Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18702
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2205-HA)
December 15, 1998
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Human and Social Development Group
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Gourde (G)
(December 1990)
US$1.00         =         G 5.00
US$0.20         =         G 1.00
(June 1998)
US$1.00         =        G 16.5
US$0.061         =        G 1.00
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DG        Directeur General
FAES      Fonds d'Assistance Economique et Sociale
GoH       Government of Haiti
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
MARNDR Ministere de l'Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles et du
Developpement Rural
MEF       Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
MENJS    Ministere de l'Education nationale, de la Jeunesse et des
Sports
MIS       Management Information System
MSPP      Ministere de la Sante Publique et de la Population
MTPTC   Ministere des Travaux publics, des Transports et des
Communications
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO      Pan American Health Organization
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SNEP      Service National d'eau Potable
Vice President:   Shahid Javed Burki, LCRVP
Director:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, LCC3C
Manager:         Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Task Manager:   Elizabeth Waters, LCC3C



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE .....................................                                  .3
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                .5
Introduction                                         .5
Project Objectives                                      .6
Implementation Experience and Results                               .7
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned                              .8
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .10
A. Project Objectives .10
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .12
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation .18
D. Project Sustainability .20
E. Bank Performance .22
F. Borrower Performance .23
G. Assessment of Project Outcome .24
H. Future Operations .24
I. Key Lessons Learned .24
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .25
A. Table I         Summary of Assessment ........................................             26
B. Table 2         Related Bank Loans ........................................              27
C. Table 3         Project Timetable ........................................               28
D. Table 4         Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............ 28
E. Table 5         Key Indicator for Project Implementation .............................. 29
F. Table 6         Key Indicator for Project Operation .................................... 30
G. Table 7         Studies Included Project ........................................        30
H. Table 8A        Project Costs ........................................                    31
1. Table 8B        Project Financing ........................................               31
J. Table 9         Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................  31
K. Table 10        Status of Legal covenants ........................................         32
L. Table 11        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................... 33
M. Table 12        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................  33
N. Table 13        Bank Resources: Missions ........................................            34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



2
PART III: APPENDIXES.
A. FAES 11 pre-appraisal Mission Aide - Memoire* .................................... 35
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ....................................                 52
C. Geographic distribution of FAES Investments ....................................   57
D. Map of Haiti ....................................                                       58
*As all FAES funds were committed by April 1997, at the time of the last supervision mission, it was
deemed appropriate to include in the ICR the Aide-Memoire from the December 1997 pre-appraisal
mission for FAES 11.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,-



3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL FUND PROJECT (Cr. 2205-HA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic and Social
Fund Project in Haiti, for which Credit 2205 - HA in the amount of SDR 7,900,000 or
US$11.3 million equivalent was approved on January 17, 1991 and the Credit Agreement
was made effective on May 21, 1991.
The loan was closed on June 30. 1998, three years after the original closing date of
June 30, 1995. It is expected to be fully disbursed, and the last disbursement is expected
to take place on October 31, 1998. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB).
The ICR was prepared by Elizabeth Waters of the Caribbean Country Management
Unit of the Latin America and Caribbean Region and reviewed by Orsalia
Kalantzopoulos, Director of LCC3C, Xavier Coll, Director of LCSHD, Jamil Salmi,
Country Sector Leader of LCSHD, and David Warren, Operations Specialist, LCSHD.
Preparation of this ICR was begun after the Bank's final supervision mission in April
1997 and the Bank's pre-appraisal mission of FAES II in December 1997. It is based on
material in the project files and interviews in Haiti. The borrower contributed to the



4
preparation of the ICR by commenting on the draft ICR, contributing views reflected in
the FAES II pre-appraisal mission aide-memoire (Appendix A), and preparing its own
evaluation of the project's preparation and execution (Appendix B).



5
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
(Cr. 2205 - HA)
HAITI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Among the major challenges facing Haiti in 1990, after several years of political
unrest and economic decline, were the need to instill hope among the Haitian people and
to root democracy firmly in institutional practice throughout the country, while
simultaneously addressing the urgent needs of the poor via quick relief efforts during the
transition period to political and economic stability.
2.    The Bank has supported economic and social sector projects in Haiti since 1956.
Prior to the Economic and Social Fund (FAES: Fonds d'Assistance Economique et
Sociale) project, the Bank financed three projects in the health, education and water
supply/sanitation sectors in Haiti: the Education IV-A Project (Cr. 1592-HA approved in
1985 for US$ 10 million), the Health and Population Project (Cr. 2085-HA approved in
1990 for US$28.2 million), and the Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2052-HA
approved in 1990 for US$15.2 million). The first loan helped finance the GoH's basic
education reform, initiate a reform of the vocational/technical training system, and
strengthen the management of the education sector. The purpose of the second project,
which is still active, is to improve access to basic health care services and support
interventions to address the impact of the TB and AIDS epidemic. The third project,
which is also still active, is strengthening water management, improving the supply of
drinking water in Port-au-Prince, and developing a sanitation plan for the capital's
metropolitan area.
3.    Concurrent with the Economic and Social Fund Project, the Bank-funded
Emergency Economic Recovery Project (Cr. 2670-HA approved in 1994 for US$40
million) and Employment Generation Project (Cr. 2765-HA approved in 1995 for US$50
million) also supported the GoH's efforts to combat poverty. The former financed
rehabilitation and maintenance for the agriculture, energy and infrastructure sectors, and
provided employment and income opportunities for the poor. The latter provided short-
term employment to people in extreme poverty, improved seriously deteriorated
infrastructure, and strengthened the capacity of institutions to manage small projects.



6
Two projects currently under preparation will perpetuate such support to the GoH: the
Basic Education Project (Cr. 29389-HA, for US$28 million), which will improve the
quality and equity of basic education services; and FAES II (US$25 million), which will
continue to finance small projects in poor communities, with an emphasis on promotion,
targeting and the sustainability of investments (Table 2).
Project Objectives
4.    As defined in the Development Credit Agreement dated February 4, 1991, the
main objectives of the Economic and Social Fund project (Cr. 2205. - HA) were to assist
the Borrower in: (i) establishing FAES as a means of responding efficiently and in a
decentralized manner to the basic needs of the nation's poor through non-governmental
organizations, including cooperatives, organized community groups and other grass-roots
organizations; (ii) strengthening health care, nutrition and education services (primarily
for infants and pregnant and lactating women) and providing physical infrastructure
addressing the needs of the poorest population; (iii) providing an effective channel for
required donor financing and coordination of scattered domestic efforts; and (iv)
strengthening the capabilities of FAES and delegated entities for project preparation and
implementation. The project combined such diverse activities as: civil works; provision
of equipment and supplies; support to epidemic control, immunization, and adult literacy
training programs; construction of water supply systems, sewerage systems and latrines;
and advisory services to communities, for a total project cost of US$23.7 million, of
which US$ 1 1.3 million equivalent (SDR 7,900,000) were to be creditedL by IDA.
5.    The project objectives, though clearly stated and consistent with the GoH's
economic and social policies as well as with the Bank's country strategy for Haiti, were
broad in scope and the strategies to achieve them resulted in a complex and very
demanding project, considering that FAES was a new agency with limited capacities at
the outset.
6.    Key loan covenants expected to promote the achievement of project objectives
included: (i) employing qualified fixed-term staff satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) identifying,
appraising and implementing subprojects under terms set forth in the Operational
Manual. Notwithstanding the fact that audits were consistently overdue, the Borrower's
compliance with all loan covenants was highly satisfactory. No major gaps in key
positions occurred during the project. The steering committee met regularly and fostered
inter-institutional collaboration in addressing implementation obstacles, which was one of
the few examples of successful public-private collaboration in Haiti. However, the
targeting and impact studies were seriously postponed.



7
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    As FAES was basically demand-driven, there were no quantitative targets for
numbers of different kinds of projects at the outset. Nearly all civil works, equipment and
supplies financed were completed or procured: out of the 349 projects financed by IDA at
completion date, 310 were completed, 34 were in final stages, and only 5 had been
abandoned. In the health and nutrition sector, 10 nutrition projects were implemented, 5
health facilities were rehabilitated and 9 were constructed, equipment was provided for 5
health centers, 4 preventive health programs were supported, and 24 small water supply
systems as well as 69 small sewerage systems and latrines were built or repaired. In the
education sector, 10 primary school facilities were rehabilitated and 24 were constructed,
furniture and equipment were provided for 149 school facilities, education materials were
provided for 21 schools and 2 training centers, and support was given to one literacy and
one training program. In the infrastructure sector, 9 road projects (bridges) and 5
agricultural projects were implemented. Overall, the project had a positive impact on the
welfare of most client communities. Technical assistance was provided to FAES for
several key studies, as planned; however, funds for technical assistance to weak grass-
roots organizations were not disbursed.
8.    The project was implemented over a seven-year period, including a three-year
extension due exclusively to a complete suspension of activities in October 1991 because
of a military coup. Following the relaunching of the project in April 1995, smooth
project implementation was affected temporarily by factors such as: (i) the limited
institutional capacities of FAES; (ii) deficiencies of several firms contracted to manage
civil works activities; (iii) delays in the disbursement of IDA funds; and (iv) the limited
institutional capacities and commitments of key line ministries. However, as management
systems rapidly became more efficient and effective, the project was able to disburse
completely over a three-year period, faster than initially foreseen when the credit was
reactivated in 1995, and FAES became a critical source of funding for poor communities.
Overall, given the special circumstances of Haiti during the last seven years (the extreme
poverty, the destructive impact of both the coup and the international embargo, the
restoration of a fragile democracy, extremely weak institutional capacity at every level of
the Government, etc.), the project has been quite successful.
9.    Bank Performance. Overall, Bank performance was marginally satisfactory at the
identification. preparation and appraisal stages, and highly satisfactory at the supervision
stage. The Bank responded quickly and effectively to the GoH's request for assistance in
identifying project components and procedures, and several characteristics of the project
were the result of its conditionalities. While appraisal was thorough in some aspects,
technical studies and cost estimates were weak, and insufficient attention was paid to (i)
promotion and targeting strategies, (ii) subproject sustainability, recurrent costs and
maintenance issues, and (iii) the need for intensive mronitoring and follow-up during
project execution. The Bank paid a relatively high level of attention to the project after
appraisal, with over 40 weeks of staff inputs in the 12 months between appraisal and



8
effectiveness. Supervision missions involving 101 weeks of staff inputs were consistently
conducted from December 1994 until project completion; five missions were conducted
in 1995 alone, during the relaunching period after the return of the legitimate
Government from exile. Bank supervision was effective in diagnosing the most visible
underlying constraints, and project inputs were closely monitored; however, funds were
not always made available on time, and project impact and policy targets were unevenly
evaluated.
10.   Borrower Perbrmcance. The performance of the Borrower during project
preparation was satisfactory, and initial commitment to the project was strong. With the
arrival of President Aristide in 1991, however, the launching of activities was postponed
due to a disagreement that arose concerning the position of DG. Borrower performance
varied during the course of the project, but was generally satisfactory, as FAES was
allowed to operate with a minimum of interference from GoH. While interinstitutional
coordination improved gradually and FAES was able to sign memoranda of
understanding with several line ministries and para-public bodies, it remained generally
weak, and Board meetings focussed more on identifying and addressing common
obstacles to the efficient delivery of project outputs and less on the linkages between the
subprojects and achieving policy targets.
11.   Project Outcome. The overall project results were highly satisfactory, as
practically all output objectives were met. Although specific outcome/impact indicators
were not built into subproject designs, there is evidence of reduced overcrowding and
improved learning in schools, better health care due to upgraded facilities, reduced
incidence of infectious diseases due to vaccination campaigns and new or rehabilitated
water supply systems, and strengthened capacity of FAES to manage multisectoral
initiatives.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The GoH has retained FAES to act as implementing agency for several new
projects, or project components. The IDB continues to support civil works and other
activities under a US$23 million FAES II project, and some bilateral donors have also
indicated interest. The Project Concept Document for IDA's FAES II Project has been
prepared. It is recognized that there has been a total breakdown of social services in Haiti
in recent years, and that institutional strengthening efforts to reconstruct the social sector
ministries are likely to take years; in this context, FAES is now serving a vital need in
Haiti as a large source of community-based financing and the only institution that directly
addresses poverty. As a result, the rationale for a follow-up FAES project is clear.
13.   Several key lessons emerge from the project: (i) project design must incorporate
adequate institutional measures aimed at strengthening the implementing agency from the
beginning ; (ii) thorough integration of project implementation units and activities (e.g.,
promotion, evaluation, control and monitoring) within the implementing agency increases
the probability of objectives being achieved and sustained; (iii) given the poor



9
performance of several firms in implementing or supervising civil works, new options for
the monitoring of works and ex-ante/ex-post evaluation of firms must be considered and
piloted; (iv) specific project outcome and impact measures in addition to input and output
indicators should be established during design, consistently monitored, and evaluated as
part of the project to determine project achievement and impact; (v) project success in a
community setting is consistently due to shared leadership at the project
identification/preparation stage, strong community participation at all phases of the
project cycle, and the capacities for self-reliance to be found within the community.



10
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
I.    Among the major challenges facing Haiti in 1990. after several years of political
unrest and economic decline, were the need to instill hope among the I-laitian people and
to root democracy firmly in institutional practice throughout the country. while
simultaneously addressing the urgent needs of the poor via quick relie' ef'forts durilng the
transition period to political and economic stability. In this context, the Economllic and
Social Fund (FAES) was established by the Government of Haiti (GolI) as an
administratively and financially autonomous project financing body to achieve a mission
whichi, as stated in the decree creating the agency, is "to finance short-term projects with
a highl labor component to improve the living conditions of low-income populations in
urban and rural areas and increase their productive potential".
2.    The FAES project was designed as a US$23.7 million operation, to include a
subproject component (US$21.3 million) and an institutional development component
(US$2.4 million). The project, for which Credit 2205-HA in the amount of SDR
7,900,000 (US$11.3 million equivalent) was approved on January 17, 1991 and signied on
1-F'ebruary 4, 1991 (three days prior to Presidenit Aristide's inauguration), sought to enable
the newly-elected Gol-I to meet its poverty alleviation and political objectives. As
definied in the Development ('redit Agreemlient dated February 4,1991, the objectives of
the project were to assist the Borrower (Gol l) in: (i) establishing FAES as a means of
responding efficiently and in a decenitralized maniner to the basic needs of the nation's
poor through non-goverinmenital organiizationis. including cooperatives, organized
communlity groups and othler grass-roots organizations; (ii) strengthening health care,
nutrition and education services (primilarily lor intfants and pregnant and lactating women)
and providing physical intrastructure addressing the needs of the poorest population; (iii)
providing an effective channiel lor required donor financing and coordination of scattered
domestic eltorts; and (iv) strenigthleniilng the capabilities of and delegated entities for
project preparation and implemiientLationi.
3.    Tlhe approaclhes outlinied ullder these objectives were broadly concordant with the
Bank's country strategy tor 1-laiti, whiichi aimed to: (i) alleviate poverty by providing
assistance via selected investmilenits in critical social services, such as health, nutrition and
education directed towards the low-income population, emphasizing project management
and institutional development; (ii) provide limited support for the productive sectors to
arrest the decline in the productive base; and (iii) finance projects designed to prevent
fuirther deterioration of physical facilities and the environment. However, the objectives,
though clearly stated. were broad in scope and the strategies to achieve them resulted in a
complex and very demanding project: in addition to an institutional development
component, the project comprised a subproject component involving activities to be



I1
implemented in several sectors by a new agency with limited capacities. This component
combined such diverse activities as: civil works; provision of equipment and supplies;
support to epidemic control, immunization, and adult literacy training programs;
construction of water supply systems, sewerage systems and latrines; and advisory
services to communities.
4.    The IDA credit for the subproject component (US$10 million) was to finance
the following: (i) health projects (subtotal: US$6.4 million), including construction and
rehabilitation of health centers with an emphasis on primary health care facilities in rural
areas, provision of equipment and essential drugs, support to epidemic control,
immunization, day care and nutrition programs for preschool children and pregnant and
lactating women, construction of small water supply systems, and small sewerage
systems and latrines; (ii) education projects (subtotal: US$2.5 million) including primary
school construction and rehabilitation, primary school furniture and equipment,
textbooks, and support to informal training programs and adult literacy programs
targeting women involved in businesses; and (iii) rural roads (subtotal: US$1 million) to
provide access for poor communities to markets, schools and health centers. Advisory
services (sub-total: US$0.1 million) were also to be provided to weak grass-roots
organizations in the poorest communities lacking the institutional capacity to identify and
carry out projects. No objective was stated relating to project sustainability, or more
specifically to the establishment of user committees or recurrent cost financing. The
estimated sectoral distribution in the project cost table reflected needs as demonstrated by
the 182 proposals already received from requesting agencies at the time of project
appraisal, as well as estimated institutional capacity in the various sectors to implement
sound projects. Expectations were expressed not in terms of the number of subprojects to
be implemented in each sector or subsector, but of average subproject or unit cost. The
costs were estimated at US$45,000 equivalent in health and education; it was estimated
that rehabilitation of rural roads would cost approximately US$ 1 0,000/km and that
construction could vary from US$20,000/km to US$40,000/km depending on the
technique used.
5.    The portion of the IDA credit for the institutional development component
(US$0.9 million) was to finance salaries and travel expenses of selected fixed-term
FAES staff, consultant services, office equipment and supplies, vehicles and
microcomputers. Technical assistance was also to be provided to FAES for: (i) the
establishment of a price data base on unit costs for construction materials and labor, as a
basis for procurement under direct contracting; (ii) the design and implementation of a
management information system, including monitoring and evaluation systems; (iii) the
completion of an operational manual including project evaluation criteria; (iv) the
efirnement of poverty targeting mechanisms; (v) the design of an impact study; and (vi)
the establishment of an accounting system.



12
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    The project gradually achieved its broad objective of assisting the GoH in: (i)
establishing an effective mechanism - the FAES - as a means of responding efficiently
and in a decentralized manner to the basic needs of the nation's poor through NGOs and
grass-root organizations; (ii) providing an effective channel for required donor financing
and coordination of scattered domestic efforts; and (iii) strengthening the capabilities of
the FAES and delegated entities for project preparation and implementation. Efficiency
was quite low during the first full year of operation, chiefly because of the limited
promotion, evaluation and supervision capacities of FAES, and of the deficiencies of
several firms contracted to manage civil works activities. Major constraints were
subsequently overcome, however, as various departments were reorganized, capabilities
for project promotion, preparation and implementation were developed, and major
bottlenecks in the project production line were reduced. From an administrative
organizational perspective, FAES did not respond in a decentralized manner to the needs
of the nation's poor, as all promotion and evaluation activities and all operations were
managed from Port-au-Prince, due to major telecommunication, transportation and other
logistical constraints throughout the country. Because FAES was established by the GoH
basically as an administratively autonomous body to finance short-term projects, it was
never made responsible for the coordination of "scattered domestic efforts," as such
coordination has understandably remained the responsibility of the GoHi itself, under
close scrutiny from Parliament.
7.    The extent to which sectoral objectives were achieved is difficult to assess for
three main reasons: (i) specific outcome/impact indicators for the project were not
described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), nor measured during or subsequent to
implementation, with the exception of sample surveys carried out in July 1996 by an
outside IDB consultant and in the fall of 1997 at FAES' request by Quisqueya
University's Institut de recherche, de fbrmation el d 'expertise-conseil en gestion
d'entreprise (IRFEC); (ii) it is often difficult to isolate the effects of a project from those
of other sectoral interventions; and (iii) implementation delays resulted in most activities
being completed only in the last two years, and thus their impact cannot yet be accurately
determined. With the above caveats, available information reveals that the project was
increasingly effective in assisting the GoH with the provision of physical infrastructure
and equipment addressing the needs of the poor population; despite implementation
delays in the first full year of project implementation (1995-1996), nearly all civil works
were completed, and almost all equipment and supplies were procured. However, funds
earmarked for technical assistance to weak grass-roots organizations were not disbursed
as envisaged.
Health Sector (Original Base Cost: US$6.4 million; Actual Total Commitment: US$5.5
million)
8.    Nutrition programs. The SAR envisioned support for an unspecified number of
nutrition programs for preschool children, and pregnant and lactating women. Due to
concerns about the complexity of administration, sustainability and accountability of



13
nutrition programs in Haiti, FAES decided to channel efforts into facilitating distribution
and logistical support to school feeding programs, as well as nutrition programs within
child care services. Projects (worth US$204,000) presented by a large religious NGO
(Mission Alpha) specializing in literacy programs were implemented in all nine regions,
and an NGO caring for the handicapped in Port-au-Prince was provided with kitchen
equipment.
9.    Health care facilities. The SAR anticipated the rehabilitation or construction of
an unspecified number of primary health care centers in rural areas. At project closing,
five facilities were rehabilitated (total cost: US$175,000) and nine were constructed (total
cost: US$405,000). The rehabilitation and construction of the facilities were intended to
provide access to modern health care and to reduce the demand for service at higher
levels of care, thereby increasing efficiency and lowering overall costs. As no impact
assessment was implemented, patient satisfaction with the upgraded or new facilities has
not been confirmed. It can only be assumed that the heavy constraints to adequately
staffing and managing new health facilities in rural Haiti were at least partly overcome,
and that the civil works contributed to the improvement of primary health care in all
selected areas.
10.   Medical equipment and supplies. The project successfully procured and delivered
furniture and medical equipment (worth US$228,000) to five health centers. Although an
important contribution, the amount of medical equipment financed by the project was
very small compared to the overall stock of old and obsolete equipment in need of
replacement. The project also provided pharmaceuticals (worth US$39,500) to a large
NGO in Port-au-Prince, and supported UNICEF (four projects worth a total of
US$439,000) immunization programs in five regions.
11.   Water Supply and Sanitation. Potable water supply has top priority, especially
for rural communities, and sanitation measures are also considered to be very important
in the prevention of communicable diseases. The main subsector objectives were to
improve operation and maintenance of the existing water supply and sanitation systems,
and to expand coverage. The project built or repaired 24 small water supply systems
(total cost: US$1.135,212) and 69 small sewerage systems and latrines (total cost:
US$2.9 million). Although impact of all these projects is difficult to assess as noted
above, there is evidence of expanded coverage and improved quality of service. Inasmuch
as maintenance plans are adhered to by the beneficiaries, the projects could contribute
considerably to the prevention of waterbome and communicable diseases in the targeted
communities.
Education Sector (Original Base Cost: US$2.5 million; Actual Commitment: US$3.8
million)
12.   Primary schoolfacilities. The SAR envisioned the rehabilitation or construction
of an unspecified number of preschool centers and primary schools, especially in rural
areas. At project closing, 10 facilities were rehabilitated (total cost: US$590,000) and 24
were constructed (total cost: US$1.7 million). The rehabilitation and construction of the



14
facilities were intended to increase access to primary education, with added space for
approximately 8,000 students; satisfaction with the upgraded or new facilities, as well as
increased enrollment, have not been confirmed, although there is reason to believe that
the rehabilitation projects have significantly enhanced the quality of existing education
services in selected communities, as overcrowding was reduced and learning
environments were improved. As for the 24 new school facilities, it can only be assumed
that some of the many constraints to adequately staffing and managing primary schools in
rural Haiti were overcome.
13.   Provision of equipment and supplies. The project successfully procured and
delivered furniture and equipment (worth US$1.1 million) to 148 pre-school and primary
school centers, in addition to one informal training center for teachers. It also provided
pedagogic material and textbooks to 21 schools and two teacher training centers (total
cost: US$260,000), as well as to the Ministry of Education for its adult literacy programs
(US$150,000), and supported an informal training program for teachers. No impact
evaluation of the textbook and training components was included in the project, but
anecdotal evidence would confirm the positive benefits on student achievement.
Infrastructure (Original Base Cost: US$1.0 million; Actual Commitment: US$243,000)
14.   The SAR anticipated the rehabilitation and/or construction of rural roads and
related drainage works, providing access for poor communities to markets, schools and
health care facilities. Original base cost allowed for the repair or construction of up to
100 km of roads. Actually, at project closing, as few as nine small road projects were
completed (total cost: US$107,000) and these were in the vicinity of Port-au-Prince and
in the North-West only. All projects were aimed at repairing or constructing bridges. No
project was envisioned at the outset, under IDA financing, in the agricuiltural sector;
however, five projects (total cost: US$136,000) dealing with irrigation, soil conservation
and stockage, were implemented in this sector. No impact study dealing with these
subprojects was conducted.
Advisory Services (Original Base Cost: US$0.1 million; Actual Commitment: US$300)
15.   The SAR envisioned the provision of advisory services to weak grass-roots
organizations in the poorest communities lacking the capacity to identify, prepare and
carry out development projects. As it turned out, such services were provided to a certain
extent in the course of regular FAES promotion activities, following the establishment of
a mechanism for prioritizing subprojects, and the adoption of promotion strategies to
target underrepresented regions and demanders requiring technical support. Practically no
IDA financing was specifically allocated to such activities.
Institutional Support (Original Base Cost: US$0.9 million; Actual Commitment:
US$974,000)
16.   The SAR depicted an institutional development component to finance salaries and
travel expenses of selected fixed-term FAES staff, consultant services, office equipment



15
and supplies, vehicles and microcomputers. At project closing, all equipment, furniture
and vehicles required for FAES to be optimally operational had been supplied as needed,
although at a third of the cost that was envisaged at the outset. However, salaries paid to
selected fixed-term FAES staff over the years were 28 percent higher than envisioned.
17.    Technical assistance was provided to FAES for several key studies, as planned.
An accounting system was established and developed, and gradually became operational.
This task was very demanding, as several components of the initial financial management
system were more adapted to institutional management than to project monitoring and
management requirements. An operational manual including standard ex-ante project
evaluation criteria was completed in 1993 and revised in 1995, and was under revision
again at the time of project closing. A formal and quantitative management information
system (MIS) was successfully set up in 1995 with support from the Ecuadorian Social
Fund; all FAES staff received training on how to feed and use the information in the
system, and the MIS was subsequently improved and adjusted by local technicians to
meet the specific needs and conditions of the FAES; however, the system was expected
to include monitoring and evaluation subsystems, and the Fund has not yet strengthened
its capacity to use monitoring information on a regular and systematic basis. A unit cost
study was conducted by a local engineering firm, and a dynamic price data base for
construction materials and labor was established in March 1997 as a basis for
procurement under direct contracting; the system allows for accelerated project
evaluation, increased transparency, and better cost management. The establishment of a
poverty map and the implementation of a planned targeting study were seriously
postponed, which delayed important promotion activities aimed at ensuring a more
equitable distribution of projects by sector, type, region and demander; the study was
finally conducted by Quisqueya University and targeting mechanisms were designed and
gradually refined as a basis for prioritizing projects. The impact study was also seriously
postponed, and information on the impact of FAES-supported projects was not readily
available until the report of a sample survey, conducted again by Quisqueya University
(IRFEC), was finalized in April 1998; in addition, supervisors produced very few final
project reports, and follow-up visits to confirm that FAES-supported schools and health
centers are operational were not carried out.
18.    The FAES was not in a position to conform its activities to the macroeconomic
policies determined by the GoH, or even to the sector policies determined by the line
ministries, as such policies had yet to be drafted and submitted to elected bodies for
approval. ' At the time of credit approval, there was no broad social and economic
program to combat poverty in Haiti, and both FAES and the GoH were acting as "ad-
hocracies," long on short-term and incremental planning and short on long-term
development strategy. FAES' financing remained exclusively demand-driven for well
over a year, as targeting mechanisms based on poverty maps and indicators had yet to be
The unelected Government's macroeconomic objectives at the time of loan approval were basically those of an
IMF stand-by program. The Government's current macroeconomic objectives are still those of a stabilization program,
and have not been approved by elected bodies. The Ministries of Education and Health were able to make their sectoral
policies known only in 1997, and such policies have yet to be approved by Parliament. The MTPTC is still in the
process of delineating its own policies.



16
used, and it could not reasonably be expected - in the short term, at least - to become
an intrinsic part of a broad social and economic program to combat poverty. In addition,
it is difficult to establish to what extent the composition of the Fund's project portfolio
reflected - at least, until recently - community preferences, as opposed to the
interests of religious leaders, politicians, NGOs, contractors, or even suppliers, as surveys
of community needs, priorities and preferences, as well as needs analyses, were not
conducted. The GoH's financial objectives were at least partially met, however, as no
significant counterpart funding was required from the Ministry of Finance, and
practically no commitment was required from the line ministries concerning the recurrent
costs associated with maintenance of the facilities to be constructed or rehabilitated.
19.   The project's contribution to the institutional development of FAES itself, and
more specifically to its establishment as a mechanism capable of assisting the
Government in responding flexibly and efficiently to the basic needs of selected poor
communities through grass-roots organizations, was quite substantial. However, FAES'
contribution to the institutional development objectives of line ministries was only
partial, as this was not a specific objective of FAES. The Fund has managed to transfer
some components of its operational technology to ministries such as MENJS and
MTPTC, and - notwithstanding the fact that some of the country's ablest civil servants
have found a "better" job with the Fund - there is no indication that the creation and
expansion of FAES has undermined the capacity of government institutions. The fact
remains, however, that while FAES has entered into formal agreements with four
ministries as well as with SNEP, there has been little genuine coordination between the
subproject programs of the Fund and those of the line ministries and of other public
bodies. If only because the efficiency and effectiveness of their management teams are so
weak, the Fund has been led to act, as a rule, on its own. In addition, FAES has
implemented projects that GoH ordinarily would not. This is either because of a lack of
resources, because the projects are requested by municipal governments, or because they
are grass-roots projects requested by private sector entities such as NGOs, religious
groups or community organizations, who have learned over decades how not to depend
on the State.
20.   Achievement of the physical objectives of the project was substantial. Whereas
rough estimations at appraisal were that approximately 200 health and education
subprojects could be implemented under IDA financing, subprojects in these sectors
actually numbered 335, including 141 social infrastructure subprojects. In addition, 14
economic infrastructure subprojects were implemented. The quality of physical outputs
(buildings and other structures) is variable, but in most cases it is acceptable, and in some
cases (e.g., clean water supply systems) it is very high. Several problems stem from the
fact that projects were often not comprehensive and had been planned in an incremental
fashion, as components of larger projects. Some structures indicate negligence on the part
of the contractors as well as a lack of vigilance on the part of the engineers hired by
FAES to supervise construction. Some schools have ventilation and lighting problems
which could have a negative effect on the health and learning abilities of children. Some
still lack a proper water supply system. Some were equipped with electrical outlets, even
when communities had no intention of using them or no power supply was to be made



17
available. Several dry latrines are mislocated, and lack of maintenance and/or proper
drainage could generate health problems for user communities.
21.   While poverty reduction was understandably negligible, as this was not an
explicit objective, the project had a positive impact on the welfare of most communities
where subprojects were executed, and succeeded in mitigating some of the most adverse
effects of the economic crisis brought about by the military coup and the international
embargo. It provided many poor communities with infrastructure, equipment and
supplies. Short-term employment was quickly generated, and this allowed the
communities to buy goods and services that were not readily accessible before.2 Clean
water supply systems and latrine have most probably contributed to a decline in the
incidence of infectious diseases. Thousands of children were provided with better school
facilities and basic school furniture and supplies. And thousands of farmers were
provided with better feeder roads and protection against soil erosion.
22.   Achievement of the objectives relating to gender issues was partial. The FAES
has yet to identify and address women's issues within its programs, to adopt a policy
regarding gender equity, to support deliberate initiatives aimed at increasing women's
participation in various decision-making processes and improving women's income
levels and socioeconomic conditions, and to build its institutional capabilities so that
gender considerations are fully integrated into policies, programs, projects and activities.
The employment-generating function of the infrastructure projects has tended to bypass
women, who represented less than 10 percent of paid workers on a typical construction
site. Characteristically, women have been expected to fetch pail after pail of water as
required by paid laborers, without being paid the usual minimum daily wage granted to
other men and women; this bias has been unfortunate, as women are usually hard
workers, who also happen to head 50 percent of all households in Haiti, and are known to
spend quite judiciously what earnings come into their hands. At least, women benefit
more than men as users of the health infrastructure delivered; health centers are visited
more by women, who need pre- and post-natal care and are responsible for their
children's health. Clean water supply systems are also used primarily by women and
girls, and it is expected that the new facilities will alleviate their hardships.
23.   Achievement of environmental objectives was negligible. Current concern with
environmental problems in rural Haiti is focused on the alarming rate of deforestation and
soil erosion: no subproject was implemented with the objective of either protecting the
remaining forests or increasing wood production. While two soil conservation
subprojects were implemented, satisfaction with these projects was not documented, and
no environmental impact assessment was conducted. Subproject proposals were to
include environmental impact assessments in relevant areas; health facilities were to be
designed so as not to contaminate the environment, and equipped with septic tanks or
improved latrines; similarly, a plan for improvement of sanitation of schools was to be
required, including latrines. However, no environmental impact assessment was ever
2 It is estimated that between 80 and 100 person/months of short-term employment were generated by each of the
155 infrastructure projects under IDA financing. Local laborers were paid minimum daily wage (currently, approx.
US$2.25).



18
conducted, and this makes it difficult to establish the extent to which environmental
objectives were achieved. While most latrines and drainage systems were built according
to specifications, it was observed that some dry latrines are poorly located, and that lack
of maintenance and/or proper drainage could generate environmental problems in several
areas, especially near schools and health centers.
24.   Achievement of objectives associated with public sector management was
partial, as already discussed (para. 19). Achievement of the objectives associated with
private sector development was also partial. FAES used a large number of small
engineering firns or contractors, who earned supervision fees (5 percent) and profits (10
percent) estimated at well over US$ 1.0 million (IDA financing only). As the vast
majority of project inputs were procured in the domestic market, employment generated
directly or indirectly by the subprojects in the short-term (e.g., provision and
transportation of local inputs) was significant, and a large proportion of the total income
generated by these subprojects wound up in the hands of importers and traders. Local and
international NGOs were also widely used as executing agencies, or as "intermediary
agencies" in the case of three large organizations. However, FAES did not fund one
single project belonging to the "directly productive" category (e.g., rotating funds for
small enterprises, breeding stock projects, agricultural and marketing cooperatives).
While directly productive projects were eligible for financing at the outset and as such
appeared on the project menu, and over 150 requests were submitted by small farmers or
entrepreneurs, this category was removed from the menu in the fall of 1995, as it did not
fit with FAES' dominant "production-line" strategy.
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
25.   Project implementation was affected by two main factors: (i) a military coup,
which led to a complete suspension of activities in October 1991, for a period of three
years; and (ii) the limited institutional capacity of FAES during the first full year of
activities (1995-1996), coupled with deficiencies of several firms contracted to manage
civil works activities. Project implementation was also partially affected by (i) delays in
the disbursement of IDA funds; and (ii) the limited institutional capacity and
commitments of key line ministries.
26.   Factors Not Subject to Government C'ontrol. FAES was established by the GoH
in 1990, under the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), and a DG was named in
June 1990 by the unelected Head of State, for a two-year period. The Credit Agreement
was signed in February 1991 and pilot projects were soon envisaged, but with the arrival
of President Aristide, the Fund's launching was postponed due to a disagreement that
arose between the financiers and the President: the latter, in opposition to the IDB and
IDA, wanted to name a new DG. By the time of the military coup in September, 1991,
the Fund had not been able to begin operations. The project was suspended until the
return of President Aristide from exile in the fall of 1994, and subproject activities started
in April 1995. Because of the coup and the international embargo that followed, the



19
project was thus implemented over a seven-year period, including a formal three-year
suspension, instead of the four-year period originally envisaged.
27.   There were delays in the disbursement of IDA funds during the first half of 1996.
The delays were so prolonged that FAES was forced to use IDB funds to cover some
expenses that would have been covered by IDA financing under normal circumstances.
Whereas approximately 70 percent of the funds allocated to the subprojects in the IDA
agreement had been committed in June 1996, only 5 percent of the IDA funds for
institutional development had been committed because the costs had been covered by
IDB financing. A redistribution of IDA funds across categories became essential in order
to enisure that the needed funds be readily available. In addition, problems related to the
limits on the size of civil works contracts allowed under direct contracting hampered the
flow of operations; in some cases, rural schools were left incomplete because of the limits
on direct contracting. Amendments were eventually made to the Credit Agreement: the
Special Account was increased from US$750,000 to US$1.5 million, and funds were
redistributed across categories.
28.   Faclors Subject to Government Control. The limited institutional capacities of the
GoH, especially the MEF and related institutions, affected project implementation. A
difficult socioeconomic environment combined with cumbersome budgetary and other
administrative procedures disrupted the pace of project implementation by straining the
smooth processing of subprojects. The uneven flow of funds to FAES resulted in delays
in the signing of civil works contracts and the paying of contractors, which limited
FAES' ability to obtain recourse in cases of contractor non-performance. These delays
also led to the postponement of related activities. The problems were due largely to the
slow turnaround time of the Banque de la Republique d 'Haiti (BRH) with regards to fund
transfers and transmission of necessary information for replenishing the Special Account,
and to problems with the Banque Nationale de Credit (BNC) regarding compliance of
agreements on the amounts of the bonds required from contractors.
29.   Factors subject to Implementing Agency Control. The limited institutional
capacity of FAES during the year that followed the relaunching of operations in April
1995, coupled with the deficiencies of several firms contracted to manage civil works
activities, affected project implementation in a significant way. While FAES increased its
operations at a rapid rate, established an MIS and profited from various technical
assistance and training activities, several problems relating to a general lack of internal
coordination, the uneven distribution of subprojects by region, bottlenecks in the
subproject cycle, insufficient attention to issues of impact and sustainability, irregular
reporting of project progress and poor accounting practices were observed. These
problems were resolved in the course of the two following years, however.
30.   As of April 30, 1996, FAES management had approved 398 subprojects, all
selected by the Promotion Department, recommended by the Evaluation Department, and
forwarded to the Supervision and Monitoring Department for implementation. As FAES
was eager to prove its effectiveness and efficiency through quick disbursment, priority
had been given to infrastructure subprojects already prepared by the demanders, located



20
in easily accessible areas, and relatively simple to implement. However, the fact that 95
percent of all demands made by public institutions had been evaluated, while the
proportion was only 19 percent for community organizations, was a clear indication of
the need to provide the latter with support for project preparation. In addition, it was
apparent from the uneven distribution of subprojects across the regions that FAES needed
a strategy for prioritizing subprojects. In the following months, some actions were taken
to ensure a more equitable distribution of subprojects by region and demander. The Fund
entered into agreements with LJNOPS and UNICEF to help identify projects in areas of
difficult access, and toyed with the idea of setting up regional offices in less accessible
areas, and conducting surveys of community needs and priorities in selected areas. A
promotion strategy was developed and projects were prioritized by taking into account
data regarding unsatisfied basic needs for each region, the sector distribution of the
budget, and the Fund's past commitments by sector and region; the results of these efforts
were reflected in the changes that occured over the following year in the distribution of
activities. At project closing, all 133 districts (Communes) have been visited and 129
have received at least one project, while projects are planned for the remaining four.
31.   During the first year of operation, major bottlenecks were identified in the
subproject cycle. At the promotion stage, a third of all the project proposals received
remained incomplete, largely because of the difficulties some demanders faced at the
community level in preparing proposals. As of May 31. 1996, some 548 subprojects (over
50 percent of all proposals submitted to the Evaluation Department) were pending
evaluation and some had been pending for as long as six months; the main cause for this
lag in project evaluations was the large number of small projects, and the lack of
sufficient and/or specialised staff to cover the workload. In addition, there were two
significant bottlenecks at the supervision and monitoring stage, that were subject to
FAES control. These were encountered at project signing and when projects were
pending a final supervision report in order to be officially completed. One of the key
reasons for the accumulation of subprojects pending contract signing to begin
implementation, or that required a final supervision report to be completed, was the lack
of sufficient supervisors; the problems were compounded by an inefficient project
document filing system and the use of traditional forms to communicate contract signing
dates. All these bottlenecks at the evaluation and implementation stages were reduced or
eliminated over the second year of operation, so that the "production line" could be made
more efficient. FAES internal efficiency is now quite high, and makes it stand out among
Haitian public institutions and even among local private development organizations. The
Fund, with its 62 employees, is now capable of evaluating up to 50 projects per month, of
approving up to 40 projects per month, and of implementing a typical infrastructure
subproject in less than 500 days on average, from promotion to completion. Its ratio of
operational costs to subprojects financed is currently in the vicinity of 10 percent, down
from 12 percent two years ago.



21
D. Project Sustainability
32.   Observations made in communities where one or several subprojects had been
completed, or were well under way, indicate that subproject success can be attributed to a
mix of factors such as: (i) shared leadership, obtained when formal and informal
community leaders submit a project of theirs to discussion. listen carefully, and seek
support from several community "influentials"; (ii) strong community participation in all
phases of the project cycle, i.e., genuine community ownership of a project intended to
meet what are perceived to be important needs; and (iii) the capacities for self-reliance to
be found within a community - an obvious requirement for project sustainability.
Insufficient attention was given by FAES to such sustainability issues.
33.   The vast majority of projects funded by FAES have operational service
components, and require maintenance. In cases where community organizations have
applied for funding, these organizations are expected to cover all recurrent costs (e.g.,
salaries, supplies, maintenance), generally through the collection of tuition or user fees,
and possibly with some support from an NGO. In cases where line ministries or NGOs
have applied for funding, they are made responsible for ensuring that the corresponding
services are committed following completion of the infrastructure works. However,
FAES has not given consistent consideration to future operating costs. One-time
arrangements have often been made for the Fund to provide schoolbooks or other
supplies (social assistance projects), but long-term arrangements for the provision of such
supplies or for the financing of recurrent costs - by the beneficiaries themselves, by the
GoH. by NGOs or even by external donors - have not been an integral part of each
project. However, the provision of small training or other enabling programs to
community groups, to improve the sustainability of projects (e.g., maintenance of
infrastructure), has been initiated.
34.   It is too soon to determine whether or not the line ministries and the municipal
governments, which in Haiti as in other developing countries face heavy budgetary
constraints, will actually provide the required operational services and project
maintenance in cases where subproject ownership rests with them. It is also too soon to
establish how maintenance of FAES subprojects and follow-up education and health
services will compare to those provided by line ministries to their own projects. Part of
the answers will probably lie with those NGOs involved with FAES-funded subprojects
who are known to generally abide by the terms of the commitments they make. The
major problems will most probably be with those communities that have not claimed
project ownership through heavy involvement at the planning and implementation stages,
or with those religious leaders who have not paid sufficient attention to the viability of
their pet projects.
35.   In any case, while subprojects aimed at altering the resource base, promoting
agricultural modernization and the like, could eventually be sustained solely with local
resources, such self-reliance is not to be expected - at least in the foreseeable future -



22
in the case of projects aimed at improving basic health, nutrition and education services.
For one thing, tuition and user fees are often hard to collect in very poor communities,
even when they appear to be quite reasonable. Second, lasting improvements in the
education sector cannot be achieved without improvements in the performance of
teachers, and in the private sector, teachers' salaries alone should presently be tripled to
approximately US$60 per month - conditional on training and performance - if this
sector is to both retain its better teachers and make full-time teaching a real option for
others. This would mean a payroll of US$540 per year per teacher, no more than a quarter
of which could possibly be financed by school fees at their current levels. It is obvious
that improved local services will be far too expensive for Haitian communities to finance
out of local contributions, and that such services will have to be financed by foreign
sources, either by charities, bilateral aid, multilateral grants and loans, or the remittances
of Haitians abroad.
E. Bank Performance
36.   Overall. Bank performance was marginally satisfactory at the identification,
preparation and appraisal stages, and highly satisfactory at the supervision stage. The
Bank, which had played a major role in the establishment and orientation of the Fund
itself, responded quickly and effectively to the GoH's request for assistance in identifying
project components and procedures, and several characteristics of the project were the
result of its conditionalities. The Bank determined at the outset that the disbursement
ceiling would be set at US$50,000 per subproject, and that a subproject could not take
more than 18 months to implement. Later, it determined that, while the requirement for
local counterpart financing should be waived, beneficiaries and intermediary agencies
would still be expected to contribute free labor and materials. The Bank, along with the
IDB, also determined that three types of subprojects should be eligible for financing, and
that disbursements could be made on the basis of narrowly defined subproject outputs.
37.   Identification, preparation and appraisal were thorough in some respects, as
evidenced by inclusion in the SAR of criteria for project eligibility in the health and
education sector, as well as broad guidelines on subproject monitoring. However,
technical studies and cost estimates were weak, and insufficient attention was paid to: (i)
promotion and targeting strategies aimed at avoiding overconcentration of subprojects in
a limited number of geographical areas, at the request of unelected local influentials; (ii)
subproject sustainability, recurrent costs and maintenance issues; and (iii) the need for
intensive monitoring and follow-up during project execution. In addition, the Bank did
not adequately incorporate lessons learned from previous socioeconomic development
projects in Haiti. Lessons included the importance of: (i) establishing a clear hierarchy of
objectives and indicators to monitor impact; (ii) paying attention to institutional and
bureaucratic arrangements, including possible conflicting interests and power sharing
between such stakeholders as community groups, NGOs, local and central governments;
(iii) addressing underlying constraints in addition to implementation symptoms; and (iv)
paying attention to building strong institutional capacity during the first year of operation.
It should be added that the 58-month delay between appraisal and project resumption in



23
1995, during which the project was not reappraised, meant parts of the SAR were
outdated when disbursement began.
38.   The Bank paid a relatively high level of attention to the project after appraisal,
with over 40 weeks of staff inputs in the 12 months between appraisal and effectiveness.
Supervision missions involving 1O 1 weeks of staff inputs were consistently conducted
from September 1994 until project completion; five missions were conducted in 1995
alone, during the relaunching period after the return of the legitimate Government from
exile. During supervision, the teams not only identified obstacles to implementation, but
diagnosed underlying constraints and offered advice on how to overcome them, which
was considered valuable by FAES management. Changes in task management between
appraisal and effectiveness, and then during the project, had no clear negative effect on
implementation. However, while project inputs were closely monitored, funds were not
always made available on time, and project impact and policy targets were unevenly
evaluated.
F. Borrower Performance
39.   The performance of the Borrower during project preparation was satisfactory. The
GoH submitted a short proposal aimed at enhancing public sector efforts to alleviate
poverty by way of job creation and social assistance, while rehabilitating and expanding
the country's social infrastructure. The fact that the project was ambitious in scope and
size was probably justified given the need to reverse the extensive deterioration of the
social sectors. Initial GoH commitment to the project was strong. With the arrival of
President Aristide, however, the launching of activities was postponed due to a
disagreement that arose between the financiers and the President, who wanted to name a
new DG. By the time of the coup in September 1991, the Fund had not received sufficient
support from the Government to begin operations. Government commitment to the
project resumed in 1995, long after President Aristide's return from exile, with the
nomination of his former Prime Minister as DG. Equipment lists were prepared, and most
of the school and health facilities to be built or upgraded were identified prior to the first
disbursement.
40.   The performance of the Borrower varied during project execution, with some
cumbersome administrative procedures occasionally disrupting the pace of subproject
implementation, but was generally satisfactory, as FAES was allowed to operate with a
minimum of interference from GoH. Actually, FAES performed best in those areas
where it exercised the most control over its activities, especially as the line ministries
were weak and unable to provide the Fund with any guidance of a technical or
administrative nature. While interinstitutional coordination improved gradually and
FAES was able to sign memoranda of understanding with several ministries and para-
public bodies, it remained generally weak, and Board meetings chaired by the Minister of
Finance focused more on identifying and addressing conmmon obstacles to the efficient
delivery of project outputs and less on the linkages between the subprojects and
achieving policy targets. Finally, notwithstanding the fact that audit reports were



24
consistently overdue, the Borrower's compliance with all loan covenants was highly
satisfactory (Table 10).
G. Assessment of Project Outcome
41.   The overall project results were highly satisfactory, as practically all output
objectives were met. Although specific outcome/impact indicators were not built into
subproject designs, there is evidence of reduced overcrowding and improved learning in
schools, better health care in upgraded facilities, reduced incidence of infectious diseases
among users of new or rehabilitated water supply systems, and strengthened capacity of
FAES to manage multisectoral initiatives.
H. Future Operations
42.   The GoH has retained FAES to act as implementing agency for several new
projects or project components, which in itself is an indication of the Fund's reputation as
an efficient and effective institution to address poverty issues. The IDB continues to
support civil works and other activities under a US$23 million FAES II project, and some
bilateral donors have also indicated interest in providing financing. In May, 1996, the
Bank prepared a Project Concept Document for a Second FAES Project, and revisited the
concept following the midterm review of the current project. It was noted that social
funds were originally envisioned as temporary institutions set up to address emergency
situations, that would eventually close down as social sector ministries became more
efficient and productive. It was recognized, however, that there has been a total
breakdown of social services in Haiti in recent years, and that institutional strengthening
efforts to reconstruct the social sector ministries are likely to take years. In this context,
the FAES is now serving a vital need in Haiti as a large source of community-based
financing and the only institution that directly addresses poverty. As a result, the
rationale for a follow-up FAES project is clear.
I. Key Lessons Learned
43.   The key lessons learned from the implementation experience of this project are:
(a)   It is unreasonable to expect an investment project which disburses on the basis of
narrowly-defined outputs and contributes a marginal amount to overall sector spending to
effect wide-reaching policy reform.
(b)    Project success in a community setting is usually due to shared leadership at the
project identification/preparation stage, strong community participation in all phases of
the project cycle, and the capacities for self-reliance to be found within the community.



25
(c)   Project design must incorporate adequate institutional measures aimed at
strengthening the implementing agency right from the beginning.
(d)   Thorough integration of project implementation units and activities (e.g.,
promotion, evaluation, supervision and monitoring) within an implementing agency
increases the probability of objectives being achieved and sustained.
(e)   Given the poor performance of several firms in implementing or supervising civil
works, new options for the monitoring of works and ex-ante/ex-post evaluation of firms
must be seriously considered and piloted.
(f)   Specific project outcome and impact measures in addition to input and output
indicators should be established during design, consistently monitored, and evaluated as
part of the project to determine project achievement and impact.



26
Table I: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial     Negligible  N/Applicable
Macro policies                  O                O           O          O
Sector policies                 O                O           O 
Financial objectives            O                *           0          O
Institutional development                       ID O         O
Physical objectives             *                0           0
Poverty reduction               0                            El
Gender issues                                    * 
Other social objectives         0                O           O          D
Environmental objectives        0         -                  3 *
Public sector management         0               *           0          0
Private sector development      O                *           0          O
B. Project Sustainability           Likely                  Unlikely           Uncertain
Social Assistance             O                        O
Social Infrastructure          l                        0                  U
Economic Infiastucture        0                         0                  O
C. Bank Performnance               Highly                  Marginally          Deficient
Satisfactory            Satisfactory
identification and preparation  Cl                                          0
Appraisal                     0                         *                  0
Supervision                   *                         0                  0
D. Borrower Perfonmance           Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                   0                         U                  Q
Implementation                0                         U                  0
Civil Works                   0                                            0 
Covenant compliance           *                         0                  0
E. Assessment of Outcome   Iy             Margnaly         Unsatisfacto       Highly
SatSatisfact  oatisfactory                       Unsatisfactory



27
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                    Purpose                Year of              Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Education IV-A      To help finance the GoH's basic          1985      Completed. Credit
(Cr. 1592-HA)           education reform, initiate a reform of            closed in 1992 (21%
the vocationalVtechnical training                 undisbursed)
system, and strengthen the education
sector management
2. Health & Population   To implement a comprehensive heath     1990      Active (47%
(Cr. 2085-HA)           service model to better reach the poor,           undisbursed)
and to support a national AIDS and
tuberculosis program aiming to
decrease Haiti's high tuberculosis
incdence
3. Water Supply & Sanit. To strengthen CAMEP, improve the       1990      Active (37%
(Cr. 2052-HA)           supply of drinking water in Port-au-              undisbursed)
Prince, and develop a sanitation plan
for the capital" metropolitan area
Concurrent Operatons
1. Education V (Cr.    To maintain the gains made in basic      1991      Cancelled in 1994.
2264-HA)                education and prepare for future                  Credit closed in
progress, through sector policy and               1995 (100%
investment policy and investment                  undisbursed)
program development, quality
improvement, and resource
management
2. Emergency Economic  To finance rehabilitation and            1994      Completed. Credit
Recovery (Cr. 2670-HA)  maintenance for agriculture, energy               closed in 1995 (fully
and infrastructure sectors, and to                disbursed).
provide employment and income
opportunities for the poor
3. Employment           To provide short-term employment to     1995      Completed. Credit
Generation (Cr. 2765-    people in extreme poverty, improve               closed in 1997 (2%
HA)                     seriously deteriorated infrastructure,            undisbursed)
and strengthen capacity of the
institutions to manage small projects            f
Foilowing Operations
1. Basic Education     To improve the quality and equity of               Under preparation
(Cr. 29389-HA)          basic education services.
2. FAES II (Cr. ??)     To finance small projects in poor                 Under preparation
communities, with an emphasis on
promotion, targeting and sustainability
of investments.



28
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned                        Actual Date
Identification                                   n/a                                nla
Preparation                                      n/a                            April, 1990
Appraisal                                    June, 1990                         June. 1990
Negociations                     I               n/a                                nla
Board Presentation                               n/a                         17 January, 1991
Signing                                          nia                         4 February, 1991
Effectiveness                                    n/a                i          21 Mav. 1991
ProjectCompletion                      31 December, 1997(1)                    30 June, 1998
Loan Closing                              30 June. 1998 (2)         i          30 June, 1998
(1) Initial date was 31 December, 1994, as per Credit A.2reement of 4 February, 1991. Chanoed as per kmendment of 19 July, 1995
(2) As formally revised on 15 June, 1995. Initial date was 30 June, 1995.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
IDA   FY            91        92       93         94        95    1  96         97   i  98
Appraisal Estimate       0.6       3.6      7.1        9.3       11.3   i
Actual               i  0.7        0.7      0.7        0.7       0.7        4.1      9.5   |  10.7
Actual as%of Estimate    117%     19.4%  i 9.9%       7.5%      6.2%   I 36.3%    84.1%  | 94.7%



29
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in              Estimated at         I    Modified         Actual committed
SAR/MOP                    I   Appraisal (IDA)           (as of 07/97)    (at project closing)
l.  Project Component                        US$10  MN                  US$9.8  M          US$9.57  M
a)  Health and Nutrition                    i US$6.4  M                ! US$4.5  M         US$5.53 M
* Nutrition programs for pre-school children,  i                                            10 nutrition projects
pregnant and lactating mothers                                          104 projects       completed
Rehabiliation and construction of primarv   Numbers not specified     x US$45,000        5 facilities rehabilitated
health care infrastructure in rurai areas    Approx. 142 projects      j                   and 9 constructed
* Provision of equipment/supplies (incl. drugs)   (Average project cost                    Equipment provided for 5
 Support to epidemic control programs       estimated at US$45,000)                       health centers and drugs
* Support to immunization programs                                                         suoplied (1 proiect)
* Support to lEC and training programs                                                       p preventive programs
* Construction of small water supply systems    '24 WSS built/repaired
* Small sewerage systems and latrines                                                      69 SS&L built/repaired
b)  Education                                US$2.5  million            US$4.0  million   US$3.8  M
* Rehabilitation and construction of pre-schooi                                             10 facilities rehabilitated
i centers and primary schools                  Numbers not specified                        and 24 constructed
|  Provision of primarv school furniture and   Approx. 56 projects       100 projects         urniwure:equipment
equipment                                    (Average project cost      x US$45,000        orovided for 149 facilities
|. Provision of pedagogic material i textbooks  estimated at USS45,000)                     Materials for 21 schools
|f* Support to informal training programs                                                   and 2 training centers
f .Literacy and vocational training programs                                               Support for I literacy and
targeting women involved in businesses                                                      I urainung program
l)  Infrastructure                             US$1.0  m                 US$1.2 M            US$0.243  M
Rural roads (and related drainage works) giving   Up to 100 km of roads    I Up to 120 kn of    9 road projects (bridges)
access of poor communities to markets, schools   (Cost per km estimated at   rural roads
!and health centers                            US$10,000 - US$40,000                        ; asrcultural projects
d)  Advisory services                        US$0.1  M                  US$0.1  M          USSO.003  M
Provision of advisory services to weak grass-                                            Services provided in the
roots organizations in the poorest communties                                              course of regular ESF
that iack the capacity to carry out projects                                               promotion activities
11. Institutional Support Component          US$0.9  M                 iUS$1.0 M           US$0.974  M
a)  Fixed investment                          US$0.15  M                US$0.1  M          US$0.055 M
Office equipment and supplies, vehicles.
Iomputers
b)  Salaries and operating expenses          US$0.64  M                 US$0.8  M          US$0.822 M
* Salaries of selected Fixed term ESF staff
 Consultant services
I c)  Technical assistance to the ESF         US$0.1  M                 iUS$0.1  M          US$0.097  M
* Establishment of a price data base on unit costs                                         * Unit cost study done
for construction matenals and labor                                                        and once data established
Design and implementation of a management                                                * IS implemented, with
information system. including M&E systems                                                  skeleton of M&E svstem
* Completion of an operating manual including                                              *ooerating manual
proJect evaluation criteria                                                                completedandrevised
* Refinemenc of povertv targeting mechanisms                                               * Targeting study done
* Desi2n of an impact study                                            '                    Impact study conducted
*F Establishrnenc of an accounting system                                                  * Accounting system
established and functional



30
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Indicators for project operations were not defined in the SAR. They were not required as standard procedure
at the time of appraisal. Performance of FAES operations relating to: (i) financing; (ii) project flows; (iii)
direct impact, and (iv) efficiency of operations, was to be monitored through the MIS. Some performance
indicators have actually been incorporated into the MIS, a cost evaluation program has been completed, and the
social evaluation process has reputedly been strengthened.
j12. An effort was to be made to collect baseLine data on project impact at the community level through the MIS,
and to provide additional baseline data by way of a targeting study. A targeting mechanism has actually been
developed. which provides for baseline data at the macro level. Baseline data at the subproject level, although
available, often lack validity and/or reliability.l
Table 7: Studies included in the Project
Study                                  Status                Impact of study
1. Poverty targeting srudy to provide means and    Completed: 1996             Substantial
ways for enhancing the targeting of the use of
FAES resources, and to establish a svstem to
evaluate the performance of FAES in reaching the
poor in various sectors and subpopulations. The
study was to be carried out during the preparation
phase of the project
2. Study on impact of the approved subprojects    Not done. Study was replaced by   Negligible
on the corresponding beneficiary communities.    ex-post sample survey conducted
bv IRFEC in 1997-1998, and
dealing basically with project
ownership and sustainability



31
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                     Actual
Item                          (US$  million)                 (US$ million) (1)
Local  r Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign    Total
i1. Institutional Support                  1.999       .428 | 2.427      3.307         .261 | 3.568
(a) Fixed investmnent                    .022        .255 |     .277 l     .416 -    .083 |    .499
(b) Operating expenses                   1.538 j     .083      1.621 | 2.251         .048 i 2.299
(c) Technlical assistance           i     .239 i     .090 1,    .329 j     .640      .130      .770
(d) Unallocated                           .200 1       --- i    .200 1       -           j-
2. Sub-Proj'ects                          16.897      4.333    21.230    19.638          --    19.638
2 .   _ _ S u - r o e t                          r__  _ _    _ _ _  _   _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
(a) Health sub-projects                  7.620 I   2.773    10.393 l   6.725           --     6.725
* Water supply                       3.214      2.143 1   5.357       1.381        ---    1.381
* Basic sanitation                   2.392       .126      2.518      4.139         _     4.139
* Primarv Health Care/Nutrition      2.014       .504   i 2.518  !  1.205          i       1.205
(b) Education sub-projects              3.960        .990      4.950 1   7.956        ---    7.956
l  (c) Economic infrastructure              5.130        .570      5.700 i   4.957        ---    4.957
I          _            _ _____    __    ._ ______  - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __  __ _ _ _ _ _ _
(d) Technical assistance to orgs.         .187         ---      .187 |       -         --        ---
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   18.896 '   4.761    23.657 i  22.945         .261    23.206
Table 8B: Project Financing
Il                  II   Appraisal Estimates (US$M)                         Actual (US$M)
Source            Local       Foreign   !                   Local    !  Foreign
o   Costs        Costs   I   Total            Costs    I   Costs    i   Total
I1DA               ln/a                   n/a i      11.325 |       10.635          .097       10.732
IDB                          n/a          n/a 1      10.419         12.3 10         .164j      12.4741
|Beneficiaries                 n/a          n/a         1.913            (1)           (1)          (1)
TOTAL                18.896 %      4.761         23.657        22.945          .261       23.206
(1) Includes mostly in-kind contributions. Unaccounted for.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal, as this was not applicable. Project benefits were
expressed in terms of increased efficiency of social and other services, improved targeting of subsidies and  I
assistance, and formulation of strategies to protect vulnerable groups.
1.



32
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
I|   Originl  Revised
Section     Covenant   Statn       Fflfdnent   Fulfilnt                Description of covenant      I   Comments
type     .____     _______a          d    ____
Agreement: LIII Loan Number IBRD - 220SO
3.01 (c)(A) |    03          C      06130  1991|                 Transfer proceeds of Creditto ESFtocaffy i None
out the project
3.02 (a)    |    05     |   C       061301 1991                  Fill all positions of Department Directors  None
i andiESF General Director withqualified
staff acceptable to IMA; consult IDA
before replacement of any personnel
3.02 (b)         05          C    i06! 30i 199l1                 Employ qualified fixed-term statT     None
i________    __ _ _ _   _satisfactory  to  IDA
3.03             09          C                                   Borrower or ES F shaU inform IDA of anv   None
I                    -                  condition which interferes or threateas to
|  ,   '      l               interfere with project or subproject
objectives performance by ESF of its
obligations under the ESF contractual
arrangements or under Subproject
Agreements.
3.04 (a)         10          C                                   Subprojects will be identified. appraisted   None
and implemented under terms set forth in
the Operational Manual unless amended
by IDA.
3.04 (b)    I    10         CD   j09 30! Ml                      Borrower will ensure that ESF maintains  iMlanual completed
the Operational Manual until report   in 1993 only.
,  referred to in nara. 9.06 (e) of General    i because of project
Conditions is received by IDA and not to !suspension in the
amend the Operational manual without   i wake of military
IDA's approval,                       coup in SepL 1991
3.05(a)    1    09           C    j1231' 1992                     EndertakeajointBorrower/lDAiESF    INone
|            ,        i                             ' review of project progress
Ageement: LIV   Loan .Nuber  BRD - 22050
4.01 (b)   !      1         CD   I  1231 i  1991                 HaverecordsandaccountsofESF          i TheauditofFFY
independently audited                 1996 was presented
to the Bank after
some delay
Key
Convent Types:                                                  I I Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
01  Accounts/audit                                                   allocation
02  Fuiancial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries   12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy: regulatory! institutional
03  Flow and utilization of project funds                            action
04  Counterpazt funding                                         13  Other
05  Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
06  Environmental covenants                                     Status:
07  Involuntary resettlement                                    C   = covenant complied with
08  Indigenous people                                           CD  = complied with after delay
09  Monitoring, review and reporting                           _NC  = not complied with
10  Subproject implementation                                   CP  = complied with partially



33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was compliance with all pertinent Bank Operational Manual
statements throughout the project cycle.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned                Revised               Actal
project cycle                                           s40
Weeks    US$ '000    Weeks    US$ '000    Weeks  I USS 000
Through appraisal            n/a        n/a        n/a         n/a       29.9   i   46.093
Appraisal - Board  _         n/a        n/a        n/a         n/a       19.1       45.712
Board - Effectiveness    i   n/a        n/a        n/a         n/a       2113       45.172
Supervision                  nia       n/a         n/a         n/a      101.1      274.175
Completion                   5.0       12.2        ----               i  4.4        10.400
TOTAL                        n/a        n/a         n/a,       n/a       175,8  i  421.552



34
Table 13.  Bank Resources: Missions
Perfomance
I,'II   R ag  (1)   !I
I               !        1         ~~~~~~~~~~~Davs in      Specialized Staff 
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/  No. of    F eld i          Seills Staff               De         Types of
Field   I  Skills      .mp~~~Sl.s Oj
Year   Persons   (total)      Represented     I             Ob)s    Problems (2)
ldentification                         NO DATA AVAILABLE                    !   nia       n/a          n/a
Preparaton                  04/90      6       NO DATA AVAILABLE                n/a       aia   ;      n/a
Preappraisal              I            NO DATA AVAILABLE                        n/a       n/a          n/a
Appraisal                 i 06/90      5       NO DATA AVAILABLE    !   n/a               wia          n/a
Pre-Negoiations                        NO DATA AVAILABLE                    1   n/a       nla          n/a
Pre-Board                              NO DATA AVAILABLE                        n/a       ma           n/a
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pre-Effectiveness         i            NO DATA AVAILABLE                    I   n/a       n/a          n/a
Supervision: I              06/91      3        0          MIG; ED; PH           1         2          _ 
II              09/94          NO DATA AVAILABLE                     U                    -_
m1            101/95      2'         0            EC; MG             U         U          --
rv               03/95     2         0            EC;MG              U         U           --
V               05/95                             NO DATA AVAILABLE
II avl        108/95                              NO DATA AVAILABLE
ViI              09195      2        16           EC; OP             S        --            M
vm             i 01/96      1         6              EC             --         --
Ex             1 06/96     4         24      EC; EC; EG; MGi    S              S            D
(vid-Term Review)
X                10/96     21        8           MG;EC               s         s            F
.YI            1 04/97     2         12           MG; EC             S    I S           Otherdonors
XII              09/97                             NO DATA AVAILABLE
Completion                  05/98      1        6              MG               S          S    i Subproject
ownership
* AR = architect; D = Disbursement Officer: EC = economist; ED = education secialist: EG = enoineer: F = financial analvst:
HF = health financing specialist ; L = legal ; MG = management specialist ; OP = Operations Assistant/Specialist ; P = procurement
specialist ; PH = public health specialisL
(1) Ratings: 1/HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems; 3/U = significant problems.
(2) Types of Problems: L = legal; M = management performance ; F = availability of funds ; D = disbursement; PR =
procuremenL



35                                Appendix A
Fonds d'Assistance Economique et Sociale
Second Credit de 'IIDA pour le FAES
Mission de Pr&Evaluation
(FAES II)
Aide-memoire #1
Introduction
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, composee de Mme Elizabeth Waters (chargee de
projet), M. Jorge Alfaro (consultant ingenieur), Mlle. Julie Van Domelen (economiste), M. David
Warren (economiste), et M. Daniel Boyce (specialiste financier) s'est rendue A Port-au-Prince du
7 au 18 decembre pour faire la pre-evaluation du projet "Fonds d'Assistance Economique et
Sociale II" (FAES II). La mission a eu des seances de travail avec la directrice generale, le
directeur de promotion, le directeur d' evaluation, le directeur de controle et suivi et le directeur
administratif et financier du FAES. Elle s'est egalement reunie avec les representants de la
Banque Interamericaine de Developpement (BID), du Programme des Nations Unies pour le
Developpement (PNUD), des Fonds des Nations Unies pour l'Enfance (UNICEF), et de la
Cooperation Francaise. La mission a visite des projets a Gonaives, Saint-Marc, Arcahaie et Port-
au-Prince. La mission voudrait exprimer ses remerciements a toutes les personnes rencontrees
pour leur accueil et l'esprit de cooperation qui a caracterise les discussions.
2.    Le FAES a fonctionne bien depuis la reouverture de ses operations en Avril 1995. Les
premiers prets de la BID et d'IDA ont et decaisses rapidement, et le FAES a un personnel
quaiifie et une base solide pour les operations. Le but de la mission a et de revoir les procedures
operationnelles de l'institution, et chercher la maniere d'ameliorer la performance pour le second
pret. La mission s'est concentree sur la participation comnmunautaire, les projets productifs, le
ciblage, le << Monitoring et Evaluation >>, et a fait des suggestions pour les ameliorations. Des
actions specifiques a prendre avant la mission d'evaluation sont en italiques dans le document.
Promotion
3.    Le volume de demandes a baisse considerablement au cours de la derniere annee, pour
deux raisons principales: l'absence de fonds pendant neuf mois en 1996-97, et le volume de
travail entrain6 par l'execution du Programme National de Construction d'Ecoles. Il faudrait
reprendre le programme de promotion beaucoup plus active pour augmenter le nombre de
demandes et assurer un flux permanent de demandes. L'institution devrait considerer la
possibilite d'engager deux promoteurs de plus avec experience en participation communautaire
pour aider a renforcer la strategie de promotion. Avant la mission d'evaluation ilfaudrait reviser
et mettre Li jour les projets aux etapes 105 (check list incomplet), I'etape 202 (projet en
observation), et en informer les communautes.
4.    Meme avec les promoteurs additionnels, le FAES ne peut s'occuper directement de faire
la promotion de l'institution et des projets dans toutes les localites du pays. Pour cette raison, il
doit travailler en partenariat avec des ONGs qui peuvent faciliter l'identification des besoins et la



36
preparation de projets d'une facon participative et selon les definitions et procedures du FAES.
Le FAES a organise deux colloques avec des ONGs l'et6 demier. II faudrait maintenant faire le
suivi pour arriver a des actions concretes de partenariat qui donnent des resultats visibles. De
plus, il existe des programmes finances par d'autres agences avec lesquelles le FAES est en
discussion telles le Programme d'Appui Prioritaires aux Municipalites, Appui en Amenagement
du Territoire du MPCE finance par le PNUD qui ont pr6ne l'approche participative dans
l'identification et la priorisation des projets. II faudrait etudier les possibilites de coordination
avec ces programmes. Pour le financement du 2nd Pret de la Banque Mondiale, il faudrait
envisager et planifier une strategie permettant au FAES d'etre plus proche des beneficiaires.
Avant la mission d'evaluation il faudrait arreter la strategie et determiner les ressources
necessaires pour la mise en cewre.
5.    Participation. La participation des beneficiaires demeure un des plus grands defis pour le
FAES. L'institution doit continuer de s'assurer que les projets sont une reponse reelle aux
besoins des beneficiaires, et que les beneficiaires participent au choix de la demande, a la
presentation du dossier, a l'execution du projet et sa prise en charge. Pour garantir que les
projets presentes au FAES sont le resultat d'un processus participatif de formulation, les
documents et les rencontres de promotion devraient mettre l'accent sur ce point.  Les
recommandations venant du travail en cours sur l'evaluation sociale et l'evaluation de la prise en
charge des projets doivent etre incorporees dans les strat6gies et actions futures de promotion.
6.    Appui aux Communautes.   La mission a etudie les propositions d'appui aux
communautes dans le cadre de la strategie de promotion. A part des activites generales de
promotion, commes les contacts avec les autorites locales et centrales et les campagnes
publicitaires, deux activites prioritaires pour appuyer les communautes defavorisees ont ete
identifiees: un processus de formation communautaire, et le financement des etudes de pre-
investissement:
formation communautaire: II est suggere que le FAES commence dans les prochains mois un
programme pilote de consultation et appui aux comnmunautes ciblees. Cet appui devrait se
concentrer sur : (a) l'identification et la priorisation des besoins des communautes; (b) le
renforcement des aspects participatifs dans l'identification et la formulation des projets, (c)
l'amelioration de l'acces au financement par les communautes defavoris6es, et (d) la
coordination entre les autres agences et programmes au niveau local. Les resultats de ce
programme pilote incluront la generation de projets dans des regions defavorisees, le
developpement d'une methodologie pour continuer ces activites sous forme de projets
'formation communautaire', et la revision de la liste des projets eligibles pour voir s'il faut
faire des ajustements au menu du FAES. La Banque Mondiale, dans son programme d'appui
au processus de "Social Assessment', c'est a dire de consultation avec les beneficiaires pour
mieux orienter les projets finances par la Banque, peut offrir une assistance technique pour
aider a la realisation du programme pilote. Pour les autres ressources necessaires, l'appui
communautaire disponible dans FAES II de la BID d6vrait etre applique a cette activite.
Pour ce programme pilote, FAES choisira une commune dans chacun des trois departements
les plus defavorises du pays (criteres a discuter avec la Banque). Le Dipartement de



37
Promotion presentera une premiere version des termes de references avant fin janvier 1998.
Ce programme pilote se fera en utilisant des consultants ou des organisations locales ayant de
l'experience dans le domaine. II serait preferable que la meme equipe travaille sur les trois
communes suivant les orientations de la Direction de Promotion.
etudes de pre-investissement:  Pour renforcer la capacite technique des communautes
defavorisees et pour assurer la qualite technique des projets, il faudrait mettre en place le
financement des etudes de pre-investissment deja prevu mais pas encore utilise. Avant la
mission d'e'valuation, la Direction de Promotion devrait: (a) finaliser les criteres d'eligibilite
(type du projet, caracteristiques des communautis ou demandeurs, montant maximum des
etudes, procedures pour les contrats des services, etc.); et (b) une estimation du nombre et
montant pour lesprojets deja requs au FAES.
7.   NMenu des Projets. En vue de preparer la mission d 'e'valuation, le FAES devrait revoir le
menu des projets et proceder aux ajustements necessaires, y compris l'Flimination des types qui
ne sont pas demandes et l'inclusion de nouvelles categories pouvant surgir du travail d'appui aux
communautes.
Evaluation
8.    Bien que les procedures d'evaluation aient ete ameliorees, la Mission recomnmande de
renforcer le processus d'evaluation dans les domaines suivant: (i) formation; (ii) evaluation
sociale; (iii) evaluation economnique et prise en charge par la comrnmunaute.
9.    Composante Formation dans les Projets. Le FAES a deja commence a exiger la presence
et parfois la constitution, quand il n'existe pas, et la formation de comites de gestion. Pour
assurer que ces comites sont aptes a remplir et remplissent effectivement leurs fonctions.
L 'institution devrait developper des processus de promotion, d 'evaluation et de controle de cette
formation, et des modeles de guide deformation pour chaque type de projet qui le requiert.
10.   Evaluation Sociale. La mission s'est reunie avec le consultant sociologue embauche par
le FAES pour ameliorer l'evaluation sociale. La Banque est tres satisfaite de l'initiative et
l'interet montre par le FAES dans ce domaine. nI a ete convenu que le FAES enverrait le rapport
du consultant ainsi qu'un plan d'application de ces recommandations dans tous les etapes du
cycle des projets.
11.   Evaluation economigue et prise en charge par la cornmunaute. La mission a revu les
procedures et les parametres d'evaluation economique des projets presentes. II a et observe que
le travail d'analyse des budgets des projets est tres solide et complet. Cependant, il y a quelques
elements essentiels qui manquent ou ne se sont pas suffisamment refletes dans les fiches
d'evaluation. La mission et la Direction d'Evaluation se sont mis d'accord sur la necessite de
completer la methodologie et la mise en place dans les fiches d'evaluation des projets des aspects
suivants:
Definition et quantification lorsque c'est possible -- des benefices des projets.



38
* Definition des fourchettes acceptables de couits par beneficiaire. Dans l'annexe A, le tableau
I presente les parametres actuels pour les projets FAES et reflete des variations importantes
dans l'utilisation de cet indicateur par type de projet et parmi les memes types de projets.
* Analyse financiere des couits recurrents generes par chaque projet, comme les couits
d'entretien, les couits en personnel additionnel, et autres coats de fonctionnement.
*  Analyse de la gestion prevue pour l'operation et l'entretien apres l'intervention du FAES, y
compris le niveau des tarifs applicables, la capacite des comites de gestion de generer les
ressources necessaires, et l'engagement budgetaire des communes ou des minist6res. Le
FAES devrait exiger un engagement du part de tous les groupes impliques dans les projets
(ministere, communaute, gouvernement local, etc.), et non pas seulement de l'institution
demandeuse.
12.   Dans l'annexe A, le Tableau 2 presente une matrice de ces elements d'analyse
economique pour les types de projets les plus importants. L'application de cette methodologie
depend d'informations deja disponibles au FAES, comme les moyennes de couit par beneficiaire
et par type du projet, ainsi que d'informations qu'il faut collecter ailleurs, comme les normes des
coCits d'entretien d'infrastructure dans le pays. La mission considere ce travail d'amelioration
methodologique tres important pour assurer la qualite et la durabilite des investissements
finances par le FAES. Les fiches d 'evaluation revisee de maniere a incorporer ces aspects
devraient etre presentes a la mission d 'evaluation de la Banque Mondiale.
13.   Le FAES devrait considerer la possibilite d'engager quelques evaluateurs pour renforcer
l'evaluation sociale, les composantes de formation dans les projets, et les projets plus complexes
(projets agricoles, d'eau potable et d'assainissement). Avant la mission d'e'valuation, la Direction
d 'Evaluation doit definir ses besoins en assistance technique prevus pour le FAES II.
Controle et Suivi
14.   Les Charges de projet sont responsables de l'administration des contrats avec les
executants et les superviseurs aussi bien que du contr6le technique des travaux. Pour les projets
finances A partir des deux lers Prets, la DCS n'a pas reagi de maniere suffisamment rapide et
efficace vis-a-vis des retards d'execution. Cependant, recemment, le FAES a commence A
penaliser les executants qui ne completent pas les travaux. De plus, la mise A jour des rapports
aux differents etats devrait etre automatique. Les resultats de ces actions devront se refleter
prochainement dans les indicateurs de performance. La Direction devrait realiser des seances de
formation des charges de projets pour l'administration des contrats d'execution et de supervision
la composante de formation des projets, la prise en charge par la communaute, et la durabilite des
projets. Le FAES pourrait au besoin recourir A des professionnels pour se faire assister.
15.   Pour pouvoir absorber le deuxieme pret IDA, ra Direction de Suivi devrait revoir le
nombre de charges de projet, et d6terminer les besoins eventuels de recrutement en fonction de la
charge de travail previsible, comme chacun est a la limite maintenant avec une moyenne de 23
projets. Le profil des charges de projets devrait prendre en compte la necessite de renforcer les



39
aspects de formation des comites de gestion et la participation des beneficiaires. La Direction
doit aussi prendre des mesures pour elargir la liste des superviseurs et executants potentiels par
type de projet et zone geographique, pour eviter les goulots d'etranglement qui pourraient
r6sulter du volume augmente des projets dans les prochains mois.
Administration et Finances
16.   Decaissements. La Direction du FAES souhaiterait reouvrir un compte en monnaie
locale (gourdes) pour les paiements locaux effectues avec les fonds de la Banque. Cette action
avait ete recommandee par les auditeurs extemes du projet, comme un moyen d'augmenter la
transparence des debits financiers et de simplifier ainsi la comptabilite et l'audit du projet.
L'avis du Departement des Decaissements de la Banque sera transmis au FAES avant le 15
janvier 1998.
17.   Systeme Financier. Un nouveau Directeur Financier a et nomme, et a commence a
travailler le ler decembre. D'autre part, un nouveau Chef Comptable est engage. L'equipe de la
Banque s'est mise d'accord pour chercher les moyens d'offrir un stage (peut-etre un seminaire de
lancement pour le FAES II) a ces nouveaux responsables dans un futur proche.
18.   Bien que le systeme de gestion informatisee ne presente pas de problemes notables,
1'equipe de la Banque et la Direction du FAES ont decide de convertir le systeme en version
Windows, vu que la version DOS utilisee est demodee et peut presenter un probleme de "passage
a l'an 2000" dans sa programmation.
19.   Les manuels de procedures pour les finances et la comptabilite ne sont pas adequats. Un
nouveau manuel plus detaille et contenant les principaux modeles de formulaires et de rapports
financiers, sera redige par le nouveau Directeur Financier et le nouveau Chef Comptable dans
les prochaines semaines, en vue d 'etre presente a la mission d 'evaluation.
20.   Rapport Financier.   La compagnie Turnier & Laurent a ete recontactee pour l'audit
1996-97. Le rapport 1996-97 est en preparation et est suppose etre expedie a la Banque avant la
date limite. La premiere version du rapport a ete revue par la mission, qui a fait quelques
observations et suggestions presentees dans I'Annexe C.
Les Projets Productifs
21.   Le FAES a finance des projets productifs, (systeme d'irrigation, de stockage, de sechage,
marches). Compte tenu de la complexite de ce type de projets, avant de prendre la decision,
l'institution devrait attendre les resultats de l'etude de Quisqueya pour ameliorer l'evaluation et
les procedures de fonctionnement. Pour les projets (micro-credits), le FAES entreprendra une
etude pour determiner l'eventualite de son intervention dans le secteur.



40
Ciblage des Fonds
22.   Le but de la strategie de repartition budgetaire et de priorisation des projets mise en place
au cours de la premiere phase garantit l'equite dans la transparence. La distribution budgetaire
publique par departement devrait se faire avec 70-75% des fonds. FAES entreprendra une
campagne active de promotion, sur lesquelles il n'est pas intervenu. FAES continuerait A
accepter des demandes de toutes les communes du pays, mais il prioriserait l'evaluation (et le
financement de pre-investissement) pour favoriser des communes "deficitaires". Cependant, le
FAES ne devrait pas permettre que le budget pour un Departement se consomme par une
commune dans un autre Departement qui a dejA utilise ses fonds, au moins pas avant la fin du
programme. En plus de la repartition budgetaire, le mecanisme le plus efficace pour le ciblage
des fonds vers les communautes et beneficiaires pauvres est une promotion proactive et un menu
cible.
"Monitoring and Evaluation" du FAES
23.   Monitoring. A travers les indicateurs fournis par le systeme d'information, le FAES a les
outils necessaires pour faire un suivi constant de la gestion du cycle de projet et du
fonctionnement de l'institution. Un sous-groupe d'indicateurs, les 'key performance indicators'
etaient utilises pour le projet FAES I. La mission a revu ces indicateurs et propose quelques
ajustements sur la base de l'experience de la premiere phase et des objectives prevus pour le
FAES II. Ces indicateurs de performance sont lies a: la couverture, la capacite, l'efficacite, le
ciblage, la participation, et la qualite des operations du FAES. Ces indicateurs se trouvent dans
l'Annexe B. Le systeme d'information est deja capable de fournir la majorite des indicateurs. Il
y en a deux qu'il faut creer: (a) le pourcentage des projets avec evaluation sociale
bonne/moyenne/avec problemes; et (b) le pourcentage des projets en execution classes
bon/moyenne/avec des problemes. Les Directions d'Evaluation et du Suivi et Contr6le auront la
tache d'etablir les criteres simples pour la classification de tous les projets qui sont en evaluation
et exdcution a partir du fin janvier 1998. En plus, le FAES revisera la liste proposee et fera des
observations pour arriver a une liste finale des indicateurs de performance. I1 faudrait que tous
ces indicateurs soient tenus A jour, pour disposer regulierement de l'information correcte, et
qu'ils soient etudies au cours des reunions hebdomadaires des directeurs. Ces
indicateurs seront presentes a la Banque Mondiale sous forme de rapports semestriels, incluant
une analyse des donnees, des informations sur la performance des projets, des recommandations
pour resoudre des goulots d'etranglement, et un plan d'action.
24.   Evaluation. En plus d'un systeme de suivi continu des operations du FAES a travers ces
indicateurs, il faut prevoir le necessite d'evaluer des aspects ponctuels du programme aussi bien
que l'impact des activites du FAES sur le terrain. L'etude de la prise en charge des projets en
cours (l'Universite Quisqueya) represente un point de depart important. La mission s'est reunie
avec l'equipe chargee de l'etude et a discute l'information A etre recueillie. Les resultats
preliminaires de l'etude devraient etre envoyes a la Banqu'e Mondiale aussit6t que disponible.
En plus du rapport, la mission recommande que la FAES obtienne une copie des donnees (fiches
remplies, notes des entrevues) pour les archives du FAES.



41
25.   Pour les evaluations qui seront effectues pendant le Second Pret de la Banque Mondiale,
la mission et le FAES se sont mis d'accord sur les objectifs, les activites, un calendrier et un
budget provisoire. L'analyse de l'impact couvrira les domaines suivantes:(a) le ciblage, ou bien
le degre de succes du FAES au niveau de la couverture de la population la plus defavorisee, (b)
l'impact des investissements du FAES du point de vue de l'amelioration de l'acces, l'usage et la
qualite d'infrastructure et services, (c) l'effet sur le bien-etre de la population ciblee, (d) l'impact
sur les institutions qui participent et la capacite des communautes a resoudre leurs problemes, et
(e) la durabilite des benefices des investissements FAES. Dans ces domaines, la premiere chose
a faire est definir ce qu'on va mesurer. II faudra ensuite etablir les indicateurs specifiques qui
permettent de mesurer les dimensions d'impact. Cela permettra de creer une base de donnes qui
servira comme ligne de base pour une comparaison ex-post. La mission recommande l'attente
des resultats de l'evaluation de la prise en charge qui est en cours pour fixer les indicateurs
d'evaluation d'impact, et pour profiter de l'experience sur le terrain de l'equipe de l'Universite
Quisqueya. Le FAES engagera soit la meme equipe, soit un expert national ou international dans
le domaine, soit une combinaison des deux pour aider les directeurs du FAES a determniner
l'ampleur de l'evaluation d'impact, les methodologies a suivre et les sources d'information
disponibles, et surtout d6velopper les indicateurs ex-ante qu'il faut recueillir au niveau des
projets du FAES avant ou bien pendant l'execution.  Ces indicateurs devraient etre deja
instrumentalises dans les operations du FAES avant que le premier projet du FAES II soit
finance par la Banque Mondiale. La Banque fournira des exemples de methodologies et
d'indicateurs appliques dans les evaluations d'impact des autres Fonds Sociaux.
26.   Pendant le Projet Second Pret de la Banque Mondiale, deux evaluations d'impact sont
prevues, une a la moiti6 du projet et une a la fin. Cela permettra d'avoir les informations
suffisamment t6t pour faire des ajustements pendant la derniere partie du projet, mais aussi
d'observer le progres du FAES quant a la qualite et pertinence des ses investissements a travers
le temps. On a aussi prevu la necessite d'autres evaluations ponctuelles, par exemple sur un type
de projet specifique, ou bien un travail de rencontres avec les beneficiaires pour obtenir leur
opinion sur les procedures et resultats du FAES. Un budget de US$ 100,000 est prevu pour
chaque evaluation d'impact, plus US$ 100,000 pour les evaluations ponctuelles pour un total de
US$300,000.
Systeme d'Information
27.   Bien que le systeme d'information soit en place et fournisse des informations et des
indicateurs, la mission a remarque que les Directions ne l'utilisent pas de maniere optimale pour
le controle de la gestion de l'institution. Le FAES devra recruter avant fin janvier une nouvelle
personne ressource au niveau de l'Unite Systematisation pour assurer la continuite au niveau du
systeme.
Coordination avec les Ministeres Sectoriels
28.   Les accords de cooperation avec les Ministeres de l'Education, de l'Agriculture, des
Travaux Publics et le SNEP ont ete prepares, negocies, et signes. Les accords stipulent la
communication ouverte entre les differentes parties au sujet des investissements d'infrastructure



42
et d' assistance sociale, et la responsabilite des institutions pour les couts recurrents des
investissements. Le FAES devrait travailler avec le Ministere pour resoudre le probleme de
retard dans la nomination de professeurs pour les ecoles construites ou reparees par le FAES.
Montant du credit IDA
29.   Le FAES a la capacite d'approuver entre 30-35 projets par mois, avec un couit moyen de
US$ 50,000, ce qui represente US$ 1.5 - 1.75 millions par mois et US$ 18 - 21 millions par an.
Compte tenu des ressources disponibles au titre du fmancement de la BID, le programme suivant
a ete prepare a la Banque:
Annie Fiscale  BID        LOCAL    BM             TOTAL
Juin-Sept '97   $2,000,000  $200,000              $2,200,000
Oct. 97-Sept. 98 $14,000,000 $2,000,000  $2,000,000   $20,000,000
Oct. 98-Sept. 99 $8,000,000  $1,900,000  $10,000,000  $19,900,000
Oct 99-Sep2000 _          $1,800,000  $18,000,000 $19,800,000
2000          1       _              1$18,000,000 $0
TOTAL          $24,000,000 $5,900,000  $48,000,000 $61,900,000
*le montant correspond aux engagements en projets FAES, pas aux decaissements
30.   II est donc propose un pret IDA de $48 millions de dollars et une periode d'execution de
quatre ans. De plus, la mission a identifie certains besoins d'assistance technique et de depenses
operationnelles pour lesquels le budget actuel du FAES, y compris la contribution BID,
pourraient ne pas suffire. De plus, le FAES informera la Banque Mondiale aussit6t que possible
de l'eventualite de demander un PPF pour prefinancer ces activites. Ces chiffres seront
confirm6s au cours de la mission d'Evaluation en fonction de projections detailles.
31.   La mission amis l'accent sur la necessite d'entreprendre les actions indiquees en italique
avant ia mission d'evaluation prevue pour fin fevrier. I1 faudrait (i) nettoyer les projets dans le
systeme; (ii) determiner la strategie de decentralisation du FAES; (iii) rediger les termes de
reference pour le programme pilote de formation communautaire; (iv) finaliser la strategie de
pre-investissement; (v) revoir le menu de projets; (vi) reviser les fiches d'evaluation; (vii)
recruter une nouvelle ressource de l'Unite Systematisation et (viii) elaborer le nouveau manuel
pour les finances et la comptabilite. 11 faudrait egalement determiner les besoins eventuels
d'assistance technique sp6cifiques pour ces taches.
Port-au-Prince, le 18 decembre 1997



43
Analvse Economique des Projets du FAES
Infrastructure en Sante          2 -4                98            10
Mobilier Scolaire                 56                419            85           1358
Agricuture (cons. sols,        l
drainage, irrig., stockage)      680                2 6 3          51          14097
Latrines                         966              T 1073          229           1234
Curage des Canaux                1306             T  11    -           4       5569
Eau Potable                      1507             11951             9           9379
Infrastructure Scolaire       3l549               l3375           130          32477



*NNE*7
Analyse Economique des Sous-Projets du FAES: Table 2
Type du         Avantages Posibks                 Quantification des        Indicateurs               Analyse de Cofts       Analyse de Ia        Pour Determiner
Projet                                            Avantages Majeurs          Economiques              Recurrents             Gestion AprAs le
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   P r o j ee
Infrastructlre  *   Augmentation dans l'offre     *   Reduction dans les     Minimisation des         *   Identification et   Qui est responsable  *   Experience
Scolaire            educative (plus de places)        coQts d'entretien a    CoAts:                       quantification     pour l'opdration de      sectorielle des
(IS/IOI-107;    *   Extension des niveaux             cause de la            (compare avec les            des besoins du    I'ecole?                  coOts d'entretien de
AS/1Ol-IOS)         disponbiles a l'ecolc            rehabilitati6n          parametres financieres       personnel                                   infrastructure pour
*   Amelioration dans la qualite                            FAES)                         additionel A      Qui est le               arriver au calcule
physique de I'6co1e (plus    *   Extension de la vie                                  cause de la       responsable pour         standard
d'espace par eleve,              utile du batiment      *   CoOtIm2                   construction des   1'entretien de      *   Definition du
disponibilit6 de muebles)                               *   CoOt/salle de classe      salles de classe    I'ecole?               niveau de
*   AmAlioration de la sante des   *   Recettes prevues por   *   Cofltlbanc scolaire                                                rehabilitation
eleves (meilleur hygiene,        1'ecole A cause de                               *   Calcul de         Comment vont-ils         versus nouvelle
meilleur ventilation)            I'expansion dans le    *   Cott de                   nouveaux cofits   asurer la dotage de      construction
*   Moins de coAts de entretien      nombre des dleves          r6habilitation < ...%     d'entretien de    personel
majeur A cause de la                                        du coDt de nouvelle       l'infiastructure    necessaire?
rehabilitation               *   Avantage de l'acces A      construction              par an
*   Extension de la vie utile de     I'ecole ou la                                                          Est-ce qu'il y a
I'ecole                          achevement de          CoAt-EficacitA:                                 deja une manque
*   Meilleur assistance des          I'ecole primaire       (compare avec les                               de rubrique
6leves (pour posibles                                   parametres financi6res                          salaries?
ameliorations comme                                     FAES)
cantines, bancs, etc.)                                                                                  Comment vont-ils
*   Meilleur gestion de I'dcole (A                          *   CoOt par 6leve                              s'organiser pour
cause du renforcement de                                                                                assurer l'entretien
I'area administratif et les                             Taux Interne de                                 annuel?
comites de gestion)                                     Rentabilite:
*   Meilleurs taux d'apprendre                                                                              Comment font-ils
des eleves                                              Applicable a l'analyse                          en ce moment?
de l'economie sur coOts
d'entretien et l'extention
de la vie utile du
batiment



Type du         Avantages Posibles               Quantification des         Indicateurs              Analyse de Couts      Analyse de la        Pour Determiner
Projet                                           Avantages Majeurs         Economiques               Recurrents           G(estion Apres le
Projet
Systemes de     *  Augmentation de la            *   Diference nette dans   Minimisation des         *   Calcul de         Qui est responsable  *   Experience
I'Eau Potable       consommation de l'eau            les depenses de       Coats:                        nouveaux cofts   pour l'op6ration du       sectorielle des
(IS/301-305)    *   Economie sur les depenses de     menages en eau        (compare avec les             d'entretien de    systeme?                 coats d'entretien de
menages, soit en temps                                 parametres financieres        I'infrastructure                           infrastructure pour
epargne dans la collection ou   *   Calcule de la      FAES)                         par an            Qui est le               arriver au calcule
bien en evitant acheter de       production des                                                        responsable pour         standard
1'eau plus cher                  menages avec 1'eatu   *   CoOt/fontainc        *   Calcul des coOts  1'entretien du
*   Amelioration de l'hygiene et                           *   Coat/citeruc             d'operation        systc611e?
de la sante de la population  *   Economie sur les         familiale                (personnel,
*   Augmentation de la               coats d'entretien     *   Coat/puit        energie, chlior..,)   Y'a-t-il un comite
production de la nouriture de                          *   Cout/reparation mi                          de gestion,
la menage                                                                       *   Estimation du      compose de qui?
*   Economie sur les coats                                 Cofit-Eficacit6:              coat total par
d'entretien (pour les projets                          (compare avec les             mois/an par       Y'a-t-il le niveau                           4
de rehabilitation)                                     parametres financieres       famille            de connaissance                              U
*   Augmentation de la valeur                              FAES)                                           technique
economique de la zone                                                                                  necessaire pour
*   Co&t/beneficiare                           gerer le systeme
*   Coat/quantite                              localement?
hebdomadaire livre
par menage                                 Comment c'est
organize le systeme
Taux Interne de                                de paiement des
Rentabilite:                                   beneficiaries?
Applicable a l'analyse                         Est-ce que le
de 1'economie sur coats                        niveau des coats
d'entretien,                                    sont dans les
augmentation de la                              possibilite soit des
production du menage et                         beneficiares soit
la valeur economique de                        des institutions
la zone                                        locales d'en payer?



Type du         Avanlages Posibles               Quantification des        Indicateurs              Analyse de CoGts       Analyse de la       Pour Determiner
Projet                                           Avanitages Majeurs        Econoimiqucs             Rctcurresits           Gestion Apr6s le
Projet
Infrastructure  *   Reduction des taux de        *   Reduction nettes des   Minimisation des        *   Identification et   Qui est responsable  *   Experience
et Equipment        morbidite dans la zone           coOts des services    Cofits:                      quantification     pour l'operation du     sectorielle des
en Sante        *   Reduction des taux de        *   Economie sur les      (compare avec les             des besoins du    centre de sante?        coits d'entretien de
(IS/201-204;        mortalite dans la zone           co(ts d'entretien     parametres financieres        personnel                                  infrastructure pour
AS/20 1-208)    *   Expansion dans le rang des    *   Augmentation des     FAES)                        additionel         Qui est le               arriver au calcule
services de sante offerts dans  revenues du centre     *  CoOt/m2                                      responsable pour        standard
la zone                                                *   CoAt/salle de        *   Calcul de         1'entretien du       *   Definition dti
*   Augmentation de la capacite                                consultation             nouveaux coOts   centre de sanit?          niveau de
des prestations de soins                               *   Co0t/vaccini             d'entretien de                             rehabilitation
*   Reduction dans les coGts des                           *  Cot/nmeubles salle        l'infrastructure    Comment vont-ils       versus nouvelle
services, soit pour une                                    de consultation          par an             asurer la dotage de     construction
reduction dans le temps d'                             *  CoOt/paquet de                               personel
attente dans le centre ou                                  equipment            *   Calcul des autres  necessaire?
coGts de transport/temps pour                          *  Coflt de                  cofts recurrents,                                              4>
arriver aux alternatives ou                                rehabilitation <  %      par exemple        Est-ce qu'il y a
cofts des services prives                                  du coOt de nouvelle      dotage des         deja une manque
*   Augmentation dans la qualite                               construction             medicaments,       de rubrique
des services                                                                        reparation des     salaries?
*   Augmentation de la                                     CoGit-Eficacite:             equipments
productivite de la population                          (compare avec les                               Comment ils
*   Ecoftomie sur les coOls                                paramrtres financieres                          assurent le
d'entretien (pour les projets                          FAES)                                           stockage de
de rdhabilitation)                                                                                     medicaments
CoOt/b6ndficiare                           essentielles?
Taux Interne de                                Combien devraient
Rentabilite:                                   payes les
Applicable a I'analyse                         utilisateurs des
de I'conomie sur coOls                        services?
d'entretien, cofits des
services et revenues du
centTe



Type du         Avantages Posibles               Quantification des        Indicateurs              Analyse de CoQts       Analyse de la        Pour Determiner
Projet                                           Avantages Majeurs         Economiques              R&eurrents             Gestion Apres le
I'rojet
Infrastructure  *   Economic sur les cofts       *   Economie stir les     Minimisation des         *   Calcul de          Qui est le          *   Experience
Economique:         d'entretien des voies et des     coOts d'entretien des   Coats:                     nouveaux coQts   responsable pour          sectorielle des
Pistes, Ponts,      routes                           voies et des routes   (compare avec les             d'entretien de    1'entretien du           coats d'entretien de
Passarelles et   *   Economie sur les coOts      *   Economie sur les      parametres financieres       l'infrastructure    travaux?                infrastructure pour
Routes              d'entretien des vdhicules        coats d'entretien des   FAES)                       par an                                     arriver au calcule
Secondaires    *  Meilleure circulation des          vehicules             *  Coat/kilometre                               Est-ce que le            standard
(IE/001-008)        vehicules, reduction dans le    *   Valeur economique    *  CoOt/m2                                    niveau des coQts
temps qu'il faut pour            pour les zones                                                        sont dans les
traverser une tranche de route   urbaines              Colit-Eficacite:                                possibilite des
*  Augmentation dans I'acces                               (compare avec les                               institutions locales
aux marches                                            parametres financieres                          d'en payer?
*  Augmentation dans l'acces                               FAES)
aux services sociales                                  *   Cout/beneficiaire
(education, sante)                                     *   Coflt/vehicule/jour
*   Augmentation de ia valeur
economique de la zone                                  Taux Interne de
*   Reductions dans les coats de                           Rentabilite:
transport                                              Applicable a l'analyse
de l'economie sur coats
d'entretien des routes et
des vehicules, peut-etre
I'augmentation dans le
valeur de la zone ou
reductions dans les coats
de transport



Type du         Avantages Posibles              Quantification des        Indicateurs             Analyse de Cofits      Analyse de Ia       Pour Determiner
Projet                                          Avantages Majeurs         Economiques             R&eurrents             Gestion Apres le
Projet
Infrastructure  *  Augmentation de la           *  Augmentation en        Minimisation des        *   Tariffs            Qui es responsable   *   Experience
Economique:         production de la zone           b6nefices nets aux    CoGits:                     d'utilization aux   pour l'operation et    sectorielle des coats
March6s,        *  Amelioration en la               producteurs           (compare avec les           producteurs        I'entretien des         d'entretien de
Silos, Glacis       commercialization des       *   Economie sur les      parametres financieres   *   Coats d'entretien   ouvrages?             infrastructure pour
de Sechage,         produits, en volume, en prix    cofits d'entretien    FAES)                       des ouvrages                               arriver au calcule
Conservation        et en qualite                   (pour les projets de  *  CoAt/hectare         *   Besoins en         Comment les             standard
de Sols         *  Augmentation en b6nefices        rehabilitation)       *  Cotl/m3 stockc           assislance         producteurs sont-ils
(IE/101-109)        nets aux producteurs                                                              t&ciniqLue ct      organizds?
*  Augmentation de la valeur                              Coat-Eflcacit6:             1'appui du
economique de la zone                                 (compare avec les           personnel          Qui a l'acces aux
*  Economie sur les coats                                 parametres financieres      d'operation        avantages de
d'entretien (pour les projets                         FAES)                                          1'investissement?
de rdhabilitation)                                    *   Coat/benbficiare
*  Amelioration a                                                                                        Est-ce que le
1'environnement de la zone                            Taux Interne de                                niveau des coOts                            oD
Rentabilite:                                  sont dans les
Applicable a I'analyse                        possibilites des
de l'economie sur coats                       producteurs d'en
d'entretien,                                  payer?
augmentation de
production et revenus
des producteurs
* Comme la crdation de l'emploi n'est pas un but direct du FAES, on na pas inclu lees emplois generes parmi les avantages des projets



49
Indicateurs de Performance du FAES
Couverture du FAES
1. Distribution des projets (demande et approuve) par region
2. Distribution des projets par type du projet
Capacite du FAES
3. Nombre et valeur des projets demandds, evalues, approuves, en execution et termines
4. Decaissements mensuelles en projets
5. Coat moyenne des projets approuves
6. Nombre des projets en execution pour charge des projets
Eficacit6 du FAES
7. Couits administratifs/budget total annuel
8. Nombre des jours moyennes entre:
Demande presentee (95) et pret a passer a l'evaluation (115)
Projet en evaluation (205) et projet presente au comite (218)
Projet approuve (310) et projet en execution (510)
9. Pourcentage des projets termines au temps prevu
10. Nombre de projets qui ont depassds plus de 60 jours de retard
11. Cout actuel par beneficiaire par type du projet
Ciblage
12. Montant approuve par commune/l'allocation indicative pour commune en function du niveau
de pauvrete departemental
Participation
13. Pourcentage de contrapartie des demandeurs et beneficiaires
Qualite des Projets
14. Nombre des projets evalues/nombre des projets rejetes
15. Nombre des projets annules
16. Pourcentage des projets avec ordres des changes plus de 20 % du montant
originalement approuve
17. Pourcentage des projets avec 6valuation sociale bonne/moyenne/avec problemes
18. Pourcentage des projets en exdcution classes bonlmoyenne/avec problemes



50
ADMINISTRATION FINANCIERE
Decaissements
La Direction du FAES est interessee A re-ouvrir un compte en monnaie locale
(gourdes), pour les paiements locaux effectues avec les fonds de la Banque. Etant donne
que le compte servirait de compte transitoire et serait dans la meme banque que le
Compte Special, le risque de devaluation serait minime.  Cette action avait ete
recommandee par les auditeurs extemes du projet, comme un moyen d'augmenter la
transparence des debits financiers et simplifier ainsi la comptabilit6 et l'audit du projet.
Une requete avait et adressee A la Banque (Mime Waters) concemant une
reallocation des diverses categories de prets de FAES I, afin que le surplus de ces fonds
soit utilise et qu'aucune categorie ne soit mise A decouvert. Cette requete sera prise en
consideration par la Banque et discutee avec la Direction du FAES, et s'il est juge
necessaire et adequat, utne reallocation sera faite.
Systeme Financier
Des changements importants se sont produits recemment au sein du personnel
financier du projet. Un nouveau Directeur Financier a ete nomme, et a cormence a
travailler le ler decembre. D'autre part, un nouveau Chef Comptable sera prochainement
engage parce que la personne travaillant A ce titre a recemment demissionne du FAES.
Cette nouvelle direction sera indispensable pour le maintien et l'aamlioration du niveau
du systeme comptable du projet, et l'equipe de la Banque s'est mise d'accord pour
chercher les moyens d'offfir un stage (peut-etre un seminaire de lancement pour le FAES
II) a ces officiels dans un futur proche.
Un consultant engage recemment par la BID  a effectute une revue de
l'administration financiere du projet. Ses donnees et ses conclusions devraient etre
serieusement prises  en consideration   par la Direction du FAES afin que des
ameliorations soient apportees.
Le projet utilise le programme comptable ACCPAC pour tenir ses livres. Le
systeme facilite la preparation des rapports, la selection des donnees et la comptabilite
multi-monnaie (dollars et gourdes), quoique la derniere est realisee de telle sorte qu'elle
represente une duplication du travail deja effectue. Bien que le systeme ne parait pas
comme presentant de serieuses difficultes, l'equipe de la Banque et la Direction du FAES
admettent que le FAES devrait convertir son systeme en version Windows, vu que la



51
version DOS utilisee est demodee et peut confronter un "An 2000" probleme dans sa
programmation.
Les manuels de procedures pour les finances et la comptabilite ne sont pas
adequats. Un nouveau manuel, qui sera plus detaille et qui contiendra les formats des
formes les plus importantes et des rapports financiers, sera redige par le nouveau
Directeur Financier et le nouveau Chef Comptable dans les prochaines semaines. M.
Boyce a suggere qu'un brouillon de ce manuel soit redige avant la prochaine mission
d'evaluation de la Banque, afin qu'il soit revu a ce moment.
Rapport Financier
Les cornmentaires de la Banque au sujet du rapport de l'audit 1995-96 ont ete
discutes avec le Directeur du Projet et le Directeur Financier.  Les principaux
conmnentaires ont t&: i) le rapport a ete accepte par la Banque, mais certaines
ameliorations doivent etre apportees; ii) il etait difficile de verifier les montants dans les
rapports; iii) la Banque recommande que l'actuelle firme d'audit soit recontactee, si leur
travail est juge satisfaisant par le FAES.
La meme compagnie avait ete recontactee pour l'audit 1996-97.  Le rapport
1996-97 est en preparation et est suppose etre expedie a la Banque bien redige avant la
date limite. Le rapport a ete brinvement revise par M. Boyce, qui a fait les observations
et suggestions suivantes:
1) Pour chaque section, un rapport intitule "Sources et Utilisations des Fonds" devrait
etre prepare en lieu et place du Tableau de Financement. Ceci parce que le Tableau de
Financement contient seulement des informations sur les depenses des projets, et ne
permet pas une reconciliation entre les "cash balance" du debut et de la fin. Ce qui est
necessaire c'est un rapport (Sources et Utilisations des Fonds) qui montrerait les entrees
(financieres dans le cas des rapports consolides) aussi bien que les depenses effectuees au
cours de l'annee. Au bas de ce rapport il y aurait une ecriture qui montrerait: Cash du
debut + Sources des Fonds (fonds accordes) - Utilisations des Fonds (Depenses) =
Cash de la Fin.
2) Le rapport du Compte Special (reconciliation) s'est amrliore comparativement a la
version 1995-96, cependant dans chacun des cas il y a un fait inexplicable. Dans la
version 1995-96, une ligne dans la section dep6t etait appelee "autres" et representait plus
de US$500,000 dans le compte dep6ts. Or, ce "autres" categorie n'apparait pas dans le
rapport 1996-97, et une somme de plus de $600,000 apparait comme "demandes 1991".
Supposant que ceci n'etait pas une erreur, cette somme aurait du etre pleinement
expliquee dans le rapport parce qu'il n'est pas clair que des demandes de remboursement
faites en 1991 auraient un quelconque effet sur la reconciliation d'un compte ouvert en
1995.



Appendix B
52
FONDS D'ASSISTANCE ECONOMIQUE ET SOCIALE
Accord de Credit de Developpement
Credit 2205-EA
Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
Le Projet - Objectifs et Composantes:
Le 4 fevrier 1991, I'Etat haitien a signe avec I'Association Internationale de Developpement
(IDA) un accord de credit d'un montant de 7.9 millions de DTS pour la creation d'un Fonds
d'Assistance Economique et Sociale (FAES) dont la mission serait le financement de sous-
projets. Les objectifs de ce Projet etaient d'assister l'Emprunteur (la Republique d'Haiti) en:
*  Etablissant le FAES comme un instrument permettant de repondre de maniere
efficiente et decentralisee aux besoins de base de la population pauvre par
l'intermediaire des organisations non gouvernementales, incluant les cooperatives,
groupes communautaires organises, et autres organisations de base;
*  Renforcant les services d'education, de sante et de nutrition (principalement en ce qui
a trait aux nourrissons et aux femmes enceintes et allaitantes) et en fournissant des
infrastructures physiques permettant de repondre aux besoins des plus pauvres;
* Fournissant un canal effectif pour l'aide externe necessaire et pour la coordination
d'efforts locaux disperses ; et en
  Renfor,ant la capacite du FAES et des autres entites y associees en preparation et
mise en ceuvre de projets.
Le Projet se compose de trois parties (i) la partie A, les sous-projets approuves, (ii) la partie B, le
developpement institutionnel, et (iii) la partie C, les etudes.
Partie A: Sous-Projets approuves:
Financer et mettre en cuvre des sous - projets approuves dans les communautes beneficiaires et
des projets specifiques dans les secteurs, sante, nutrition, education et infrastructure fmances dans
le cadre et selon les conditions du Pret de la BID.
Partie B : Dveloppement Institutionnel:
Renforcer la capacite du FAES entre autres par:
* L'acquisition et l'utilisation de vehicules pour la supervision du projet, de micro -
ordinateurs, d'equipement et fournitures de bureau ; et
* La fourniture d'assistance technique pour permettre au FAES d'etablir (i) un systeme
d'informations et une base de donnees (ii) un systeme comptable et (iii) un mecanisme
d'evaluation de couts.
Partie C : Etudes:
L'execution d'etudes sur:
* Les voies et moyens pour ameliorer le ciblage des ressources du FAES;
* L'impact des sous-projets approuv6s sur les communautes beneficiaires.



53
Mise en (Euvre du Projet:
Le demarrage du Projet: Le credit a ete mis en vigueur en f6vrier 1991 et en septembre 1991,
1'execution a ete interrompue par le coup d'etat.
Le Redemarrage. L'institution a re-ouvert ses portes en avril 1995. Le credit a ete remis en
vigueur peu apres. En aout 1995, le FAES a recommence a utiliser les ressources du credit pour
financer une partie de ses activites. Au redemarrage, environ 600,000$EU avaient ete utilises
pendant la periode 90/91 pour des activites preparatoires (y compris le PPF) et le financement de
l'avance de d6marrage de deux projets.
Situation au 31 mai 1998. Pendant la periode aout 1995 - mai 1998, 10.7NM$EU ont ete
decaisses.
Pour la partie A, un montant total de 9.5 Millions de $EU a permis de financer 349 sous-projets
dans 88 communes. De ces investissements 66% ont et faits en milieu rural. Ces sous-projets
se retrouvent principalement dans les secteurs:
*  Education - 3.8 millions de dollars (39.6 %  des investissements) pour des projets de
construction/rehabilitation ecoles, de fourniture de mobilier et d'equipement etc;
*  Assainissement - 2.9 millions de dollars (30.2% des investissements) pour des projets de
construction de latrines familiales et de curage de systemes d'evacuation des eaux etc.;
*  SanteaNutrition - 1.3 millions de dollars (13.6% des investissements) pour la construction
/ rehabilitation de centres de sante et le financement de campagnes de vaccination;
*  Eau potable - 1.1 millions de dollars (12% des investissements) pour la construction /
rehabilitation de svstemes d'adduction d'eau potable et de citernes familiales.
Environ 425,000 $EU sont engages pour 32 sous-projets encore en execution. Douze d'entre
eux, classes projets a problemes, sont arretes depuis dejA quelques mois. Les contrats seront
probablement resilies. Au 31 juillet, seulement deux sous-projets seront encore en execution. La
fermeture definitive de tous les comptes est prevue pour le 3 1 octobre.
Pour la partie B, (D&eloppement Institutionnel) - Les objectifs ont ete pleinement realises. Le
fonds est mis en place, vehicules, micro-ordinateurs et equipements ont ete acquis et servent au
bon fonctionnement du fonds. Le systeme d'informations et la base de donnees sont en place et
representent des outils de gestion essentiels. Le systeme comptable fonctionne, ainsi que le
mecanisme d'evaluation des couts qui permet d'etablir les devis dans des delais tres courts.
Pour la partie C, (Etudes) - Une carte de pauvrete a ete etablie et permet au FAES de distribuer le
budget parni les communes en tenant compte d'un facteur de pauvrete etabli a partir des
indicateurs existants. Un facteur tres limitatif de ce type d'etude est l'absence d'indicateurs
sociaux de base au niveau communal en Haiti. Meme les donnees demographiques sont
incertaines, le dernier recensement datant de 1982.
Une evaluation ex-post de la prise en charge des projets par les communautes beneficiaires a
aussi ete effectuee. Certaines des recommandations de l'etude sont deja en application vu que le
FAES avait deja identifie certains problemes et y avait apporte des correctifs. D'autres seront
mises en place dans les meilleurs delais.
Le Projet est donc pratiquement acheve.
Icr-22o5.doc                             25/06/98



54
Etvaluation Finale
Evaluation des objectifs, du montage et de la mise en ceuvre du Projet. En retrospective, les
objectifs, le montage et les modalites de mise en ceuvre du projet tels que concus lors de
l'evaluation etaient en general realistes.
Evaluation du montage. Dans le montage du Projet, deux points essentiels ont ete mal evalues.
II s'agit (i) des conditions precaires de communication dans le pays et (ii) des capacites
techniques et de gestions de nos partenaires. Cette situation a eu des implications importantes
dans le fonctionnement du FAES. Les difficultes d'acces aux differents sites des sous-projets
rendent difficiles toutes les actions et augmentent considerablement les delais d'execution. De
plus, les capacit6s techniques et de gestions de nos partenaires ont ete largement surestimees.
Cette surestimation des partenaires, vu leur r6le essentiel dans la realisation des objectifs et dans
le montage du projet, a ete un probleme serieux pendant le deroulement du projet.
En ce qui a trait aux demandeursl, malgre la simplification des prerequis au montage des
dossiers de projets, les demandeurs ont trop souvent et incapables de preparer leurs dossiers. De
plus, s'ils arrivent A clairement identifier le probleme, la solution technique qu'ils proposent n'est
pas toujours la mieux appropriee. Une troisieme faiblesse a ete l'impossibilite de financer des
etudes techniques, obstacle majeur au financement de certains type de projets.
Les Collectivites Territoriales en tant que demandeurs ont ete des partenaires privilegies vu que
les elections locales ont eu lieu apres la reouverture du FAES et que le fonds a et un investisseur
relativement important au niveau local. L'interet des nouveaux elus dans l'investissement local a
et manifeste et le fonds a pu dans une certaine mesure les accompagner. Cependant, la encore,
le FAES s'est heurte a la faible capacite de gestion au niveau local.
Les Executants. Les petits entrepreneurs ont aussi fait montre de faible capacite technique et de
gestion. Ils n'ont pas toujours et a meme d'organiser leur travail, de gerer un budget, de
respecter un calendrier. La duree d'execution de la plupart des projets a et au dela du dMlai
contractuel retard le plus souvent du A une mauvaise gestion des entrepreneurs. Un autre
probleme qui devient de plus en plus crucial est la faible capacite fmanciere des petits
entrepreneurs. Ils ont tres difficilement acces au credit bancaire, necessaire pour la presentation
d'un bon de garantie.
Les Superviseurs. Un autre probleme a et6 le manque de professionnalisme des superviseurs qui
s'est traduit par une irregularite dans la presence sur les chantiers et dans la transmission des
rapports. Un meilleur travail de leur part aurait permis de prevenir bon nombre de problemes.
Le Partenariat avec les ONG n'a pas toujours marche comme souhaite malgre des tentatives
d'approches globales (reunions d'ONG) et individuelles (contact direct avec des ONG
specifiques). En effet, la plupart des ONG performantes gerent un programme fmance par l'aide
bilat6rale ou par des institutions privees etrangeres. Elles ne sont interesses aux projets du FAES
que moyennant des couts importants de gestion pour accroitre leur capacit6. Quant aux autres
ONG, le probleme de renforcement institutionnel se pose egalement et de maniere beaucoup plus
cruciale.
' Groupements communautaires et autres organisations de base
Icr-2205.doc                            25106/98



55
Evaluation de la mise en ceuvre
Les objectifs tels que d6finis dans l'Accord de Credit ont ete realises de maniere globale. Les
engagements au titre des sous-projets ont ete faits bien avant la date limite et le Projet a ete
realise dans les delais impartis, abstraction faite de la periode du coup d'etat.
Au point de vue geographique, la repartition des projets est equilibree. Si on les compare a leur
population, les differents departements ont recu une part equitable des investissements. La
repartition sectorielle des investissements reflete la repartition sectorielle de la demande. Au
point de vue ciblage, une etude realisee en cours de financement a permis de repartir le budget.
Des la mise en application de cette etude, des efforts considerables ont 6te faits pour reequilibrer
la distribution des investissements en fonction du degre de pauvrete.
tvaluation de la Performance de I'Emprunteur
Bien que la performance de l'organisme d'execution ait et generalement satisfaisante dans la
mise en cuvre du projet, un certain nombre de lecons peuvent etre tirees pour I'avenir.
Une amelioration de la prise en charge des projets par les communautes locales est necessaire
pour garantir la durabilite des investissements. Cette prise en charge demande une plus grande
implication des communautes a toutes les etapes du projet et une meilleure adaptation des projets
aux conditions locales.
La participation des communautes dans leur developpement implique un investissement en temps
et en ressources dans l'encadrement des beneficiaires pendant les differentes etapes du projet:
l'identification, la priorisation, la preparation des dossiers et l'execution. Ce processus est trop
souvent difficilement compatible avec (i) la mission et les modalites de fonctionnement du FAES;
(ii) la proportion de ressources disponibles pour les couits de preparation de projets; et (iii) les
delais d'execution prevus dans les accords de fmancement. Un effort pour ameliorer les
conditions de participation des communautes est d'autant plus important que les actuelles
structures de participation sont improvisees au gre des differents projets, intervenants et bailleurs
de fonds. Une contribution importante au developpement local serait une assistance a la
conception, la mise en place et le fonctionnement de structures de participation qui seraient
integrdes statutairement aux communautes locales.
Les contributions en nature ou en especes exigees des communautes locales en guise de
participation pour la realisation des projets se sont revelees tres difficiles a gerer dans le cadre
des contrats d'entrepreneurs generalement utilises au FAES. En effet, les entrepreneurs sont trop
souvent penalises lorsque la communaute ne remplit pas ses obligations dans les delais prevus.
Cette situation a pour consequence des surcouits qui dans bien des cas doivent etre assumes par
les entrepreneurs (cout de travaux qui devaient etre fournis par la communaute, paiement
d'interets sur bon de garantie ou de penalites a cause de retards qui ne leur sont pas imputables).
La nature et/ou les modalit6s d' integration des contributions locales dans la realisation des projets
devrait donc etre revisee.
La formnation/encadrement des communautes beneficiaires doit etre se faire a toutes les etapes du
Icr-22o5.doc                             25106/98



56
projet, de l'identification, la priorisation, la preparation du document de projet et son execution.
De plus, la preparation de la communaute a la prise en charge implique une formation technique
et en gestion liee au projet specifique.
Dans le meme ordre d'idees, les normes de conception techniques et le cout des interventions
gagneraient a etre revise a la baisse ce qui permettrait a la fois l'augmentation du nombre des
interventions et l'amrlioration des possibilites de prise en charge (techniques et financi6res) par
les communaut6s locales.
Etant donne les delais d'execution, les contrats forfaitaires sont souvent penalisants pour
I 'entrepreneur.
Evaluation de la Performance de la Banque / et des Autres Cofinanciers
La Banque Mondiale. Du c6te de la Banque Mondiale, la performance a ete adequate. Les
missions de supervisions ont aide a ameliorer la performance de l'institution.
La Banque Interamericaine de Developpement (BID). En ce qui a trait a la BID, a une certaine
epoque, les relations avec la Representation ont et mauvaises sans raison apparente. La gestion
de ce probleme a grandement pris du temps et de l'energie de la direction du FAES, temps et
energie qui auraient pu et du etre consacre A la consolidation des acquis de l'institution. Les
relations se sont arneliorees depuis.
Le Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement (PNUD). Le PNUD devait intervenir
pour aider le FAES dans la mise en place du systeme informatise de gestion de projet. Pour des
raisons budg6taires cette promesse n'a pas pu se concretiser.
Monique Pierre-Antoine
Directeur General
Juin 1998
Icr-22M5.doc                            25106/98



FAES
Appendix C
57
REPARllTION GEOGRAPHIQUE DES INVESTISSEMENTS
Credit 2205-HA - Prit 854-SF/HA - Trisor Public -4SEU)
vepartement                 Fmnancement          uepartement                    Financement       uepartement                'inancement
Commune          #Projet      FAES              Commune             #Projet       FAES            Commune        #Projet      FAES
Artibonite                                     Grande-Anse                                          Ouest
Gonawves                21            879.500   Jeremie                     6             246,858   Port-au-Prince       70          3,140,718
Ennery                   2            82,468   Des Abric6ts                 5             167,436   PLtion-Ville         14            470,094
Estere                   4            113,039   Bonbon                      5             118,189   Kenscoff             8             2032385
Gros Mome                3             76,073   Moron                       1              13,793   Gressier             1               2,825
Terre neuve              5            304,817   Chambellan                  1             111314   Delmas                32            715,004
Anse Rouge               3             54,032   Anse d'Hainault             0                   0   Carrefour            21            354,535
Saint-Marc              12            366,300   Dame-Marie                  0                   0   Leogane              3               9,172
Verrettes               13            482,624   Des Irois                   0                   0   Petit-goave          5              82.001
La Chapelle              4            99,372   Corail                       5             201,795   Grand-GoAve          0                  0
Dessalines               9            312,679   Roseaux                     1              33,122   Cx-ds-Bouquets       6             143,421
Petite Riviere de        0                 0   Beaumont                     1              54.691   Thomazeau            1               2,153
Grande Saline            0                 0   Pestel                       1              71,318   Ganthier             6             301,930
Desdunes                 3            147,S20   Miragoane                   7             129,693   Cornillon            0                   0
St-Michel                6             95;790   Petite Riviere de           3              92,874   Fds Verrettes        0                   0
Marmelade                2             97.134   Anse-a-Veau                 2             136,800   Arcahaie             6             137,556
Total Artibonite        87          3,111,648   Baraderes                   4             109,824   Cabaret               1            178,928
Centre                                         Petit Trou de Nippes         0                   0   Anse-A-Galet         3              10.175
Hinche                   5            152.026   L'Asile                     0                   0   Pte-A-Raquette       0                   0
Maissade                 4            101 S89   Total Grande-Anse           42           1,487,707   Total Ouest        177          5,751,897
Thomonde                 1             16.,790   Nord
Cerca Cavajal            4             S68,6   Cap Haitien                 9             313,020   Sud
Mirebalais               9            270 5;35   Quartier Morin             0                   0   Cayes                8             132,318
Saut d'Eau               2             90,019   Limonade                    1              47,862   Torbeck              29            856,853
Boucan Carre             3            131.1S7   AcuI-du-Nord                1               3,375   Chantal              3             138,391
Las Cahobas              1             48.27   Plaine du Nord               1              84,053   Camp-Perrin          2             126,679
Belladere                0                 0   Milot                        2              64,077   Maniche              5             124,443
Savannette               0                 0   Grande Rivi6re du            2              73,662   Ile-A-Vache          0                   0
Cerca-la-Source          1             89.214   Bahon                       0                   0   Port-Salut           0                   0
Thomassique              0                 0   St-Raphael                   3              92,228   St-jean du Sud       0                   0
Total Centre            30            986,303   Dondon                      0                   0   Arniquet             0                   0
Nord-Est                                       Ranquitte                    2             110,659   Aquin                16            359,418
Fort Liberte             0                 0   Pignon                       5             206,014   St-Louis du Sud      7             179,378
Ferrier                  1             34,717   La Victoire                 3             119,988   Cavaillon            11            360,424
Perches                  2             84.162   Borgne                      0                   0   C6teaux              0                  0
Ouanaminthe              3             21.121   Port Margot                 1              84,053   Port-A-Piment        1               2,763
Capotille                2            100j509   Limbe                       3              70,296   R6che-A-Bateau       4              42,400
Mont Organise            6            265.7,8   Bas Limbe                   0                   0   Chardonnieres        4              77.838
Trou du Nord             I             33 .o3   Plaisance                   10            481,946   Des Anglais          2              72.284
Sainte-Suzanne           1              4,767   Pilate                      3             222.190   Tiburon              0                   0
Terrier Rouge            3            171,3j0   Total Nord                  46           1,973,423   Total Sud           92          2,473,389
Caracol                  0                 0
Vallieres                2             89.775   Sud-Est
Carice                   4            179,34   Jaanel                       17            731,678   Territoire Ntl       6             813,933
Mombin Crochu            1             52,891   Mangot                      6             212,367
Total Nord-Est          26          1,038,747   Caves jactnel               4             140,360
Nord-Ouest                                     La Vaille                    2              25,538
Port-de-Paix             3            66,511   Bainet                       5             152,288
La Tortue                0                 0   Cdtes de Fer                 3             120,583
Bassin Bleu              0                 0   Belle-Anse                   0                   0       567 Projets/Activites
Chansolme                0                 0   Grand Gosier                 0                   0       US$ 19,936,235 engages
St-Louis du Nord        10            389.197   Thiote                      0                   0       98 communes touchees
Anse-A-Foleur            1            29,702   Anse-A-Pitre                 0                   0
M6le St-Nicolas          5            206.73   Total Sud-Est              37           1,382,814
Baie de Henne            0                 0
bombardopolis            2            92,319
Jean Rabel               3            131,712
Total Nord-Ouest        24            916,174                                                                                    May 31 1997



MAP SECTION



IBRD 27091
U SA                                                                            73"30 -20L10                                                                      7        r     A        I                722
A LANTIC   OCEAN                                                 __
-. ' tP , PORT-DE-PA.XUB_ g LIeCP
OJBA  )-.D^LKA                                                                                                                        .X               
HAITI                           EP                             S NRol  M   O,S ,
<  - J   .                             MOLEsr NcL^i *   14?0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                             ~            ~~~~~~R D -O U(E  P.) An    >                       <        Mncmb
PUJERTO                                                                                                                                                                       UF-OAU00Y)
c-ribb-se  S-cl                                                       bomh dopol*s (                                                                 .eie de Hnne\_  <  0  \    ,! Lt  4-   N.      FOATmo    Tr  /
_____________________________________________                                                               gAns-Roeg.  Us,        Groe MornF,                                                            UBERTt1 N   7      D N    Tu-or   
R-,g.   G,., M.-      ~            oce        -.M,o,             st sooo
74130                                    71w00,                                                                                          Terre..N-                             c                          St.. Su.-
4Dordp,o     d.  rd                   O m
M  d   ~ ~ ~~~~~"~~~I 6~~~  R D-                 19`30-
EST -c-opoi. 
HAITI                                                                                                 GONAphES                  ':                /Rh              r R    VMlhoro          M
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                                                                                                                                     MonR,n  Cni. 0n13
COMMUNE RCUNDARdES                                                                                      ,     _                                                             MOOt I
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                     G-'rdoi                       DeS.oIi".,
COMMUNE HEADQUARTERS                                                                                -
e    DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                                                                              Cooco-IoSoooo,
6    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                FRMood.                                             O HINCHE
ASPHALT80AD                                                                                         S. M_                                              C  E  N    T R  Ec,
RAERS                                                                                                       A   R TT ik                                                             quo
_.-  INTERNATIONAL 80UNDARY                                                                                                                  No '-oooo Coo'
-19,00, ~ ~ ~            ~            ~           ~           ~          ~ ~ .                                                                                                                                   19;,W 11frr-
O      10      20      5'0    4L0     SD,x\>                                                                                                                               s                   ;*
KILOMETERS                                                                             -_              oGL\                         .'            SouI d Eou o  aoos         Lpoo 
Foboroa  R      oseo               :              ' -nC 11 
.9 ~, .,rAo           n                        'C4      i      o Nod /,. 
000 ..d,~.n..                                 .-      Jo-  .
-lo   dHmoh-k                        D  E         gt         rPk4                                       2eibiZT   -                                                                                      gn                                18'30'-
Tibx0x_ SE                                                                                                                                                                                   Les ; G R  A A N
_n   d ^                   r 8 Cnf. JOUb     Ue v Voch                                                                                                                                                {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d N
74 30                                   740),i              doSo ,AJUBSLAN                                                                                            tt7200                                             Anr. o PLbn /
r    I  s                    I                                         I                                        I                                                                  jUNE 199'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNE19



