CREDIT NUBER2E  -HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic and Social Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated Ffw"Za         (    , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBERZ?0 S HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   9:;-> k o.1G'. -         , 1991, between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the Borrower) and    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to about ten million four hundred thousand dollars ($10,400,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
IDB; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Gourde" means the unit of the currency of the Borrower;
(b)   "ESF" means Le Fonds d'Assistance Economigue et Sociale,
the Borrower's Economic and Social Fund, a public entity with
juridical personality as well as administrative, technical and
financial autonomy, established by the Borrower's Decree dated
May 28, 1990, published in Le Moniteur of June 3, 1990 (hereinafter


﻿-2-
the Decree), and operating within the jurisdiction of the Borrower's
Ministry of Economy and Finance;
(c)   "Central Bank" means La Bandue de la Reublique dj'Haiti,
the Borrower's Central Bank;
(d)   "Operational Manual" means the manual put into effect
by ESF pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement,
that sets forth the rules and procedures for ESF operation within
the framework of the Decree referred to in paragraph (c) above,
including appraisal of Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined), eligi-
bility and evaluation criteria for such Sub-projects, procedures and
selection for eligibility criteria for, Delegated Entities and, when
warranted, mechanisms for cost recovery to ensure sustainability of
Sub-project positive effects;
(e)   "Supervision Contract" means each of the agreements
that, pursuant to the provisions of the proviso to paragraph 3 (b)
(ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, will be entered into between,
inter alia, ESF and a party other than the Executing Entity commit-
ting supervision services thereunder;
(f)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
which currently begins on October 1 in each calendar year;
(g)   "ESF Contractual Arrangement" means the contractual
arrangements to be entered into between the Bjrrower and ESF
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance granted
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated April 25, 1990 and May 23, 1990 between the Borrower
and the Association;
(i)   "Beneficiary Community" means a community, selected in
accordance with the Operational Manual, for the benefit of which an
Approved Sub-project will be carried out in the health, education
or infrastructure sectors;
(j)   "Requesting Entity" means any governmental entity, or
a non-governmental entity which either intends to execute the Sub-
project (as hereinafter defined) by itself or has appointed other
non-governmental entity which meets the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual for the purpose of carrying out the
Sub-project the approval of which is being, will be or has been


﻿- 3 -
requested; "Delegated Entity" means any non-governmental entity
which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual for the carrying out of a given Approved Sub-project (as
hereinafter defined), that has been appointed therefor by a
Requesting Entity and that has accepted such appointment; and
"Executing Entity" means, as applicable, a non-governmental entity
that carries or will carry the Approved Sub-project in question by
itself, or a Delegated Entity.
(k)   "Sub-project" means a set of activities related to
health and/or nutrition, education, or infrastructure, or to the
institutional strengthening of an Executing Entity, selected in
accordance with the Operational Manual, and that is to be carried
out by an Executing Entity and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit; "Free-limit Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so
defined, that is not one of the first thirty Sub-projects (including
at least one Sub-project of each of the types of Sub-projects
referred to above) which have been approved in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, or a Sub-project,
as so defined, the estimated cost of which does not exceed the
equivalent of $100,000; and "Approved Sub-project" means a Free-
limit Sub-project, as so defined, or a Sub-project that is not a
Free-limit Sub-project and has been approved by the Association
pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(1)   "Sub-project Agreement" means the agreement or agree-
ments to be entered into between ESF and an Executing Entity, in
respect of an Approved Sub-project, and, where applicable, a con-
tractor other than the Executing Entity who also commits services
for the execution of civil works under such Approved Sub-project,
as such agreement or agreements may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the


﻿Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charget thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on December 1 and June 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each December 1 and June 1 commencing
June 1, 2001 and ending December 1, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on December 1, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at' any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.09. The General Director of ESF, or the person or
persons appointed by such General Director, jointly with the person
or persons appointed by the representative of the Borrower under


﻿-6-
Section 8.01 of this Agreement, are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through ESF
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and managerial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the f-ids, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through
ESF in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Association, with ESF (the ESF Contractual Arrangement)
providing, inter alia, for:
(A)    the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a
grant basis to ESF for purposes of carrying out
the Project; and
(B)    the obligation of ESF to take all such action as
shall be required to enable the Borrower to carry
out the Project in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, includ-
ing, but not limited to, those set forth in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
(d)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ESF
Contractual Arrangement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
ESF Contractual Arrangement or any provision thereof.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. During execution of the Project and until the
completion thereof, the Borrower shall, or shall cause ESF, as the
case may be:
(a)   to keep all of the positions of Department Directors,
and ESF General Director, filled with employees possessing
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association, to
consult with the Association with respect to replacement of any
such key personnel prior to any such replacement, and not to
terminate the services of any ESF's General Director without IDA's
acquiescence; and
(b)   to employ any fixed-term staff whose salary is intended
to be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit
with persons having qualifications and experience, and on terms and
conditions of employment, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to or restriction upon its
other reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this
Agreement, the Borrower shall inform, and shall cause ESF to prompt-
ly inform, the Association of any condition which interferes, or
threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project or the Sub-
projects, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by ESF of its obligations under the ESF Contractual
Arrazgement, or the performance by ESF and the applicable Executing
Entities of their respective obligations under Sub-project Agree-
ments or the performance by the parties to a Supervision Contract.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-projects will be identified,
appraised and carried out in accordance with the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(b)   the Borrower shall cause ESF: (i) to ensure that the
Operational Manual is maintained in effect until the date on which
the report referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions has been furnished to the Association; and
(ii) not to abrogate, waive, or modify the Operational Manual
without the Association's concurrence.
Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation or restriction to the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
and the Association agree to undertake, jointly with ESF, not later
than December 31, 1992 a review of the progress of the Project,


﻿-8-
based on performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank and
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; and
(b)   the Borrower shall promptly undertake or shall cause
ESF to promptly undertake or to cause the corresponding Requesting
Entity or Executing Entity, or both, as the case may be, to under-
take such modifications in the execution of the Project as shall be
necessary, in the Association's opinion, as a result of the review
referred to in paragraph (a) above, for the achievements of the
objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ESF to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordince with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of ESF,
including separate records and accounts to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the different Parts of the
Project, including each Approved Sub-project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause ESF to:
(i)    have the records and accounts, and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) of ESF
referred to in paragraph (a) above, for each
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the en1 of each such Year: (A) certified copies
of the financial statements mentioned in (i)
above for such Year as so audited; and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial


﻿9-
statements and the audit thereof as the Associa-
tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause ESF to:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the Fiscal
Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the Association's representatives    to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that s-ch   records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such Fiscal Year, together
with the procedures and internal controls in-
volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ESF:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with the Decree, the Operational Manual and sound
administrative, financial and managerial practices, all under the


﻿- 10 -
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its offices,
machinery, equipment, vehicles, and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and managerial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Decree shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of ESF to perform any of its obligations under the
ESF Contractual Arrangement or any Sub-project Agreement or the
obligations of an Executing Entity under one or more Sub-project
Agreements;
(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ESF;
(c)   disbursements under the IDB Loan shall have not become
permitted by June 30, 1991, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
and
(d)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the IDB Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
or


﻿- 11 -
(B)   the IDB Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that: (A) such sus-
pension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the ESF Contractual Arrangement has been entered
into between the Borrower and ESF; and
(b)   that the Operational Manual has been put into effect by
ESF in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the ESF Contractual Arrangement has been
duly authorized or satisfied by, and is legally binding upon ESF and
the Borrower in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 12 -
Section 7.03. The date of V/A^    ) 1> (9 9/      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministbre de l'Economie et des Finances
Palais des Ministbres
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                       Telex:
Minist&re de l'Economie         2030347
et des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Facsimile:
231247


﻿- 13 -
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Wa'3hington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Facsimile:
202-676-0861
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                      *.480 6 . S        h
3t41 .  Regional Vice President
Lati America and the Caribbean


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit              % of
Allocated        Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category              SDR Equivalent)      Financed
(1)   Approved
Sub-projects
under Part A
of the Project:
(a) Health care          4,300,000        100%
(b) Education            1,600,000
(c) Infrastructure         700,000
(d) Technical               60,500        100%
assistance
(2)   Institutional
strengthening of
ESF under Part B
of the Project:
(a) Consultants'            70,000        100%
services


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit              % of
Allocated        Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category             SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(b) Furniture,              100,800       100%
equipment and
vehicles
(c) Salaries and            426,000       100%
operating
costs
(3)   Refunding of                530,000      Amount due
Project Preparation                       pursuant to
Advance                                   Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(4)   Unallocated                 112,700
TOTAL                     7,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Salaries and
operating costs" means salaries for professional (during first year
after Effective Date only) and support staff of ESF, and reasonable
costs for operation and maintenance of ESF facilities, vehicles and
equipment.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and
except otherwise agreed by the Association, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(b)   an Approved Sub-project unless: (i) the Sub-project is
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Opera-
tional Manual; and (ii) the respective Sub-project Agreement has
been signed; provided, however, that whenever required by the Opera-
tional Manual, the Supervision Contract providing for the services
of an entity (other than the Requesting Entity or Delegated Entity
in question) that shall commit its services to supervise, partially


﻿- 16 -
or totally, the execution of the Approved Sub-project in question,
shall be part of the corresponding Sub-project Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) establishing ESF as a means of responding efficiently and in a
decentralized manner to the basic need of the nation's poor through
non-governmental organizations, including cooperatives, organized
community groups and other grass root organizations; (ii) streng-
thening health care, nutrition and education services (primarily in
respect of infants and pregnant and lactating women) and providing
physical infrastructure addressing the needs of the poorest popula-
tion; (iii) providing an effective channel for required donor
financing and coordination of scattered domestic efforts; and
(iv) strengthening the capabilities of ESF and Delegated Entities
for project preparation and implementation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time te time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Approved Sub-projects
Financing and carrying out of Approved Sub-projects within
Beneficiary Communities, and of specific projects in the health
and nutrition, education and infrastructure sectors financed under
the IDB Loan in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in the agreement providing therefor.
Part B:     Institutiona1 Development
Strengthening the capabilities of ESF by means, inter alia
of:
1.    acquisition and utilization of vehicles for Project super-
vision, micro-computers, office equipment and supplies; and
2.    provision of technical assistance services to enable ESF to
establish: (i) an information system and data base intended to
enhance ESF's ability to design, target, monitor and evaluate Sub-
projects; (ii) an accounting system; and (iii) a costing mechanism.


﻿- 18 -
Part C:      Studies
Execution of studies under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association on:
1.    means and ways for enhancing the targeting of the use of ESF
resources; and
2.    impact of the Approved Sub-projects on the corresponding
Beneficiary Communities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for micro-computers and
vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for works estimated to cost more than the equivalent
of $50,000 per contract but less than the equivalent of $2,500,000
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less may be awarded after direct negotiations with
contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, provided that the contracts so awarded does not exceed:
(i) during the same calendar year, in the aggregate per contractor,
the equivalent of $200,000; and (ii) in the total aggregate, the
equivalent of $6,300,000.
3.    Subject to paragraph 4 below only in respect of Approved Sub-
projects, goods or groups of goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Goods or groups of goods under Approved Sub-projects estimated
to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less may be procured under
contracts awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, after
having received offers from at least three eligible suppliers under
the Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the


﻿- 20 -
Association, provided that the contracts so awarded do not exceed,
in the aggregate, the equivalent of $2,300,000.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
awarded under Part A hereof and to the first two contracts awarded
without objection from the Association under Parts B.1 and B.3
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelies.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ and shall cause ESF, and the Executing
Entities in respect of the execution of Approved Sub-projects, to
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-
project (a) estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $100,000
or (b) that is one of the first 30 Sub-projects approved by ESF in
accordance with the Operational Manual or (c) that is the first Sub-
project in the health and nutrition sector or in the education
sector or in the infrast-ucture sector shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, unless the Sub-project
in question shall have been approved by the Association.
2.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-project to the Association for
approval, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause ESF to furnish
to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with: (i) a description of the Requesting
Entity, the Executing Entity (in the cases where the services of a
Delegated Entity are being utilized) and the Sub-project Agreement
it is intended to be used, and an appraisal of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Applications   and  requests  made  pursuant  to   the
provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be presented
to the Association on or before April 30, 1994.
3.    The Sub-project Agreements shall be made on terms consistent
with models satisfactory to the Association, whereby ESF shall
obtain, inter alia, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and ESF, including the right to:
(a)   require the Executing Entity, as the case may be, to
carry out the Sub-project, and the applicable contractor, if any,
to execute the corresponding civil works, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Sub-project;


﻿- 22 -
(c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)   require that: (i) the Executing Entity or the contrac-
tor, as applicable, shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) with-
out any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the insurance beneficiary to replace or
repair such goods;
(e)   obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation or ESF shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Executing Entity, and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-
project; and
(f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Requesting Entity,
or Delegated Entity or contractor, as applicable, to the use of the
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by the party in question to
perform its obligations under its contract with ESF or upon the
failure by any party to a Supervision Contract to perform its
obligations thereunder.
4.    Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Sec-
tions 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Condi-
tions and of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall furnish or shall cause ESF to furnish to the Association,
during the execution of the Project, quarterly monitoring reports
on the progress of the Project on all areas of ESF operations and
on sources and use of ESF funds, starting on a date six months from
the Effective Date, in such scope and detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
5.    The Borrower shall: (i) prepare or cause ESF to prepare, and
furnish to the Association for review and approval every six months,
starting on a date six months from the Effective date: (a) a report
showing the geographical and sectoral distribution of Approved Sub-
projects and (b) a report on procurement performance, including a
review of the unit price mechanism for direct contracting; and (ii)


﻿- 23 -
put into effect the corrective actions thereof, in a manner satis-
factory to the Association, if any, to improve targeting of ESF
resources, or the procurement performance.
6.    The Borrower shall submit or shall cause ESF to submit for
review to the Association, in a timely fashion, and by December 15,
1993, respectively, the terms of reference for the carrying out of
Part C.1 and Part C.2 of the Project and, by June 30, 1991 and
December 31, 1994, shall complete the execution of Part C.1 and
Ptrt C.2 of the Project, respectively.
7.    The Borrower shall: (i) submit or shall cause ESF to submit
to the Association in a timely fashion a proposed costing mechanism
to be utilized in connection with col-tracts to be awarded under
Section I, Part B.2 of Schedule 3 to ;his Agreement; (ii) review
with the Association such proposal upon the latter's request; and
(iii) put into effect by not later than April 30, 1991, or such
later date as agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the
costing mechanism for the aforesaid purposes which shall be
acceptable to the Association. The mechanism in question shall be
reviewed and, if warranted revised, to ensure at all times that it
remains acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(2)   The provisions of Section 5.04 of the General Conditions
shall be deemed applicable also to reallocation of funds from one
sub-category of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to
another sub-category of such Schedule.
(3)   The words "the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with
respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount
of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section
6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 2 (b)
of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, the
Association shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit:
(i) have received no applications permitted under sub-
paragraph (a) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
applications, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the right to submit such applications or to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Credit
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


