l~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                   AWorld Fro of Povorly
41foShop
11). 'Wmil Lnk
Report No AB65
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name               KOSOVO-Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project II
Region                     Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                     General energy sector (100%)
Project ID                 P079019
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN KOSOVO
Implementing Agency        UNMIK, KTA, KEK
Address                     UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO
Address 1, Mother Theresa Street, Pristina
Contact Person. Mr. Andy Bearpark, Deputy Special Representative of the
Secretary General
Tel 381-38-500-400 ext 5640   Fax 1 (212) 963 8113     Email
bearpark@un.org
KOSOVO TRUST AGENCY
Address Green Building ' Duhani"
Str. Vellusha, no 5, Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person Mr Marko Kosir, Energy Division Manager
Tel. 381 38 504 604, ext 116  Fax 381-38-248-076     Email
marko kosir@eumik org
KORPORATA ENERGJETIKE E KOSOVES (KEK)
Address Toskana Building Str Mother Tereza 36 Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person Mr. Ali Hamiti, Director(Operations)
Tel 381 38 229 010    Fax 381 38 27 156     Email
alihamiti@kek-energy com
Environment Category       C
Date PID Prepared          April 21, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        April 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date         June 17, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Introduction: Present Situation of the Energy Sector.The Kosovo energy sector has suffered from
conflict damage, loss of mobile equipment, and lack of maintenance and poor management dating back to
before the conflict of 1998-99. Poor performance of its thermal generation plants, a major accident
caused by a landslide of overburden at Bardh coal mine in November 2002, and a lightening-induced fire
at Kosovo B (its main power generation plant), are manifestations of years of neglect in maintenance.
The following provides a brief description of the current situation of the sector.
Electricity.



2
PID
Generation assets are old and almost entirely lignite baseElectricity in Kosovo is produced by two
lignite-fired thermal power plants, Kosovo-A (comprising of five units for a total capacity of 800 MW,
mostly very old plants) and Kosovo-B (comprising of 2 units of 339 MW each, of about 15 year vintage)
and the Ujman hydropower plant (about 35 MW). After the recent lightning-induced fire accident at
Kosovo B, a program of its repair and rehabilitation is under implementation. All the five units of
Kosovo A are also under different stages of refurbishment. After completion of this rehabilitation
program, about 1100 MW of maximum capacity (up from 840 MW currently available) is projected to be
available, though one should treat it with some caution due to unpredictable reliability of old plants after
repairs.
Poor capacity utilization leads to shortages. Before the conflict, annual electricity generation was about
4,500 GWh, which went down to about 1,900 GWh in 2000. Since then it has been steadily improved to
about 2,600 GWh in 2001, and about 3,100 GWh in 2002. The energy consumption, constrained by
supply shortages, has increased from about 2,900 GWh in 2000 to about 3,300 GWh in 2002. Only about
53% of the electricity supplied was billed in 2001 (technical and nontechnical losses were 47%) and only
64% of the amount billed was collected. In 2002, the losses came down to about 41%, and of the 59%
energy billed only 59% was collected.
Adverse changes in consumer-mix Over the last 10 years, the consumer mix of KEK has changed to its
detriment- away from high value, high volume industrial consumers to subsidized and low voltage
consumers such as households. The household share of consumption rose from 26% to 75%, while
industry's share fell from 67% to 12%. The use of electricity for heating accounts for about 64% of the
quantity supplied. The electrification rate in Kosovo is close to 100% and KEK has about 360,000
customers.
Network is in poor conditionMost of the transmission lines are now in operation following
post-conflict repairs, but the substations are still in bad technical condition. The transmission system is
interconnected with all the neighboring systems, and the 400 kV lines are important for power exchanges
between the power systems of the Second Synchronous Zone of the Union for the Coordination of
Transmission of Electricity (UCTE). Conflict damage affected about 30% of the distribution network.
District Heating. District heating systems in Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovicasupply heated water from
heavy fuel-oil fired boilers, meeting about 5% of the heat demand in Kosovo. The systems did not incur
much damage during the conflict, but they have suffered from years of neglect, lack of maintenance and
under-investment, combined with poor operating techniques.
Lignite. Kosovo possesses one of the most favorable and very large lignite deposits in Europe. Prior to
the conflict, the Mirash and Bardh mines produced about two-thirds of their rated capacity of 16.7
million tons per year. Although there were no conflict-related physical damages in the mines, all mobile
equipment had been taken out of Kosovo by the end of the conflict. Overburden removal had been
neglected for years. As a result, the mining fronts were steep and unstable. There was considerable
smoldering of coal remnants, caused by self-ignition. After the lost equipment was replaced and urgent
repairs carried out, production had reached a level of about 3 million tons per year but will again decline
substantially due to a major accident caused by landslide of overburden, after heavey rains in November
2002.
Oil and Gas. Kosovo has no known indigenous oil or gas resources and no oil refinery. It depends
entirely on imported petroleum products, and consumes about 400,000 tons per year. A gasification plant



3
PID
at Kosovo A used to extract low calorie gas from lignite. The gas was used by local industries and some
was shipped by pipeline to Skopje. The gasification plant and the Kosovo portion of the gas pipeline are
no longer functioning.
Fuel Wood. Fuel wood accounts for over 20% of energy consumption in Kosovo, with the wood being
used mainly for cooking and space heating by households. Fuel wood consumption is about equal to the
natural annual growth of forest stock. When account is taken of non-energy demands for wood plus the
possibility of future increased demand for wood for energy use there appears to be a potential problem of
increasing deforestation.
Energy Sector Study.
In accordance with a program for reconstruction and recovery in Kosovo agreed at a Donors' Conference
in Brussels on November 17, 1999, a technical assistance project was financed by the Bank to help
develop a strategy for the energy sector.
The technical assistance involved preparation of an Energy Sector Study focusing on: (i) defining a
least-cost investment program for rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion of the energy sector over a
period of 15 years; and (ii) preparing recommendations for institutional strengthening and the sector
reforms. A draft report covering the 13 modules of the study was presented in a seminar held in Pristina
in September, 2002.  More than 100 participants representing UNMIK, donors, KTA, utility
management, civic society, and the private sector participated. The recommendations of the study were
endorsed, and the report has since been finalized and accepted by UNMIK. The main issues identified by
the study and its recommendations are as follows:
Large needs for physical rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion in the power and linked lignite
sectors. While substantial investments have been carried out since the end of the conflict, much more is
needed. In addition, old generation plants will need to be phased out in a few years and replaced with
new plants. If new generating units are chosen, should they be lignite power plants, hydropower plants,
or perhaps gas-fired plants using imported natural gas?
Self-sufficiency vs. regional coordination in electricity supply. For meeting its peak demand, Kosovo is
confronted with a "make or buy" decision. Should Kosovo invest in its own generation plants or procure
its power through trade with neighboring power systems? If so, what arrangements should be made to
provide for this trade and what would the related investments be?
The possible role of natural gas. As mentioned above, Kosovo does not have domestic natural gas
resources, nor does it import gas. However, gas is used in neighboring Serbia, the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia and Greece. Would it be economic to bring gas to Kosovo, and, if so, in what
sectors and areas would the gas be best used, and what investments and institutional arrangements would
it be desirable to make?
Fuel substitution for heating The main sources of energy used for heating in Kosovo, especially by
households, are fuel wood and electricity.  The use of fuel wood is polluting and can lead to
deforestation. Electricity is normally more expensive for heating than substitute forms of energy, but in
Kosovo its use has grown rapidly, in part because consumers have been able to get electricity at little or
no cost by by-passing their meters, making illegal connections and not paying their electricity bills.
What forms of energy, if any, are economically competitive with electricity and fuel wood in Kosovo,
and what measures should be taken to encourage them?



4
PID
Financial performance of KEK Though nominal tariffs levied by KEK are reasonable, it suffers from
large technical and nontechnical losses. Illegal connections, tampering of meters, inefficient use of
electricity due to unmetered supply, and poor collection have led to poor financial performance of KEK.
Its systems, business processes, and internal controls are also inadequate for a modern commercially
oriented utility.
Environmental Issues. Environmental issues are important especially with respect to lignite mining and
the burning of lignite at Kosovo A and B. What standards should be adopted to regulate environmental
impacts?
Attracting private sector investment Since vast deposits of lignite are a major natural resource available
in Kosovo, there is a strong desire to utilize it for economic development. Kosovo does not have financial
resources to develop coal mines and power plants, and therefore has to try to attract private capital. The
most plausible opportunities are in inviting private investment in export oriented private power
generation projects. However, the policy and legal framework for private investment, particularly in
large infrastructure projects, is either unclear or absent.
The need to re-establish andfurther develop an institutionalframeworkfor the energy sector At the end
of the conflict, there was virtually no administrative structure in Kosovo, and UNMIK temporarily
assumed the role that elsewhere would be performed by a government. Before the conflict, the Kosovo
power system was managed from Belgrade. By the time the conflict ended, the local managers had left
and the system data had been lost. UNMIK created the Power Company of Kosovo (KEK) as a new
power utility and re-established basic functions such as billing customers.
Recommendations of the Study
Electricity. On the basis of the least-cost power generation investment program determined for the
medium electricity demand growth scenario (based on GDP growth of 6% per year), the additions to
domestic generating capacity could be postponed to 2013 if an appropriate scheme of electricity
exchanges (export during non-peak hours and import during peak hours) can be established with
neighboring systems, all the generation plants fully rehabilitated, and tranmission investments made. The
power transmission master plan identifies the need for substantial investments in substations and
transmission lines. One question requiring further study concerns whether investments are needed for
new transmission system interconnection facilities to accommodate the power exchanges identified as
required in the least-cost power generation investment program. It would also be desirable to determine
the limits within which electricity exchanges would be profitable for the both power systems involved, in
terms of the quantity of off-peak electricity which should be exchanged for a given amount of peak
electricity. The study recommends a new power dispatch system, including associated communication
facilities. The largest investments proposed are for the power distribution system, including installation
of meters for about 25% of the consumers who are, at present, provided unmetered supply.
Lignite From among the various lignite production scenarios analyzed, the study recommends a scenario
involving production of about 7.5 million tons per year, initially from the existing Mirash West, Bardh
and Brand mines, with exploitation of the Mirash East Mine starting in 2005, then substitution of lignite
production by the new Sibovc mine in 2017. However, once the currently ongoing assessment of the
damage the accident at Bardh mine, described in the previous section, is concluded it may warrant a
review of these assumptions and opening of Sibovc mine may become a priority.
District heating. The study proposes tailor-made district heating strategies for Pristina, Gjakova and
Mitrovica. The strategies involve rehabilitation, upgrading and a modest number of new connections.



5
PID
Consumers should be gradually provided with thermostatic radiator valves and heat allocators.
However, for Pristina the study suggests that if financing is available consideration could be given to
producing the hot water at Kosovo B and transporting it to Pristina by a new pipeline.
Natural gas. The study concludes that it would not be economic to introduce imported natural gas to
Kosovo at the present time. This finding is not surprising given the absence of demand for gas for power
generation prior to 2013 and the relatively low demand in industry and district heating. Nevertheless the
study recommends that the gas option be reviewed regularly since the situation could change due to
changing relative energy prices on international markets, the emergence of energy-intensive industry or
possible interest in constructing transit gas pipelines through Kosovo.
Fuel substitution The study finds that heating oil is the least-cost form of energy for space heating in
households if natural gas is not available. It makes several recommendations to encourage the use of
heating oil by households as a substitute for electricity and fuel wood. Its various recommendations to
reduce nontechnical losses of electricity and improve bill collection would contribute to this goal.
Recommendations on the petroleum side include: setting up new regulations concerning safety, security,
environmental impacts, and other matters affecting the Import, transportation, distribution and trade of
petroleum products; reducing taxes on heating oil; reallocating as much as possible of the petroleum
transportation to rail transport; establishing regular contacts with the Greek and Macedonian authorities
in order to avoid high transit fees; and establishing a Competition Council to overview the functioning of
the petroleum market.
Environment. Considerable attention is paid to environmental issues. For the coal sector the study has
recommended investment in extinguishing the coal mines fires, and that all of the 1,000 hectares of
outside dumps be reclaimed, with the land being brought into cultivation. Flue gas desulfurization was
not considered necessary because of the relatively low sulfur content of the coal and its relatively high
rate of bonding with ash and slag.
Institutional and Reform Measures. The report proposes a number of measures to improve efficiency,
focusing especially on reducing nontechnical power losses and improving collections. It recommends
reorganization of the production division of the coal mines. There are a number of recommendations on
establishing an effective and transparent regulatory framework for electricity, district heating and natural
gas.
Tariff structure.  The current electricity tariff level and structure were found to be largely in line with
the long-run marginal costs and the financial costs, requiring only minor modifications. The main
sources of KEK's financial difficulties are considered to be extremely high nontechnical power losses,
high technical losses, and a low bill collection rate. The study recommends a lifeline tariff block of 100
kWh/month, corresponding to the amount that would allow for lighting, basic appliances and a very
limited use of electricity for water heating and cooking. Different options are presented for financing the
subsidy involved in offering the lifeline block at a below-cost price.
Government Strategy
UNMIK will prepare and adopt an energy strategy based on the recommendations of the Energy Sector
Study some of which are described above. A Steering Committee comprising of representatives of PISG
(senior representatives of the Prime Minister, Ministers of Finance and Industry), UNMIK, KTA, KEK,
academia, NGOs, a commercial bank, and the donors has been formed to develop the energy sector
strategy which will be issued as " White Paper" of the government. To initiate discussion of various
complex issues that would be included in the strategy paper, a "Green Paper" has been prepared and



6
PID
disseminated for public consultation. A recently established division of UNMIK (Energy Office and
Central Regulatory Unit) will steer adoption of this strategy and prepare an implementation plan. The
initial views on the sector strategy emerging from these discussions indicate that Kosovo wants to
integrate into regional market, adopt an approach of regional development instead of creating capacity
within Kosovo to become self sufficient, and implement institutional measures such as creation of
regulatory agency, restructuring of KEK into separate cost centers and spinning off unviable business
activities.
2. Objectives
Assist in (i) developing capacity for a commercially sustainable exchange of power with the regional
system, and optimizing utilization of existing generation capacity through economic dispatch; and (ii)
developing a framework for attracting private sector investment in the energy sector.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The utility is operating in a survival mode and due to several years of neglect of maintenance it is now
focussing on rehabilitation of the system. Due to a recent fire accident at the Kosovo B thermal
generation plant, even the budgetary assistance meant for investment had to be diverted to pay for import
of electricity and repairing damage. Investments required for FY 2003, including deferred investments,
are about Euro 100 million. An alternative would be to finance physical rehabilitation but this option was
rejected since the available money (US$ 1.5 million) is too small relative to the total requirements to
have much of an impact.
Several areas such as energy policy, taxation on oil and gas ( which is leading to distortion in fuel
choices for heating), sector restructuring, preparation of distribution master plan, power plant efficiency,
energy savings in district heating, rehabilitation of coal mines and reclamation of dump areas of mines,
plan for fighting coal mine fire, renewable energy potential, were considered as candidates for technical
assistance. However to get the "biggest impact of the development dollars" technical assistance is
focussed on optimization of resources on a regional basis. Therefore the choice of a technical assistance
program that would help create necessary technical, commercial, and institutional capacity in the utility
to foster evolution of regional electricity market and help optimize utilization of resources available to
the constituent systems of the region.
The recommended option is to provide technical assistance to prepare a detailed feasibility report for a
400 kV interconnection between Kosovo and Albania; develop terms of power trading with neighboring
systems; establish a dispatch center in Kosovo; and assist in preparing a framework for attracting private
investment.
4. Description
Three components identified for technical assistance are: (i) preparing a detailed feasibility report for a
400 kV transmission interconnection between Kosovo and Albania taking into account a regional
perspective, and developing an approach for commercially sustainable terms of exchange of power with
the neighboring systems. The feasibility study will be done in coordination with Albania, (ii) preparing a
bankable project for establishment of a dispatch center in Kosovo, and (iii) assistance in developing a
policy, legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for private investment in energy sector.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT          $0.00
IBRD



PID
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT $1.50
Total Project Cost         $1 50
6. Implementation
The grant would be given to UNMIK. The project would be managed by KTA and UNMIK, who will be
responsible for selection of the consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines, supervision of their
work, evaluation of results of the technical assistance, assistance in disbursements, and preparation of
follow-up actions. KEK will be fully involved in the studies and will coordinate with its Albanian
counterpart KESH.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the technical assistance require that the recommendations and training provided under
the project is effectively used. Detailed feasibility reports for the transmission and for the dispatch center
will help mobilize financing for these investments, if political stability and economic recovery continues.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience with Bank-financed or Bank-managed technical assistance in other countries points to a need
for careful and realistic planning of the technical assistance and close monitoring of the consultants in
order to ensure that the tasks are completed on schedule. In the course of implementation of Energy
Sector Technical Assistance Project-I, mechanisms for close coordination with various functional
departments of UNMIK, KTA, the utility, several donors active in energy sector in Kosovo, and the civic
society have been established. The Bank's involvement in drafting clear and comprehensive Terms of
Reference, proposing realistic schedules, interim review of consultant's work with counterparts, and
coordination with donors was found to be necessary for timely implementation of the ongoing technical
assistance project. The Bank will be closely involved in implementation of the proposed project. To
avoid delays in implementation, the activities for selection of consultants will be carried out in parallel
with project processing.
In order to ensure that the technical assistance takes full account of conditions in Kosovo, and that the
results and recommendations are acceptable to the Recipient and the beneficiaries, representatives of
UNMIK, PISG, and KEK will be actively involved in all stages of the project. Close involvement of
KEK with the consultants will help provide on the job training to the counterpart staff.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : No environmental issues are anticipated. The consultants' terms of reference for the
feasibility study of the transmission line will include evaluation of possible environmental impact of each
of the alternatives to be studied, and recommendations on environmental safeguards to be included while
implementing the selected alternative.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mohinder P. Gulati
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433



8
PID
Telephone 1-202-473-321 1
Fax: 1-202-614-1585
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone. (202) 458-5454
Fax.   (202) 522-1500
Web. http:// www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  05/02/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here



