0C,s7.
ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                AWorld Free of PovPrty
lInfoShop
Tbr W4,rtd Ba3nk
Report No: AC57
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/02/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: KOSOVO                                  Project ID: P079019
Project: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project II  Task Team Leader: Mohinder P. Gulati
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 28, 2003      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 17, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m):
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT: 1.5
Managing Unit: ECS1E                             Sector: General energy sector (100%)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict
Status: Grant                                    reconstruction (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Assist in (i) developing capacity for a commercially sustainable exchange of power with the regional
system, and optimizing utilization of existing generation capacity through economic dispatch; and (ii)
developing a framework for attracting private sector investment in the energy sector.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Three components identified on the basis of the ESTAP-I Energy Sector Study (December, 2002) and
discussions with the Recipient are: (i) preparing a detailed feasibility report for a 400 kV transmission
interconnection between Kosovo and Albania taking into account a regional perspective, and developing
an approach for commercially sustainable terms of exchange of power with the neighboring systems.
The feasibility study will be done in coordination with Albania, (ii) preparing a bankable project for
establishment of a dispatch center at Kosovo, and (iii) assistance in developing a policy, legal, regulatory,
and institutional framework for private investment in energy sector.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
No physical investments are supported under the proposed grant. The transmission line for which the
feasibility study is proposed to be conducted, falls in geographic territory of Kosovo and Albania.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments. The project will provide technical assistance and there are no physical investments involved,
therefore the environmental category C is assigned



2
ISDS
C. Safeeuard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BlP/GP 4.01)   X                  Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
Il.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No environmental issues are anticipated. The consultants' terms of reference for the feasibility study of the
transmission line will include evaluation of possible environmental impact of each of the alternatives to be
studied, and recommendations on environmental safeguards that should be included while implementing the
selected alternative.
The detailed feasibility study for transmission line will include an assessment of possible social impact in
case any land needs to be acquired for the related sub-station, tower setting, and the right of way. These
issues will be included in the consideration and evaluation of options. The land acquisition procedures will
be reviewed. An assessment of social impacts would be required only when detailed route planning and
technical design is prepared for implementation.
II.D.Ib. Describe any potential curnulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N.A.
I1.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N.A.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N.A.
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues,
N A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders would be the UNMIK (Energy Office in particular), KTA, and KEK. They would
all participate in the project preparation, work directly with the consultants throughout the project



3
ISDS
implementation period and provide most of the data needed for the project. Assurance has been sought by
UNMIK from the Government of Albania for its participation and for support in conducting the
feasibility study for the transmission line.
While making an assessment of social impact as part of feasibility study, the consultants would be
required to consult with the local population and with the representatives of the civic society.
E. Safeguards Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[  SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. -No safeguard issues
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date



4
ISDS
Task Team Leader:              Mohinder P. Gulati                             April 2,2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                    Name                                           Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                                  April 14, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:        Henk Busz                                      April 10,2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
| 5EARV-     | I FEEDBACK      SE MAP FSHOWCASE



