Report No. PID11536
Project Name             KOSOVO-Energy Sector Technical...
Asistance Project II
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   General energy sector (100%)
Project ID               P079019
Borrower(s)              UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN KOSOVO
Implementing Agency
PISG, UNMIK, KTA, AND KEK
KOSOVO TRUST AGENCY
Address: Green Building " Duhani"
Str. Vellusha, no 5, Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Mr. Marko Kosir,
Energy Division Manager
Tel: 381-38-500-400 ext 116
Fax: 381-38-248-076
Email: marko.kosir@eumik.org
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION
MISSION IN KOSOVO.
Address: UNMIK, Pristina
Contact Person: Mr. Andy Bearpark,
Deputy Special Representative of the
Secretary General
Tel: 381 38 504 604, ext. 5640
Fax: 1 (212) 963 8113
Email: bearpark@un.org
Korporata Energjetike E Kosoves ( KEK)
Address: Toskana Building. Str. Mother
Tereza 36. Prishtina, Kosovo
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        December 19, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 19, 2003
Bank Approval Date       March 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Introduction : Present Situation of the Energy Sector. The Kosovo energy
sector has suffered from conflict damage, loss of mobile equipment, and
lack of maintenance and poor management dating back to before the conflict
of 1998-99. The following provides a brief description of the current
situation of the sector.
Electricity.
Generation assets are old and almost entirely lignite based.
Electricity in Kosovo is produced by two old lignite-fired thermal power
plants, with installed capacity of abut 1500 MW and a small (about 35 MW)
hydropower plant. After the recent lightning-induced fire accident at



Kosovo B, a program of its repair and rehabilitation is under
implementation. All the five units of Kosovo A are also under different
stages of refurbishment.
Poor capacity utilization leads to shortages. Electricity consumption in
2001 was about 3,100 GWh, which was met from 2,600 GWh of domestic
production and about 500 GWh of imports. Only about 53% of the
electricity supplied was billed in 2001 (technical and nontechnical losses
were 47T)  and only 655 of the amount billed was collected.
Adverse changes in consumer-mix. Over the last 10 years, the consumer mix
of KEK has changed to its detriment- away from high value, high volume
industrial consumers to subsidized and low voltage consumers such as
households.  The household share of consumption rose from 26% to 75%,
while industry's share fell from 67T to 12%.   The use of electricity for
heating accounts for about 64% of the quantity supplied. The
electrification rate in Kosovo is close to 100% and KEK has about 360,000
customers.
Network is in poor condition.    Most of the transmission lines are now in
operation following post-conflict repairs, but the substations are still
in bad technical condition. The transmission system is interconnected
with all the neighboring systems, and the 400 kV lines are important for
power exchanges between the power systems of the Second Synchronous Zone
of the Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity (UCTE).
Conflict damage affected about 30% of the distribution network.
District Heating. District heating systems in Pristina, Gjakova and
Mitrovica supply heated water from heavy fuel-oil fired boilers, meeting
about 5% of the heat demand in Kosovo. The systems did not incur much
damage during the conflict, but they have suffered from years of neglect,
lack of maintenance and under-investment, combined with poor operating
techniques.
Lignite. Kosovo possesses one of the most favorable and very large
lignite deposits in Europe. Prior to the conflict, the Mirash and Bardh
mines produced about two-thirds of their rated capacity of 16.7 million
tons per year. Although there were no conflict-related physical damages
in the mines, all mobile equipment had been taken out of Kosovo by the end
of the conflict. Overburden removal had been neglected for years. As a
result, the mining fronts were steep and unstable. There was considerable
smoldering of coal remnants, caused by self-ignition. After the lost
equipment was replaced and urgent repairs carried out, production has
reached a level of about 3 million tons per year.
Oil and Gas. Kosovo has no known indigenous oil or gas resources and no
oil refinery. It depends entirely on imported petroleum products, and
consumes about 400,000 tons per year. A gasification plant at Kosovo A
used to extract low calorie gas from lignite. The gas was used by local
industries and some was shipped by pipeline to Skopje. The gasification
plant and the Kosovo portion of the gas pipeline are no longer
functioning.
Fuel Wood.  Fuel wood accounts for over 20- of energy consumption in
Kosovo, with the wood being used mainly for cooking and space heating by
-2 -



households. Fuel wood consumption is about equal to the natural annual
growth of forest stock. When account is taken of non-energy demands for
wood plus the possibility of future increased demand for wood for energy
use there appears to be a potential problem of increasing deforestation.
Main Issues.
Because of conflict and years of neglect of maintenance, the sector
suffers from several complex issues. Major issues are briefly described
below:
Large needs for physical rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion in
the power and linked lignite sectors. While substantial investments have
been carried out since the end of the conflict, much more is needed. In
addition, old generation plants will need to be phased out in a few years
and replaced with new plants. If new generating units are chosen, should
they be lignite power plants, hydropower plants, or perhaps gas-fired
plants using imported natural gas?
Self-sufficiency vs. regional coordination in electricity supply. For
meeting its peak demand, Kosovo is confronted with a "make or buy"
decision. Should Kosovo invest in its own generation plants or procure its
power through trade with neighboring power systems? If so, what
arrangements should be made to provide for this trade and what would the
related investments be?
The possible role of natural gas.     As mentioned above, Kosovo does not
have domestic natural gas resources, nor does it import gas. However, gas
is used in neighboring Serbia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
and Greece. Would it be economic to bring gas to Kosovo, and, if so, in
what sectors and areas would the gas be best used, and what investments
and institutional arrangements would it be desirable to make?
Fuel substitution for heating. The main sources of energy used for
heating in Kosovo, especially by households, are fuel wood and
electricity. The use of fuel wood is polluting and can lead to
deforestation. Electricity is normally more expensive for heating than
substitute forms of energy, but in Kosovo its use has grown rapidly, in
part because consumers have been able to get electricity at little or no
cost by by-passing their meters, making illegal connections and not paying
their electricity bills. What forms of energy, if any, are economically
competitive with electricity and fuel wood in Kosovo, and what measures
should be taken to encourage them?
Financial performance of KEK. Though nominal tariffs levied by KEK are
reasonable, it suffers from large technical and nontechnical losses.
Illegal connections, tampering of meters, inefficient use of electricity
due to unmetered supply, and poor collection have led to poor financial
performance of KEK. Its systems, business processes, and internal controls
are also inadequate for a modern commercially oriented utility.
Environmental Issues. Environmental issues are important especially with
respect to lignite mining and the burning of lignite at Kosovo A and B.
What standards should be adopted to regulate environmental impacts?
- 3 -



The need to re-establish and further develop an institutional framework
for the energy sector. At the end of the conflict, there was virtually no
administrative structure in Kosovo, and UNMIK temporarily assumed the role
that elsewhere would be performed by a government. Before the conflict,
the Kosovo power system was managed from Belgrade. By the time the
conflict ended, the local managers had left and the system data had been
lost. UNMIK created the Power Company of Kosovo (KEK) as a new power
utility and re-established basic functions such as billing customers.
Energy Sector Study. In accordance with a program for reconstruction and
recovery in Kosovo agreed at a Donors' Conference in Brussels on November
17, 1999, a technical assistance project was financed by the Bank to help
develop a strategy for the energy sector.
The technical assistance involved preparation of an Energy Sector Study
focusing on: (i) defining a least-cost investment program for
rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion of the energy sector over a
period of 15 years; and (ii) preparing recommendations for institutional
strengthening and the sector reforms. The study addressed all of the above
issues. A draft report covering the 13 modules of the study was presented
in a seminar held in Pristina in September, 2002. More than 100
participants representing UNMIK, donors, KTA, utility management, civic
society, and the private sector participated. The recommendations of the
study were endorsed, and the final report has been submitted to the
client. The study's main findings and recommendations are as follows.
Electricity. On the basis of the least-cost power generation investment
program determined for the medium electricity demand growth scenario
(based on GDP growth of 6t per year), the additions to domestic generating
capacity could be postponed to 2013 if an appropriate scheme of
electricity exchanges (export during non-peak hours and import during peak
hours) can be established with neighboring systems. The power
transmission master plan identifies the need for substantial investments
in substations and transmission lines. One question requiring further
study concerns whether investments are needed for new transmission system
interconnection facilities to accommodate the power exchanges identified
as required in the least-cost power generation investment program. It
would also be desirable to determine the limits within which electricity
exchanges would be profitable for the both power systems involved, in
terms of the quantity of off-peak electricity which should be exchanged
for a given amount of peak electricity.    The study recommends a new power
dispatch system, including associated communication facilities. The
largest investments proposed are for the power distribution system,
including installation of meters for about 25t of the consumers who are,
at present, provided unmetered supply.
Lignite. From among the various lignite production scenarios analyzed,
the study recommends a scenario involving production of about 7.5 million
tons per year, initially from the existing Mirash West, Bardh and Brand
mines, with exploitation of the Mirash East Mine starting in 2005, then
substitution of lignite production by the new Sibovc mine in 2017. A
gradual downsizing of personnel in the range of 70t would be required to
be achieved by 2008 due to the fact that after 2007 the overburden removal
would significantly decrease. All of the lignite except about 0.5 million
tons per year would be used for domestic power generation.
- 4 -



District heating. The study proposes tailor-made district heating
strategies for Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovica. The strategies involve
rehabilitation, upgrading and a modest number of new connections.
Consumers should be gradually provided with thermostatic radiator valves
and heat allocators.    However, for Pristina the study suggests that if
financing is available consideration could be given to producing the hot
water at Kosovo B and transporting it to Pristina by a new pipeline.
Natural gas. The study concludes that it would not be economic to
introduce imported natural gas to Kosovo at the present time. This
finding is not surprising given the absence of demand for gas for power
generation prior to 2013 and the relatively low demand in industry and
district heating. Nevertheless the study recommends that the gas option
be reviewed regularly since the situation could change due to changing
relative energy prices on international markets, the emergence of
energy-intensive industry or possible interest in constructing transit gas
pipelines through Kosovo.
Fuel substitution. The study finds that heating oil is the least-cost
form of energy for space heating in households if natural gas is not
available. It makes several recommendations to encourage the use of
heating oil by households as a substitute for electricity and fuel wood.
Its various recommendations to reduce nontechnical losses of electricity
and improve bill collection would contribute to this goal.
Recommendations on the petroleum side include: setting up new regulations
concerning safety, security, environmental impacts, and other matters
affecting the import, transportation, distribution and trade of petroleum
products; reducing taxes on heating oil; reallocating as much as possible
of the petroleum transportation to rail transport; establishing regular
contacts with the Greek and Macedonian authorities in order to avoid high
transit fees; and establishing a Competition Council to overview the
functioning of the petroleum market.
Environment. Considerable attention is paid to environmental issues. For
the coal sector the study has recommended investment in extinguishing the
coal mines fires, and that all of the 1,000 hectares of outside dumps be
reclaimed, with the land being brought into cultivation. Flue gas
desulfurization was not considered necessary because of the relatively low
sulfur content of the coal and its relatively high rate of bonding with
ash and slag.
Institutional and Reform Measures. The report proposes a number of
measures to improve efficiency, focusing especially on reducing
nontechnical power losses and improving collections. It recommends
reorganization of the production division of the coal mines. There are a
number of recommendations on establishing an effective and transparent
regulatory framework for electricity, district heating and natural gas.
Tariff structure.     The current electricity tariff level and structure
were found to be largely in line with the long-run marginal costs and the
financial costs, requiring only minor modifications. The main sources of
KEK's financial difficulties are considered to be extremely high
nontechnical power losses, high technical losses, and a low bill
collection rate. The study recommends a lifeline tariff block of 100
kWh/month, corresponding to the amount that would allow for lighting,
- 5-



basic appliances and a very limited use of electricity for water heating
and cooking. Different options are presented for financing the subsidy
involved in offering the lifeline block at a below-cost price.
Government Strategy
UNMIK will prepare and adopt an energy strategy based on the
recommendations of the Energy Sector Study some of which are described
above. The strategy is currently under preparation and is expected to be
available for Bank's review by December 2002/January 2003 as agreed under
the Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the project are to assist in developing capacity for (a)
commercially sustainable exchange of power with the regional system, (b)
optimizing utilization of existing generation capacity through economic
despatch; and assist in institutional development of the power utility.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has extensive experience in supervising and monitoring studies
and technical assistance on the same topics in other transition countries,
including in the Balkans. The Bank's close involvement in Energy Sector
Technical Assistance Project-I, though effort intensive, has created
institutional knowledge, has established its donor coordination role and
is looked upon for bringing domain knowledge and long term view of the
strategic sector issues in the region as well as in Kosovo. This
experience would enable the Bank to provide useful advice during the
phases of finalization of the terms of reference, selection of the
consultants, carrying out of the studies, and implementation of the
results. The Bank's involvement in the project would also help to attract
well-qualified firms as bidders and help ensure that they prepare sound
proposals.
4. Description
Four components have been tentatively identified on the basis of the
Energy Sector Study and preliminary discussions with the Client. These
components will be further elaborated and firmed up during pre-appraisal
scheduled in December 2002/January 2003. The client will contribute in
kind by providing counterpart support. Cost estimates are also
preliminary and will become better determined when the scope of work is
fully defined. The project has four sub-components:
Detailed feasibility report for 400 kV connection between Kosovo B and
Kashar ( Albania).
Assistance in developing terms of exchange of power.
Detailed documentation to solicit contractors to establish dispatch center.
Institutional development support.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $0.00
IBRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT $1.50
Total Project Cost $1.50
-6-



6. Implementation
The grant would be given to UNMIK. The Kosovo Trust Agency and KEK would
be the implementing agencies. It is likely that there will be only two or
three large contracts for delivery of technical assistance and as in the
previous project UNMIK may request direct payment to the consultants.
Normal disbursement procedures will apply. The feasibility report,
preparation of terms of power exchange and documents for dispatch center
would be scheduled for completion by September, 2003. Institutional
development activity is likely to continue till March, 2004.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the technical assistance require that the
recommendations and training provided under the project is effectively
used. Detailed feasibility reports for the transmission and for the
dispatch center will help mobilize financing for these investments, if
political stability and economic recovery continues.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience with Bank-financed or Bank-managed technical assistance in
other countries points to a need for careful and realistic planning of the
technical assistance and close monitoring of the consultants in order to
ensure that the tasks are completed on schedule. In the course of
implementation of Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project-I, mechanisms
for close coordination with various functional departments of UNMIK, KTA,
the utility, several donors active in energy sector in Kosovo, and the
civic society have been established. The Bank's involvement in drafting
clear and comprehensive Terms of Reference, proposing realistic schedules,
interim review of consultant's work with counterparts, and coordination
with donors was found to be necessary for timely implementation of the
ongoing technical assistance project. The Bank will be closely involved in
implementation of the proposed project. In order to avoid delays in
implementation, the activities for selection of consultants will be
carried out in parallel with project processing.
In order to ensure that the technical assistance takes full account of
conditions in Kosovo, and that the results and recommendations are
acceptable to the Grantee and beneficiaries, representatives of KEK would
be actively involved in all stages of the project. Close involvement of
KEK with the consultants will help provide on the job training to the
counterpart staff.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No environmental issues are anticipated.    The
consultants' terms of reference for the feasibility study of the
transmission line will include evaluation of possible environmental impact
of each of the alternatives to be studied, and recommendations on
environmental safeguards to be included while implementing the selected
alternative.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mohinder P. Gulati
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-7-



Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1-202-473-3211
Fax: 1-202-614-1585
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
-8-



