                                              Document o f
                                          The WorldBank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                    ReportNo: 25690




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

              PROPOSEDINTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION GRANT

              INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR 1,100,000 (US$ 1.5MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

            TO UNITEDNATIONS INTERIMADMINISTRATION MISSIONINKOSOVO

                                    FORTHE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO

                                                FORAN

                     ENERGYSECTORTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT I1

                                              May 8,2003




Infrastructure and Energy Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europeand Central Asia Region


  This document hasa restricteddistributionand may be used by recipientsonly inthe performanceof
  their officialduties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankauthorization

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective May 8,2003)
                 CurrencyUnit = EURO
                    EURO 1.0 = US$1.135
                      US$1.0 = EUR00.880

                        FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 -- December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMZ                 Bundesministeriumfur wirtschaftliche
                    Zusammenarbeit (Ministryo f Economic Cooperation)
CPE                 Central Procurement Entity
CFA                 CentralFiscal Authority
EA                  Environmental Assessment
EAR                 European Agency for Reconstruction
EC                  European Commission
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
GTZ                 Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
                    GmbH(German Association for TechnicalCooperation)
KEK                  The Power Company o f Kosovo
KESH                 The Power Company o f Albania
KfW                  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Bank for Reconstruction)
NGOs                Non-Governmental Organizations
PMR                  Project Management Report
QCBS                 Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RFP                  Request for Proposals
SCADA                System Controland Data Acquisition
SEE-REM              South East Europe-Regional Electricity Market
TORS                 Terms o f Reference
UNMIK                UnitedNations InterimAdministration Mission inKosovo
USAID                UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment

                    WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

       kV                    Kilovolt
       k W                   EGlowatt
       Mw                    Megawatt = 1,000 kilowatts
       kWh                   Kilowatt hour
       GWh                   Gigawatt hour = 1million kWh


                Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn,ECAVP
      Country ManagedDirector:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
       Sector ManagerDirector:      Henk Busz, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Mohinder Gulati, ECSIE

                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                     KOSOVO
                         ENERGYSECTOR TECHNICALASSISTANCE PROJECT I1


                                                    CONTENTS




      A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

         1. Project development objective                                                       2
         2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

      B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
         3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9

      C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components                                                                  10
         2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       11
         3. Benefits and target population                                                      12
         4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                        12

      D.Project Rationale

         1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            13
         2. Major relatedprojects financed bythe Bank andor other development agencies          14
         3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  15
         4. Indicationso frecipient commitment and ownership                                    15
         5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         15

      E. Summary Project Analysis

         1. Economic                                                                           15
         2. Financial                                                                          16
         3. Technical                                                                          16
         4. Institutional                                                                      16
         5. Environmental                                                                      17
         6. Social                                                                             18
         7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                  19

      F. Sustainability and Risks

         1. Sustainability                                                                     19
         2. Critical risks                                                                     19

This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      20


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             20
  2. Other                                                                               20

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          20

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             21



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           31
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    32
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    33
          (B)Financial Management andDisbursement Arrangements                           37
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     40
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    41
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            44

                                                KOSOVO
                               Energy Sector TechnicalAssistance Project I1
                                   ProjectAppraisal Document
                                      Europe andCentralAsia Region
                                                 ECSIE

Date: May 8,2003                                     Team Leader: MohinderP. Gulati
Sector ManagedDirector: Henk Busz                    Sector(s): Generalenergy sector (100%)
Country ManagedDirector: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos      Theme(s): Conflict preventionandpost-conflict
Project ID: PO79019                                  reconstruction(P)
Lending Instrument: TechnicalAssistance Loan(TAL)
ProjectFinancingData
[ ] Loan      [ ] Credit   [XI Grant      [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): S1.50

BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                   0.00    1        0.00  I      0.00
D A GRANT FORPOST-CONFLICT                                          0.00              1S O         1.50
Total:                                                              0.00              1S O         1.50




      FY          2004       2005
         Annual                0.50
                     1.oo
                     1.oo
    Cumulative                 1S O

A. Project Development Objective

 1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Assist in (i)  developing capacity for a commercially sustainable exchange o f power with the regional
 system, and optimizing utilization o f existing generation capacity through economic dispatch; and (ii)
developing a framework for attracting private sector investment inthe energy sector.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

0    Timely preparation and acceptance of a detailed feasibility study for a transmission interconnection
     between Kosovo and Albania, and development o f commercially sustainable terms o f exchange of
     power with the neighboring power utilities.

0    A bankable proposalfor financing the establishment of a dispatch center inKosovo.

0    Delivery and acceptance o f a satisfactory report on a policy, legal, regulatory, and institutional
     framework for private sector investments inthe energy sector.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:R24275-KOS                Date of latest CAS discussion:July 25, 2002

Followingthe Kosovo conflict, a Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (R99-178) and its supplement
(R2000-130) supported a program o f post-conflict reconstruction and economic recovery up until
CY2001. Continuation o f Bank assistance through the use o f IDA grants for the remaining period o f the
reconstruction and recovery program (i.e. until end-2003) was endorsed by the Executive Directors on
July 25, 2002 with the Transition Support Strategy (R 24275-KOS). The overall objective is to support
sustainability o f the reconstructionand recovery program. The Bank would seek to maximize the impact
o f the limited resources it can make available, by selective use o f grant funds to focus on poverty
alleviation and limited budget support, and an extensive program o f analytical work. The Bank will
continue its donor coordination role. UNMIK has asked the Bank, and the Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS) affirms, that the Bank should assist in putting the energy sector on a sustainable path. The
proposed project, identified in the TSS, would follow up on the recently completed comprehensive
sector study. It would fund a feasibility study for priority investments in transmission, preparation o f a
bankable project for a dispatch center, assistance in establishing optimal exchange with the neighboring
systems, andpreparation o f a framework for attractingprivate sector investment inthe energy sector.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Introduction :Present Situation of the Energy Sector. The Kosovo energy sector has suffered from
conflict damage, loss o f mobile equipment,and lack o fmaintenance and poor management dating back to
before the conflict of 1998-99. Poor performance o f its thermal generation plants, a major accident
caused by a landslide o f overburden at Bardh coal mine inNovember 2002, and a lightning-induced fire
at Kosovo B (its main power generation plant), are manifestations o f years o f neglect in maintenance.
The following provides a briefdescriptiono fthe current situation o f the sector.

Electricity.

Generation assets are old and almost entirely lignite based. Electricity in Kosovo is produced by two
lignite-fired thermal power plants, Kosovo-A (comprising o f five units for a total capacity of 800 MW,


                                                    - 2 -

mostly very old plants) and Kosovo-B (comprising o f 2 units o f 339 MW each, o f about 15 year vintage)
and the Ujman hydropower plant (about 35 MW). After the recent lightning-induced fire accident at
Kosovo B, a program o f its repair and rehabilitation i s under implementation. All the five units o f
Kosovo A, and Kosovo B2 have been rehabilitated and rehabilitation o f Kosovo B 1 is expected to be
completed by July 2003. After completion of this rehabilitation program, about 1000 MW o f maximum
capacity (up from 620 MW currently available) is projected to be available, though one should treat it
with some caution due to unpredictable reliability o f old plants after repairs.

Poor capacity utilization leads to shortages. Before the conflict, annual electricity generation was about
4,500 GWh, which went down to about 1,900 GWh in 2000. Since then it has been steadily improvedto
about 2,600 GWh in 2001, and about 3,100 GWh in 2002. The energy consumption, constrained by
supply shortages, has increasedfrom about 2,900 GWhin2000 to about 3,300 GWh in2002. Only about
53% o f the electricity supplied was billed in2001 (technical and nontechnical losseswere 47%) and only
64% o f the amount billed was collected. In2002, the losses came down to about 41%, and o f the 59%
energy billed only 59% was collected.

Adverse changes in consumer-mix. Over the last 10 years, the consumer mix o f KEK has changed to its
detriment- away from high value, high volume industrial consumers to subsidized and low voltage
consumers such as households. The household share o f consumption increased from 26% to 75% and the
share o f services increased from 7% to 13%, while industry's share fell from 67% to 12%. The use o f
electricity for heating accounts for about 64% o f the quantity supplied, and the monthly energy
consumption in December i s almost two and half times that in July for the same reasons. The
electrificationrate inKosovo is close to 100%and KEK has about 360,000 customers.

Network is in poor condition. The total length o f transmission lines (400, 220 and 110 kV) is 1,162 km.
Most o f the transmission lines are now in operation following post-conflict repairs, but the substations
are still in bad technical condition. The transmission system is interconnected with all the neighboring
systems, and the 220 kV and 400 kV lines are important for power exchanges between the power systems
o f the Second Synchronous Zone o f the Union for the Coordination o f Transmission o f Electricity
(UCTE). The total length o f distribution lines i s about 29,000 km. Conflict damage affected about 30%
o f the distribution network.

Electricity supply and quality of service continues to be unsatisfactory. Inspite o f emergency
rehabilitation o f generation plants and the network, Kosovo continues to suffer from severe shortages.
Quite often the supply is regulated to two hours o f black out for every four hour o f supply, thereby
imposing huge economic costs. After some improvement in generation in the first half o f 2002, the fire
accident at Kosovo B in July 2002 and a coal mine accident in November 2002 set back the gains o f
initial improvements.     Import o f electricity worth about US$ 19 million helped Kosovo meet peak
requirements o f electricity for space heating during the winter months o f 2002-03, which is not a
sustainable situation. The quality o f supply also suffers due to poor maintenance o f the distribution
network and poor operating practices. Customer service i.e. metering, billing, collection, response time
to local technical faults, etc. i s also unsatisfactory and the power utility is genreally not perceived to be
responsive to customer complaints.

Lignite.          Kosovo possesses one o f the most favorable and very large (about 10,000 million tons)
lignite deposits in Europe. Prior to the conflict, the Mirash and Bardh mines produced about two-thirds
o f their production capacity o f 16.7 million tons per year. Although there were no conflict-related
physical damages in the mines, all mobile equipment had been taken out o f Kosovo by the end o f the
conflict. Overburden removal had been neglected for years. As a result, the mining fronts were steep



                                                       - 3 -

and unstable. This ledto a major accident inNovember 2002 inBar& coal mine where, after a few days
o f heavy rains, a landslide in the overburden led to extensive damage to equipment and closure o f the
mine. There is considerable smoldering o f coal remnants, causedby self-ignition. Despite actions taken
since the conflict, with financing made available by the EARand Germany to replace lost equipmentand
carry out urgent repairs, coal production was only about 5.5 million tons inFY 2002, which significantly
constrains electricity generation capacity.

District Heating.         District heating systems inPristina, Gjakova and Mitrovica supply heatedwater
from heavy fuel-oil fired boilers, meeting about 5% o f the heat demand in Kosovo. The Pristina system
serves about 12,000 apartments, the Gjakova system about 700 apartments and the Mitrovica system
about 160 apartments. The systems did not incur much damage during the conflict, but they have
suffered from years o f neglect, lack o f maintenance and under-investment, combined with poor operating
techniques. At the same time, the need for heat has increased since the large amount o f damage to
houses inrural areas has ledmany people to move into the cities.

Oil and Gas. Kosovo has no known indigenous oil or gas resources and no oil refinery. It depends
entirely on imported petroleumproducts, and consumes about 400,000 tons per year. A gasificationplant
at Kosovo A usedto extract low calorie gas from lignite. The gas was used by local industries and some
was shippedby pipeline to Skopje. The gasification plant and the Kosovo portion o f the gas pipeline are
no longer functioning.

Fuel Wood Fuel wood accounts for over 20% o f energy consumption in Kosovo, with the wood being
used mainly for coolung and space heatingby households. Fuel wood consumption is about equal to the
natural annual growth o f forest stock. When account i s taken o f non-energy demands for wood plus the
possibility o f future increased demand for wood for energy use, there appears to be a potential problem
o f increasing deforestation.

Energy Sector Study.
Inaccordancewith aprogramfor reconstructionand recovery inKosovo agreedat a Donors'Conference
inBrussels onNovember 17, 1999, a technical assistanceproject was financedby the World Bank Trust
Fundfor Kosovoto help develop a strategy for the energy sector.

The technical assistance involved preparation o f an Energy Sector Study focusing on: (i)defining a
least-cost investment program for rehabilitation, reconstructionand expansion o f the energy sector over a
period o f 15 years; and (ii)  preparing recommendations for institutional strengthening and the sector
reforms. A draft report covering the 13 modules o f the study was presented in a seminar held in Pristina
in September, 2002.        More than 100 participants representing UNMIK, donors, KTA, utility
management, civic society, and the private sector participated. The recommendations o f the study were
endorsed, and the report has since been finalized and accepted by UNMIK.The main issues identified by
the study and its recommendations are as follows:

Main Issues.

Large needs for physical rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion in the power and linked lignite
sectors. While substantial investments have been carried out since the end o f the conflict, much more i s
needed. Major future investments should bejustified interms o f an overall least-cost strategy for future
sector development.      Questions arise concerning the rate o f growth o f energy demand, especially
electricity demand, and when to retire existing power generating units. If new generating units are
chosen, should they be lignite power plants, hydropower plants, or perhaps gas-fired plants using



                                                    - 4 -

 imported natural gas? ShouldKosovo construct its own power dispatching system?

Self-sufficiency vs. regional coordination in electricity supply. For meeting its peak demand, Kosovo i s
confrontedwith a "make or buy" decision. Should Kosovo invest in its own generation plants or procure
its power through trade with neighboring power systems? If so, what arrangements should be made to
provide for this trade and what would the related investmentsbe?

 The role of lignite. Ifthe existing coal-fired power plants are rehabilitated and if new coal-fired plants
are to be built, Kosovo's constrained ability to get financing for the investments in domestic lignite
production would be an issue. Another issue in lignite mining i s the potential for reducing cost o f
domestic production by commercializing and improving efficiency and productivity o f mining
operations.

The role of district heating. Questions arise conceming whether the existing district heating systems are
competitive with other forms o f energy, whether combined heat and power production would be a
cost-minimizing option, and what fuels should be usedto produce district heat.

The possible role of natural gas. As mentioned above, Kosovo does not have domestic natural gas
resources, nor does it import gas. However, gas is used in neighboring Serbia, the Former Yugoslav
Republic o f Macedonia and Greece. Would it be economic to bring gas to KOSOVO,          and, if so, in what
sectors and areas would the gas be best used, and what investments and institutional arrangementswould
it be desirable to make?

Fuel substitution for heating. The main sources o f energy used for heating in KOSOVO,        especially by
households, are fuel wood and electricity.       The use of fuel wood i s polluting and can lead to
deforestation. Electricity i s normally more expensive for heating than substitute forms o f energy, but in
Kosovo its use has grown rapidly, inpart because consumers have been able to get electricity at little or
no cost by by-passing their meters, making illegal connections and not paying their electricity bills.
What forms o f energy, if any, are economically competitive with electricity and fuel wood in KOSOVO,
and what measures should be taken to encourage them? In addition, what measures should be taken to
provide incentives for energy efficiency, particularly in space heating, since the existingbuildingstock as
well as new construction are not energy efficient.

Financial performance of KEK. Its tariff structure i s differentiated by consumer category, level o f
consumption and supply voltage, time o fuse and season. Nominal tariffs per kWhrange from equivalent
o f US cents 2.5 to 6 for high andmedium voltage consumers respectively, and U S cents 6 to a marginal
rate o f US cents 12.5 for residential consumers (higher tariff is for consumption exceeding 800 kWhper
month inwinter at peak time). Average realization in2002 was US cents 5.4 per kWh. Though nominal
tariffs leviedby KEK are adequate to cover costs, it suffers from large technical and nontechnical losses.
Illegal connections, tampering with meters, inefficient use o f electricity due to unmetered supply, and
poor collection have led to poor financial performance o f KEK. Its systems, business processes, and
internal controls are also inadequate for a modem commercially oriented utility. After considerable
delay, the audit o f KEK's financial accounts has been recently completed and submitted by the auditors
for management'sreview.

Environmental Issues. Environmental issues are important especially with respect to lignite miningand
the burningof lignite at Kosovo A and B. What standards should be adopted to regulate environmental
impacts?

Attractingprivate sector investment. Since vast deposits o f lignite are a major natural resource available

inKosovo, there is a strongdesire to utilizeit for economic development. Kosovodoes nothave financial
resources to develop coal mines and power plants, and therefore has to try to attract private capital. The
most plausible opportunities are in inviting private investment in export oriented private power
generation projects. However, the policy and legal framework for private investment, particularly in
large infrastructureprojects, i s either unclear or absent.

The need to re-establish andfurther develop an institutionalframework for the energy sector. At the end
o f the conflict, there was virtually no administrative structure in KOSOVO,    and UNMIK temporarily
assumed the role that elsewhere would be performed by a government. A government has now been
established, which, for the time being, shares responsibilities with UNMIK but the energy sector i s a
reserved subject and vests with the UNMIK. Immediately before the conflict, the Kosovo power system
was managed from Belgrade. By the time the conflict ended, the local managers had left and the system
data had been lost. UNMIK created the Power Company o f Kosovo (KEK) as a new power utility and
re-established basic hnctions such as billing customers. While UNMIK has supervisory control over
KEK and the other non-private energy sector companies, the issues concerning ownership of assets are
being clarified only gradually. The following sub-issues may be identified relating to institutional
strengthening, creation and development inthe energy sector:

(i) thenature andpaceofevolutionofaregulatoryframework for thepowerandlignite, district
heating andpetroleum sub-sectors, and for naturalgas inthe event that gas is imported;
(ii) consistentwithimprovement ininstitutionalcapacity, evolutionofKEKandtheother energy
sector companies, including possible new ones (e.g. for petroleum and natural gas), towards greater
autonomy, corporatization, commercializationand eventual competition and privatization; and
(iii) thecreationoftechnicalcapacityandinstitutionalframework(e.g. governmentbodyforpolicy
development, transmission system operator, modern dispatch center) for compliance with the
requirementsof South East Europe-Regional Electricity Market (SEE-REM) which Kosovo hasjoined in
November 2002.

Recommendationsof thestudy

Electricity. On the basis o f the least-cost power generation investment program determined for the
medium electricity demand growth scenario (based on GDP growth o f 6% per year), the additions to
domestic generating capacity could be postponed to 2013 if an appropriate scheme o f electricity
exchanges (export during non-peak hours and import during peak hours) can be established with
neighboring systems, Kosovo's generation plants are rehabilitated, and transmission interconnection is
built. Inthe highgrowth scenario, additions to power generating capacity could be postponed to 2009.
The power exchanges would require imports o f up to 300 MW while the exports can range between210
to 520 MW.

The power transmission master plan identifies the need for substantial investments in substations and
transmission lines. One question requiring further study concerns whether investments are needed for
new transmission system interconnection facilities to accommodate the power exchanges identified as
requiredin the least-cost power generation investmentprogram. Ifthe exchanges were with Serbia the
existing transmission facilities would be sufficient. But it i s doubtful whether Serbia would be able to
provide sufficient electricity at as low cost as other sources such as Albania. Because o f its
predominantly hydropower system, Albania would be able to supply electricity during peak periods as
long as it is compensatedby a larger amount o f electricity during off-peak periods. However, carrying
out the electricity exchanges with Albania would require the construction o f a new transmission line. An
analysis done in the study finds that a 400 KV transmission line from Kosovo B to Kashar, Albania
would be technically and economically preferable to either a new 220 kV interconnection between


                                                     - 6 -

Kosovo and Albania or a 400 kV interconnection between Podgorica, (Montenegro) and Kashar
(Albania). However, this analysis would need to be confirmed using a broader regional approach. It
would also be desirable to determine the limits within which electricity exchanges would be profitable
for the both power systems involved, in terms o f the quantity o f off-peak electricity which should be
exchanged for a given amount o fpeak electricity.

The study recommends a new power dispatch system, including associatedcommunicationfacilities.

The largest investments proposed are for the power distribution system. The mainwork would consist o f
carrying out a gradual transition from the 10 kV voltage level to the 20 kV voltage level together with a
phase-out o f the 35 kV level. There would also be expenditures on meters for customers who are
currently without them.

Lignite. Fromamong the various ligniteproduction scenariosanalyzed, the study recommends a scenario
involving production o f about 7.5 million tons per year, initially from the existing Mirash West, Bardh
and Brand mines, with exploitation o f the Mirash East Mine starting in 2005, then substitution o f lignite
production by the new Sibovc mine in 2017. However, once the currently ongoing assessment o f the
damage caused by the accident at Bardh mine, described in the previous section, i s concluded it may
warrant a review o f these assumptions and opening o f Sibovc mine may become a priority.          All of the
ligniteexcept about 0.5 million tons per year would be used for power generation.

District heating. The study proposes tailor-made district heating strategies for Pristina, Gjakova and
Mitrovica. The strategies involve rehabilitation, upgrading and a modest number o f new connections.
Consumers would be gradually provided with thermostatic radiator valves and heat allocators, and some
consumers would be provided with hot tap water. Conceming the production facilities, if natural gas is
made available the least-cost solution would be to convert the existing fuel-oil fired boilers to natural gas.
Ifgasisnot available the least-costsolutionwouldbeto continue withfuel oil.

Natural gas. The study concludes that it would not be economic to introduce imported natural gas to
Kosovo at the present time. This findingis not surprisinggiven the absence o f demand for gas for power
generation prior to 2013 and the relatively low demand inindustry and district heating. Nevertheless the
study recommends that the gas option be reviewed regularly since the situation could change due to
changing relative energy prices on international markets, the emergence o f energy-intensive industry or
possible interest in constructing transit gas pipelines through Kosovo.

Fuel substitution. The study finds that heating oil i s the least-cost form o f energy for space heating in
households if natural gas i s not available. It makes several recommendations to encourage the use o f
heating oil by households as a substitute for electricity and fuel wood. Its various recommendations to
reduce nontechnical losses o f electricity and improve bill collection would contribute to this goal.
Recommendations on the petroleum side include: setting up new regulations concerning safety, security,
environmental impacts, and other matters affecting the import, transportation, distribution and trade o f
petroleum products; reducing taxes on heating oil; reallocating as much as possible o f the petroleum
transportation to rail transport; establishing regular contacts with the Greek and Macedonian authorities
inorder to avoidhightransit fees; andestablishing a CompetitionCouncil to overview the functioning of
the petroleummarket. The study also recommends the phased establishment over the period 2002-2015
o f a 90-day compulsory oil stock in order to comply with requirements imposed on European Union
members.

Environment.     Considerable attention i s paid to environmental issues.         In the coal sector it is
recommended to spend USS 1.8 million to extinguish the coal mines fires, and that all o f the 1,000


                                                     - 7 -

hectares o f outside dumps be reclaimedwithin 10 years, with the land beingbrought into cultivation and
sold to the public. In the power sector it i s proposed to take the necessary actions to reduce pollution
nearly to the levels prescribed by EUstandards for existing plants, except for smaller units o f Kosovo A
which are expected to be phasedout by 2007. This would involve: reducing dust emissions from Kosovo
A3, A4 and A5 to below 100 mg/Nm3,and to below 50 mg/Nm3from Kosovo B after January 2008;
monitoring emissions o f dust and other pollutants; ensuring that the process water is neutralized;
rehabilitating ash transport; and considering measures to reduce NOx emissions if later investigations
show these to exceed limits defined by EU directives. Flue gas desulfurization was not considered
necessarybecause o f the relatively low sulfur content o f the coal and its relatively high rate o f bonding
with ash and slag. Recommendations are made with respect to the application o f the principles o f
sustainable forestry management, and energy conservation.

The recommended investments are summarized below:

                                          US$ million (Year 2002 Prices)
                         2003-2005        2006-2010         2011-1015      Total
Coal                       73                  16                 3             92
Total Power               267                193                 241          691
Power generation          39                  18                 93          149
Transmission              27                  27                 26            80
Distribution             177                 145                122          444
Dispatch                  14                   4                  0            18
District Heating          23                  11                  3            37
Petroleum                - 9 8 28
                          12
Total                    364                228                255           847

Oil stock                 17                  8                  9            34

The oil stock (as opposed to the facilities to store the oil) is assumedto be financedby the oil companies.

Policy framework for private investment.           The report suggests that in order to promote private
sector investments, an appropriate policy framework should be created that should include laws and
regulations to govem the investment process; institutions to manage the process; and the procedures to
facilitate investments.

Institutional and Reform Measures. The report proposes a number o f measures to improve efficiency,
focusing especially on reducing nontechnical power losses and improving collections. It recommends
establishment o f production, transmission, and distribution o f power as separate cost centers, and
reorganization of the production division o f the coal mines. There are a number o f recommendations on
establishing an effective and transparent regulatory framework for electricity, district heating and natural
gas. The institutional recommendations were designed to comply, as far as possible, with the relevant EU
directives.

Tariff structure.        The current electricity tariff level and structure were found to be largely in line
with the long-run marginal costs and the financial costs, requiringonly minor modifications. The main
sources o f KEK's financial difficulties are considered to be extremely high technical and nontechnical
losses, and a low bill collection rate. The study recommends a lifeline tariff block o f 100 kWmonth,
corresponding to the amount that would allow for lighting, basic appliances and a very limiteduse o f
electricity for water heating and cooking. Different options are presented for financing the subsidy



                                                      - 8 -

involved in offering the lifeline block at a below-cost price. N e w tariffs are proposed together with a
transition path.

Government Strategy

UNMIKwill prepare and adopt an energy strategy based on the recommendations of the Energy Sector
Study some o f which are described above. A Steering Committee comprising o f representatives o f PISG
(senior representatives o f the Prime Minister, Minister o f Finance and Economy, Minister o f Trade and
Industry, and Minister o f Environment and Spatial Planning), UNMIK, KTA, KEK, academia, NGOs,
and the donors has been formed to develop the energy sector strategy which will be issued as         'IWhite
Paper" o f the government. To initiate discussion o f various complex issues that would be included inthe
strategy paper, a "Green Paper" has been prepared and disseminated for public consultation. A recently
established division o f UNMIK (Energy Office and Central Regulatory Unit) will steer adoption o f this
strategy and prepare an implementation plan. According to the current schedule, the "White Paper" i s
expected to be issued for consultation by June 2003. The initial views on the sector strategy emerging
from these discussions indicate that Kosovo wants to integrate into regional market, adopt an approach o f
regional development instead o f creating capacity within Kosovo to become self sufficient, promotion o f
IPPs, and implement institutional measures such as creation o f regulatory agency, restructuring o f KEK
into separate cost centers and spinningo f f unviable business activities.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed bythe project and strategic choices:
As explained in the preceding section, the sector is affected by several complex issues which can be
addressed only in a phased manner. EAR is fimding institutional development consultants for KEK,
initially for a period o f two years.      In KEK, the establishment o f cost centers, a new organization
structure, clear definition o f job descriptions and skill requirements, employee performance evaluation,
are some o f the measures currently under implementation. The U S A I D funded consultants are helping in
improvement in billing and collection through implementation o f a "customer care package".              The
Government is keen to adopt policies and put inplace the legal, regulatory, and institutional mechanisms
that will help attract private investment inthe energy sector, even if transactions are not imminent in the
current political and economic environment since institutional changes require a long lead time for
successful implementation.        EAR is also planning to find technical assistance to UNMIK for
operationalizing the recently established Central Regulatory Unit, defining the structure o f future
Ministry o f Energy to which the authority for energy sector is expected to be transferred by UNMIK,and
on institutional arrangements for dealing with energy efficiency issues.

The proposed project will help in implementation o f KOSOVO~               strategy o f intensifying regional
integration in the sector. Three main issues which the proposed project seeks to address through the
provision o f technical assistance are: (a) findingthe best solution to meet peak power shortages through a
more economic regional approach instead o f Kosovo investing in building its own expensive p e a l n g
capacity, (b) better utilization o f its existing generation plants by establishing a modern dispatch center,
and (c) preparation o f a framework for private sector investments inthe energy sector.

The Albania and the Kosovo systems are very complementary since Albania is a predominantly hydro
system while Kosovo is a predominantly thermal system. Strengthening exchange o f power between
them can be beneficial for both o f them. From the point of view o f Albania and Kosovo, this
interconnection would result inthe following benefits:


0        Medium and long-term optimization o f hydrologic resources o f Albania;
0       Reduction in the operating costs o f Kosovo power system due to better utilization o f thermal



                                                      - 9 -

power plants;
0        Improvement inreliability o f electricity supply for customers as a result o f increase ingeneration
availability, mitigation o f 'hydro risk' for the Albanian power system and the 'peak capacity risk' for the
Kosovo power system;
0        Reducing the projected necessary investments in installed generating capacity in both countries
since the availability o f Albanian hydropower would reduce Kosovo's need to invest inpeaking capacity
and ancillary services, and the supply of Kosovo thermal electricity to Albania ( inexcess o f hydropower
received) would reduce Albania's need to invest inbase-load capacity;
0        Strengthening the interconnected South East European network through establishment o f a new
400 kV interconnectionline which will increase exchanges and transactions of electricity between other
countries inthe region, strengthening the regional electricity market (REM) operating under UCTE rules
and the EC directives and regulations and consequently regional cooperation and stability.

Kosovo i s obliged to establish a transmission system operator under an M o U that all the countries in the
region signed inNovember 2002, for creation o f a regional electricity market (SEE-REM). Establishment
o f a dispatch center will facilitate creation o f a transmission system operator inKosovo.

C. ProjectDescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost
breakdown):
Three components identified on the basis o f the ESTAP-I Energy Sector Study (December, 2002) and
discussions with the Recipient are: (i)     preparing a detailed feasibility report for a 400 kV transmission
interconnection between Kosovo and Albania talung into account regional perspective, and developing
an approach for commercially sustainable terms o f exchange o f power with the neighboring systems.
The feasibility studywill be conducted incoordination with Albania; (ii)      preparing a bankable project for
establishment o f a dispatch center in Kosovo; and (iii)assistance in developing a policy, legal,
regulatory, and institutional framework for private investment in the energy sector. The Terms of
Reference for Component (iii)     are currently being developed. The TORSwill include, inter alia, a review
from the perspective o f foreign private investors o f issues such as applicable commercial law, business
registration, currency regime and profit repatriation; access to international finance and guarantees;
applicable investment protection treaties; ownership o f property laws relating to securing o f obligations,
concessions, leases and mortgages; energy sector regulation, licensing, energy trading, regulatory
institution; labor laws affecting foreign private investment; dispute resolution systems; taxation
(exporthmport duties, VAT, presumptive and profit taxes, personal income tax etc., municipal taxes,
royalties); and applicable environmental regulation etc. A provision o fUS$ 15,000 equivalent to meet the
project audit costs for a period o f two years, and o f US$ 35,000 equivalent to meet the project
incremental operating costs has been made, from the proceeds o f the Grant. Detailed description o f the
components is provided at Annexure 2.

The estimated cost o f establishing a dispatch center could range from US$ 12 to 17 million, dependingon
the technical alternative selected. In a phased implementation program extending over a period o f three
years, Kosovo may need about US$ 7-8 million for the first phase. Financing has not yet been arranged
for this investment. EAR is also providing some grant fimds for installation o f boundary meters and data
acquisition system which will be integrated into the dispatch center whenever it i s established.
Preliminary cost estimate o f the transmission line i s about USS 56 million o f which US$ 21 million i s for
Kosovo and US$ 35 million for Albanian portion o f the line. This project has been included in the
investmentprogramproposed for fundingunder the Stability Pact. KfW has also indicated its interest in
financing and will like to use the proposed feasibility study for the purpose.



                                                        - 10-

                                                                Indicative                 Bank-      % of
                          Component                               costs        Yo of     Financing   Bank-
                                                                 (US$M)        Total      (US$M)   financing
  RegionalInterconnectionComponent: Detailed feasibility             0.85         56.7       0.85      56.7
  report for 400 kV connection betweenKosovo B and
  Kashar (Albania) and assistanceindeveloping optimal
  terms o f exchange o fpower
  DispatchCenter Project Component: Preparation o f a                0.25         16.7       0.25      16.7
  bankable project for financing a dispatch center
  Private Sector ParticipationPolicy Component: Framewor             0.35        23.3        0.35      23.3
  for private investment inthe energy sector
  Incremental Cost ( including project audit costs)                  0.05          3.3       0.05        3.3
                                           Total Project Costs       1.50        100.0       1.50     100.0
                                                                                                      ~. ...
                                 Total FinancingReauirec

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupported by the project:

Adoption of a more beneficial regional approach for expansion.             Kosovo needs to strengthen its
participation in exchange o f power with the neighboring systems. Energy Sector Study has confirmed
that the "self sufficiency" strategy for meeting its electricity requirements is economically less
advantageous than a "regional" strategy, if the terms o f exchange are mutually beneficial, and
commercially sustainable. To foster development and reinforcement o f a Regional Electricity Market, it
i s necessaryto develop technical ability inthe system, commercial agreements with trading partners, and
institutional capacity in KEK.Kosovo is ajoint signatory, with other countries in the region, to an M o U
for establishment o f a "South East Europe Regional Electricity Market" (SEE-REM) and its integration
into the "European Union Internal Electricity Market". The project will help Kosovo partially comply
with its obligations under the M o U and strengthen its integration into the regional market.

Creation of capacity for power trading with neighboring systems. As explained in preceding sections,
Albania and Kosovo systems are mutually complementary since the former i s predominantly hydro and
the latter i s predominantly thermal system. Instead o f investinginexpensive peaking thermal capacity, it
i s beneficial for Kosovo to exchange its off-peak power with peak power from the hydro system o f
Albania. Such an arrangement will benefit both systems. A 400 kV interconnectionbetween Kosovo and
Albania will also allow higher power exchange, lower regional power losses, and mitigate some network
congestion for transfer o fpower from Northto South o f the region.

Economic dispatch of existing generation plants. Absence o f a data acquisition and control system inthe
utility leads to sub-optimal dispatch of its generating capacity and management of load. The old system
acquired in the '80s was damaged in conflict and restoration o f this system can be expensive and
uneconomic due to technological obsolescence. To optimize utilization o f its capacity and operation o f
its transmission network a modern dispatch center i s almost a sine qua non for a utility. In addition, in
future this control system will need to be connected to the neighboring control centers to improve power
exchange.

Frameworkfor private sector investments in the energy sector. For a power-export led growth strategy,
Kosovo needs to attract private sector investments.          The project will assist in identifying the
requirements o f foreign private investor in large infrastructure projects; a general diagnostic review o f
existing policy, legal, regulatory, and institutional arrangements to identify the gaps; and
recommendations on alternatives that are most appropriate for Kosovo to meet the requirements.


                                                   - 11-

Institutional development of KEK. Institutional capacity o f KEK to operate as a modem, financially
viable utility, in a commercial environment needs to be strengthened. EAR has provided funding for
institutional development o f KEK for a period o f two years. During the supervision o f the project, the
Bank will closely coordinate with the donors and the institutional development consultants.

3. Benefits and target population:
Kosovo will benefit from this assistance in four ways: (i)    detailed feasibility report for the proposed
transmission interconnection will help it to prepare a bankable project and seek financing for this
investment and strengthen further evolution o f regional electricity market, (ii) study o f the terms o f
                                                                                   the
electricity exchange would help Kosovo to prepare for future negotiations and thereby contribute to
reducing the costs to Kosovo o f the power exchange, (iii)  preparation o f bankable project for a dispatch
center will help seek financing for this critical investment required to optimize utilization o f its
generating capacity and management o f its system, and comply with its obligations as a participant in the
regional electricity market, (iv) create an enabling environment for attracting private sector investments.

Strengthening exchange of power with Albania and other neighboring systems, can lead to deferment o f
new expensive generation capacity for meeting peak loads, thereby reducing the fiscal burden and cost o f
power to the consumers.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
The grant would be given to UNMIK. UNMIK and Kosovo Trust Agency will be the implementing
agencies.

There will be a maximum o f three contracts for delivery o f technical assistance.         The contract for
preparation o f framework for private investment will be managed by the Energy Office o f UNMIKwhich
has recently hired qualified professionals experienced insector strategy and regulatory matters. A team
comprising o f the Head o f Energy Office, Senior Economic Advisor o f UNMIK, Head o f Central
Regulatory Unit, and Director o f Private Sector Development o f PISG, has been formed to be the
counterparts to the consultants. The other two contracts will be managed by the energy division o f KTA,
with the assistance o f KEK and in coordination with the Albanian power utility KESH. The decisions
have been taken on the structure o f the counterpart teams and the necessary technical shlls. Qualified
staff will be selected from KEKfor the counterpart teams.

The project would be managed by KTA and the Energy Office of UNMIK,who will be responsible for
selection o f the consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines, supervision o f their work, evaluation o f
results o f the technical assistance, assistance in disbursements, and preparation o f follow-up actions,
KEK will be fully involved in the studies. KEK will provide counterpart teams to work with the
consultants, provide data, coordinate with other utilities including Albanian counterpart KESH, and
review the output o f the consultants. Project financial management will continue to be handled by an
international financial manager and two assistants located in the MFE. The MFE will be responsible for
the financial management and reporting requirements o f the project. The MFE has in place a financial
management system that i s capable o f producing project management reports as required by the Bank.
This system has already been utilized for other Bank fundedprojects. All payments from the IDA Grant
will be made directly by the Bank and as a result no special account will be opened. Based on the
documents prepared by KTA, all payments will be authorized by the MFE and UNMIKand submitted to
the Bank for payment, as per procedure to be agreed with the Bank. The KTA will prepare all the
relevant documents in support o f applications for withdrawal and obtain the required clearances and
coordinate very closely with the MFE. For expenditure incurred to meet the project incremental


                                                    -12-

operating costs, disbursement will be made through Statement o f Expenditure (SOE) procedure o f the
Bank. Counterpart contributions, if any, will be made from Kosovo Consolidated Budget. UNMIK will
hire auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, for auditing the project accounts, including SOEs. The cost of
audit will be paidthrough the Grant proceeds.

The feasibility report for the transmission interconnection is likely to take at least eight to ten months,
though other reports can be finalized sooner. However, the transmission feasibility may require more
time if the field survey o f more than 200 kilometer long route i s affected by adverse weather conditions
inwinter and unforeseen developments insecurity situation. Therefore, a project implementationperiod
o f period o f eighteen months is proposedwith June 2005 as the closing date.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The utility is operating in a survival mode and due to several years of neglect o f maintenance it is now
focussing on rehabilitation o f the system. Due to a recent fire accident at the Kosovo B thermal
generation plant, even the budgetary assistance meant for investment had to be diverted to pay for import
o f electricity and repairing the damage. Investments required for FY 2003, including deferred
investments, are about Euro 100 million. One o f the alternatives for use o f the proposed Grant would be
to finance physical rehabilitation but this option was rejected since the available money (US$ 1.5
million) i s too small relative to the total requirements to have much o f an impact.

Dueto preoccupation ofthe utility and the Government with the day to day operations and dealing with
the crisis situation, exacerbatedby the accidents at its biggest and the best generating plant and a large
coal mine, little work can be done by them on long term strategic issues. Inaddition, other donors are
also providing only limited assistanceto address strategic issues. UNMIK has sought Bank's help to put
the sector on a more sustainable path on the basis o f its experience in the region and world wide.
Therefore, the use o f limitedgrant funds for highpriority technical assistance i s the preferred alternative.


Several areas such as energy policy, taxation on oil and gas (which is leading to distortion infuel choices
for heating), sector restructuring, preparation o f distribution master plan, power plant efficiency, energy
savings indistrict heating, rehabilitation o f coal mines and reclamation o f dump areas o f mines, plan for
fighting coal mine fire, renewable energy potential,          were considered as candidates for technical
assistance. However to get the "biggest impact o f the development dollars" technical assistance i s
focussed on optimization o f resources on a regional basis. As explainedindetail insection B-3, a 400 kV
interconnection between Kosovo and Albania would not only benefit these two systems but also
strengthen the regional electricity market. Therefore the choice o f a technical assistance program that
would help create necessary technical, commercial, and institutional capacity in the utility to foster
evolution o f regional electricity market and help optimize utilization o f resources available to the
constituent systems o f the region.

The recommended option is to provide technical assistance to prepare a detailed feasibility report for a
400 kV interconnection between Kosovo and Albania; develop optimal terms o f power trading with
neighboring systems; establish a dispatch center in Kosovo; and assist in preparing a framework for
attracting private investment.




                                                     - 13-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                       Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                                 Project                       (PSR) Ratings
                                            I                                      (Bank-finance xojects only)
                                                                                  Implementation  Development
 3ank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 Zompleted:                                                                             S               S


 Ither developmentagencies
 'ower generation                            Germany (BMZ, KfW):spare
                                            parts and consultancy for
                                             Kosovo A3, A4 andA5.
                                             Germany (BMZ, GTZ): supply
                                             o f small-scale generating units.
                                             Sweden: equipment and repairs
                                             at Kosovo A and B.
 'ower transmission.                         Denmark: repair o f400 kV,
                                             220 kV and 110kV lines.
                                            Norway: repair o f 400 kV
                                             lines.
                                            United Kingdom: supply o f
                                            vehicles.
                                             Supply o f equipment and
                                            repairs by: Denmark, EC
                                             (EAR), France, Germany,
                                            Japan, Norway, Spain, Sweden,
                                             Swirzerland, United Kingdom,
                                            United States.
 'ower sector institutional support         Germany (BMZ, GTZ, KfW):
                                            capacity building, feasibility
                                             study ofextending life o f
                                            KOSOVO    A3-A5.
                                            United States: training,
                                            establishment o f financial
                                            management systems.
                                            SIDA: Management and
                                            Technical support to KEK.
                                            I
 '/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HL Highly Unsatisk




                                                       - 14-

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe project design:
Experience with Bank-financed or Bank-managed technical assistance in other countries points to a need
for careful and realistic planning o f the technical assistance and close monitoring o f the consultants in
order to ensure that the tasks are completed on schedule. In the course o f implementation o f ESTAP-I,
mechanisms for close coordination with various functional departments o f UNMIK, KTA, the utility,
several donors active inenergy sector inKosovo, andthe civic society have been established. The Bank's
involvement in drafting clear and comprehensive Terms o f Reference, proposing realistic schedules,
interim review o f consultant's work with counterparts, and coordination with donors was found to be
necessary for timely implementation o f the recently completed technical assistance project. The Bank
will therefore be closely involved inimplementation o fthe proposed project.

To avoid delays in implementation, the activities for selection o f consultants will be carried out in
parallel with project processing.

Inorder to ensure that the technical assistance takes full account ofconditions inKosovo, and that the
results and recommendations are acceptable to the Recipient and the beneficiaries, representatives o f
UNMIK,KTA, PISG, and KEKwill be actively involvedinall stages of the project. Close involvement
of KEKwith the consultants will help provide on thejob training to the counterpart staff.

4. Indicationsof recipientcommitmentandownership
UNMIK, KTA, Supervisory Board and the senior management of KEK were fully involved in
finalization and presentation to the civic society and to the donor community, o f the findings and
recommendations o f the consultants engaged for energy sector study. A "Green Paper", which is a
precursor o f the strategy and policy paper has been issued for public consultation. Regarding
Kosovo-Albania interconnection, commitment of the Government o f Albania, UNMIK, and the PISGhas
been stated in various public fora. A recent energy sector study (January 2003) o f Albania has also
recommended Albania-Kosovo transmission interconnection as a prioirty investment. A proposal for
investment in the proposed transmission line has been included in the Stability Pact investment program
for the region.

5. Value addedof Banksupport inthis project:
The Bank has extensive experience in supervising and monitoring studies and technical assistance o n the
same topics in other transition countries, including in the Balkans. The Bank's close involvement in
ESTAP-I, though effort intensive, has created institutional knowledge, has established its donor
coordination role and is looked upon for bringingdomain knowledge and long term view o f the strategic
sector issues in the region as well as inKosovo. This experience would enable the Bank to provide useful
advice during the phases o f finalization o f the terms o f reference, selection o f the consultants, carrying
out o f the studies, and implementation o f the results. The Bank's involvement in the project would also
help to attract well-qualified firms as bidders and help ensure that they prepare sound proposals.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
 -
 --Costbenefit         NPV=USSmillion; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
 I



   Cost effectiveness
   Other (specify)
Formal codbenefit analyses are normally not done for technical assistance activities. An economic
evaluation o f the three proposed studies is not planned to be carried out because o f the difficulty o f


                                                    -15-

measuring and separating out the benefits o f the information provided by the studies from the overall
expected benefits o f the projects that wouldmake use o f the study results.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 940 (see Annex 4)
        KEKwill dependfor severalmore years on subsidiesto partiallymeet its operatingcosts, andon
budgetary support for meeting its investment needs. The recent fire accident due to lightningstrike at the
Kosovo B generation plant (which is the mainstay o f their generation) and the accident at Bardh coal
mine, have affected adversely the recent trend o f improvement in financial performance o f KEK. As
against electricity exports worth over Euro 10 million in the period prior to the fire in July, KEK had to
import electricity worth about Euro 20 million during C Y 2002. KEK restricted imports to the extent o f
the budgetary allocation made for the purpose and imposed supply restrictions to contain its financial
losses. Plans, to be launched in summer, have been made for controlling theft and improvingbilling and
collection.

        SwedPowedKEK are in the process o f preparing a medium term business plan for KEK, and
establishing systems for providing financial information to the senior management o f KEK. Duringthe
project processing, there would be no analysis o f the financial performance o f KEK.However during the
implementationo f the project, financial performance o f KEKwill be monitored.

Fiscal Impact:
N.A.

3. Technical:
No technical issues are anticipated.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
One o f the executing agencies would be the Energy Office o f UNMIK which has the responsibility for
definingand implementingsector policies and long term strategy for its development. The other would
be KTA, which has the responsibility for the management oversight of the public utilities in Kosovo,
including the power company, and will implement the components related to the transmission
interconnection and the dispatch center.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by KTA and the Energy Office o f UNMIK, who will be responsible for
selection o f the consultants in accordancewith Bank guidelines, supervision o f their work, evaluation of
results o f the technical assistance, assistance in disbursements, and preparation o f follow-up actions.
KEKwill befully involvedinthe studies andwill coordinate with itsAlbanian counterpart KESH.

For the private sector policy component, a counterpart team will be led by the Head o f Energy Office
(UNMIK) and include the Senior Economic Advisor (UNMIK),the Head of Central Regulatory Unit
(UNMIK) and the Director, Private Sector Development (PISG) as members. For the other two
components, K T A and KEK have taken decision on the structure and skill requirements for the
counterpart teams for which technically qualified staff will be drawn from KEK. Each o f these teams
will be headedby a senior manager from the relevant department o f KEK and have three more members
experienced in technical, telecommunication, and commercial matters. UNMIK has received a


                                                   -16-

commitment from the Government o f Albania and its power utility KESH to provide data, support for
field survey, and availability o f counterparts for discussion.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There will be a maximum o f three consultancy contracts. The procedure for selection o f the consultants
would be in accordance with the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure. The requests for
proposals would be issued during project preparation, and the proposals received and evaluated before
project approval, so that the contract could be awarded shortly thereafter. The evaluation teams will
include representatives o f the Energy Office, KTA, KEK, and the Central Procurement Entity. KTA uses
Bank's procurement procedures even for investments funded from the Kosovo Consolidated Budget and
has staff trained inthe Bank's procurement procedures.
4.4 Financial management issues:
N o Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has been carried out for KOSOVO,          although a
customized CFAA is planned in FY 2004. The Ministry o f Economy and Finance (MFE) under the
auspices of the UNMIK carries out public finance management in Kosovo.              These activities were
formerly carried out by the CFA, and were mostly transferred to the MFE as of December 31, 2002. To
ensure that expenditures are consistent with the amounts and purposes set out in the Kosovo
Consolidated Budget, and to prevent abuse and fraud, explicit administrative instructions and procedures
have been developed by the MFE, which have to be followed in the commitment and expenditure o f
public money. Policies and procedures have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Financial
management review o f the projects administered by the MFE has been satisfactory and no issues have
been identified.   Experience gained so far has been factored into the design o f the Energy Sector
Technical Assistance Project-I1project financial management arrangements.

A review o fthe Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken inFebruary 2003 to
determine whether the financial management arrangements within the MFE are acceptable to the Bank.
This system is capable o f providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures, including planning, procurement accounting and financial reporting. The project chart o f
accounts has been entered into the Free Balance System maintained by the MFE, and the project meets
the Bank's minimumfinancial management requirements.
5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N o environmental issues are anticipated. The consultant's terms o f reference for the feasibility study o f
the transmission line will include evaluation o f possible environmental impact o f each o f the alternatives
to be studied, and suggest inclusion o f environmental safeguards and public consultation while
implementing the selected alternative.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and Bprojects, timeline and status o f EA:
                   Date o f receipt o f final draft: Not applicable

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable


                                                     - 17-

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The detailed feasibility study for transmission line will include an assessment o f possible social impact in
case any land needs to be acquired for the related sub-station, transmission towers, and the right of way.
These issues will be included in the consideration and evaluation o f options.        The land acquisition
procedures will be reviewed. A rigorous assessment o f social impacts would be required when detailed
route planning and technical design is prepared for implementation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: H o w are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The key stakeholders would be the UNMIK (Energy Office in particular), KTA, and KEK. They all
participated in the project preparation, would work directly with the consultants throughout the project
implementationperiod, and provide most o f the data needed for the project. Assurance has been received
by UNMIK and the PISG from the Government o f Albania for its participation and for support in
conducting the feasibility study for the transmission line.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
While making an assessment o f social impact as part o f feasibility study, the consultants would be
requiredto consult with the local population and with the civic society representatives.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
There are no direct social development outcomes o f feasibility reports and institutional development o f
the power utility.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?




                                                   - 18-

No monitoring mechanisms are proposed inview o fwhat is statedinthe precedingsection.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability o f the technical assistance require that the recommendations and training provided under
the project is effectively used. Detailedfeasibility reports for the transmission and for the dispatch center
will help mobilize financing for these investments, ifpolitical stability and economic recovery continues.

2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                         Risk Rating      I          Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Regional Interconnection Component:                   M           Adequate data is available on power exchange,
Lack o f data on power exchange, and                              through several regional studies, but not on
sector development plans o fneighboring                           sector development plans o f neighboring
systems; implementationnot in                                     systems. Close coordination with Albania and
accordancewith contract provisions                                with the donors hnding investments o fthe
                                                                  neighboring utilities i s beingensured for
                                                                  exchange o frelevant information. Standard
                                                                  Bank contracts will be used for monitoring
                                                                  performance o f the Consultants

Dispatch Center Project Component:                    M           Same as above
Same as above

Private Sector ParticipationPolicy                    M           Standard Bank contracts will be used for
Component: Implementationnot in                                   monitoring performance o f the Consultants
xcordance with contract provisions
From Componentsto Outputs



                                                   - 19-

All Components: Not selecting                      M           Bank's procurement procedure will be used.
competent consultants anddelay inaward                         The implementingagencies have developed
o f contract, non-availability o f                             capacity to solicit, evaluate, and select
                                                               consultants usingBank'sprocurement
                                                               guidelines;
                                                               Counterpart team has been formed for
                                                               component-In, for other two components
                                                               availability of counterpart teams will be
                                                               ensured before mobilization o f the consultants.

Regional Interconnection Component:                M           The Government ofAlbania, UNMIK,and
Lack o f support from the Government o f                       PISG have publicly stated, on several
Albania and its power utility KESHfor                          occasions, their strong support for the
feasibility study of the transmission                          transmission line. A written communication
interconnection                                                from the Government of Albania expressing its
                                                               interest and support for the study has been
                                                               obtained.
Overall Risk Rating                                M



3. PossibleControversialAspects:
None

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
The standard Bank requirements, and submission by UNMIK o f legal opinion on the agreements
executed by the Recipient and the executing agencies, shall apply.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used inthe Legal Agreements.]
    The MFE to have the project records, accounts and financial statements audited each year,
    commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31,2003.
0   The MFE to maintain financial managementarrangements satisfactory to the Bank.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
-
-1.a)
-        The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the
         start o fproject implementation.

I   1. b) Not applicable.

-2.Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestartof
-
-      project implementation.
-3.TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticandofsatisfactory
       quality.
1
__ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunder loan conditions (Section G):




                                                 - 20 -

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
11.Thisfollowing
r          project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I


    2. The            exceptions to Bank policies are recommendedfor approval. The project complies
       with all other applicable Bank policies.




                   6&: :
~~~~



Mohind
Team L                                  Sector ManagerlDirector




                                                  -21  -

                                     Key Performance             Data Collection Strategy
  Hierarchy of Objectives                Indicators                                               Critical Assumptions
Sector-relatedCAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support long-term strategy for Detailedreports on feasibility                                  Willingness o f the key
putting the sector on a        o fpriority investments and      Implementation review          decisionmakers to implement
sustainable path               exchange o fpower with           reports, and periodic progress the priority investmentsand o f
                               neighboring systems accepted reports                           1the neighboring utilities to
                                                                                               negotiate satisfactory
                                                                                               commercial arrangements.



                              I
ProjectDevelopment            IOutcome/                         Project reports:               (from Objectiveto Goal)
Objective:                     Indicators:Impact
Assist in (i)
            developing         Acceptance o f final reports     Implementation review          Effective implementation
capacity for a commercially    and negotiation/ solicitation    reports, and periodic progress review and participation o fthe
sustainable exchange o fpower documents;
with the regional system, and
optimizing utilization of      Improved terms o fpower
existing generation capacity   exchange;
through economic dispatch;
and (ii)developing a           Strong interest by potential
framework for attracting       donorsllenders infinancing
private sector investment in   transmission line and the
the energy sector              dispatch center.




                                                           - 22 -

                                                                                                    Critical Assumptions
                                                                                                 from Outputsto Objective)
Component:
                                                                                                 ivailability o f data on power
Regional Interconnection         acceptable to the client      reports, periodic progress        :xchange, and sector
component: Prepared a                                          reports, final feasibility report levelopment plans o f
detailed feasibility report for a                               for the transmission line and    ieighboring systems;
400 kV transmission                                            report for terms o f power        mplementationinaccordance
interconnectionand a report                                    exchange                          vith contract provisions
describing the best
arrangement o f power
exchange with neighboring
systems.

                                 Satisfactoryproject report and Implementation review            mplementation inaccordance
Dispatch Center Proiect          solicitation documents        reports, periodic progress        vith contract provisions
Component: Prepared a                                          reports, and final set o f
bankableproject report for                                      documents
submissionto the
lendersldonorsand technical
documentation for inviting
proposals for establishment o f
a dispatch center.
Private Sector Participation     Satisfactoryreport and         Implementation review            mplementation inaccordance
Policy Component:                acceptanceo f action plan      reports, periodic progress       vith contract provisions;
Framework report prepared                                                                        ivailability o f counterparts for
for attracting private                                                                           liscussing the issues and
investment inenergy sector,                                                                      )ptions
identifying issues and
recommending options, and an
action plan for addressing
these issues




                                                            -23-

                                    Key Performance       DataCollection Strategy
  Hierarchyof Objectives                Indicators                                      CriticalAssumptions
ProjectComponentsI              nputs: (budgetfor each   'roject reports:            from Componentsto
Sub-components:                 :omponent)                                           htputs)
Regional Interconnection        JSS 0.85 million         mplementationreview reports selection o fcompetent
ComDonent: Prepare a detailed                            .ndprogress reports         :onsultants and prompt award
feasibility report for a 400 kV                                                      )fcontract; Support from
connection between Kosovo B                                                          3overnment o f Albania and its
and Kashar (Albania), and                                                            lower utility, KESH.
assistance indeveloping terms
o f exchange o fpower with the
neighboring systems

Dispatch Center Proiect         IS$ 0.25 million         mplementationreview reports Selection o f competent
ComDonent:                                               .ndprogress reports         :onsultants and prompt award
Develop for submission to                                                            )fcontract
potential lenders and donors a
bankable project with
technical specifications,
financial and economic
evaluation, cost estimates and
financing plan, and
institutional arrangements for
implementationand operation
of a dispatch center



Private Sector Particbation     JSS 0.35 million          mplementationreview reports Selection o fcompetent
Policv ComDonent: Prepare a                               md progress reports         :onsultants and prompt award
policy, legal, regulatory, and                                                       ifcontract, formationofan
institutional framework for                                                           nter-departmental counterpart
private investment inthe                                                              :eamfor the assignment
energy sector




                                                      -24-

                                  Annex 2: DetailedProject Description
                      KOSOVO: EnergySector TechnicalAssistance ProjectII

By Component:

ProjectComponent 1 US$0.85 million
                        -
     Regional InterconnectionComponent

     The main tasks to be carriedout bythe consultants are:

     TASK A: Feasibilitv studv for a transmission interconnection betweenKosovo and Albania

          Carrying out network studies (load flow, short circuit, stability, insulation, etc.), to demonstrate
network conditions after the 1st and the 2nd synchronous zones o f UCTE are re-interconnected, and with
special attention to the following scenarios:
        *         after the subject interconnection Project (Kosovo B - Kashar) is implemented and
        without the Podgorica-Elbasan line;
        *         after the Podgorica-Elbasan line is implemented and without the Kosovo B - Kashar
        line;
        **        after both above lines with Montenegro and Albania are implemented;
                  after all three lines under consideration are implemented (Le. includingthe proposed 400
        kV line with FYROM and further 400 kV connection between Skopje (FYROM) and Nis
        (Serbia))

         All simulations should be done for the time horizon until 2020 and under various dispatch
         scenarios o f the KESH and the KEKsystem, respectively;

         The proposed 400 kV interconnection between Kosovo and Albania should meet present and
future exchange o f power between KEK and KESH as well as anticipated transits in the North-South
corridor. Inthis regard, the consultants will:

(a)      review existing reports related to the Project; and submit the analysis andresults.
(b)      review electric power demand forecast related to the proposed Project, and submit the analysis
and results;
(c)      review and update, if necessary, electric power exchange forecast scenarios Including but not
limited to reports of KfW, EKC, and SECI . between Kosovo and Albania related to the proposed Project,
and submit the analysis and results;
(d)      review basic parameters listed under Section 3, Description of the Project, and submit the
analysis and results.

         Definitionof the characteristics o f the line components (conductor, insulators, optic fibre ground
wire, etc,) and o fthe substations.

         Technical-economic comparison of the following variants: single circuit, a double circuit with
one circuit strung initially, and a double circuit with both strung initially taking into account the future
power transfer needs between the two systems.

         Identification o f network constraints that may hinder Kosovo's integration into the regional
electricity market and optimal power transfer in the interconnected system and propose remedial



                                                     -25-

measuresto said constraints,

e        Routing o f the line, in alternatives if applicable, including topographic survey in Kosovo and
Albania.

e        Determining amounts o f transfer on the proposed Project under existing networks conditions and
by taking into account power generation development plans o fKosovo and Albania. Simulation of export
oriented additional power generation capacities o f possible independent power producers in line with
draft White paper of Kosovo should be also modeled. However, only realistic power exchanges should
serve as a basis for design o f the subject interconnectionline.

e        Measures that are requiredto be implemented to allow transfer to full optimized interconnector
capacity.

e        Propose principles and develop a model for an interconnection agreemenuarrangementsbetween
KEKandKESHandfor the tariff(s) to beadoptedfor the interchange ofpower.

e        Operationand maintenance o f the interconnectionandmutual obligations o f KEKand KESH.

e       Functionallpreliminary design and engineering, o f the line and substations, including
communicationrequirements.

e       Prepare design memorandahrief o f the Project.

e       Detailed quantity and cost estimate with breakdown in local and foreign (EURO) currencies and
interest during construction (maintenance equipment should be included). The cost estimate should be
prepared on the basis o f prevailing prices and latest tendered unit prices for similar works at the time of
preparation o f the estimate. The reference price level, currencies and exchange rates and their reference
period, physical and price contingencies andbasis thereof shouldalso be furnished.

e       Economic analysis o f the Project, including direct and indirect benefits for Kosovo and Albania,
in quantitative and qualitative terms, resulting from bilateral electricity exchange under different
scenarios and revenuesfrom transit fees from thirdparties

e       Development o f cross border trade rules and transparent interconnection capacity allocation
methodbetweenKosovo and Albania and for any third party access.

e       Financial analysis o f the proposed transmission scheme, including proposed Project financing
plan, and financial projections for KEK (source and application o f funds, income and expenditure
statement, and balance sheet).      The financial projections shall be prepared for each year from the
beginningo fproject constructionto five years after its commissioning.

e       Detailedimplementationstrategy for the interconnection.

e       Implementation schedule covering following tasks: procurement strategy, schedule o f
procurement actions up to award o f contracts, period o f preparation o f bidding documents per
packagellot, detailed constructionactivities upto testing and commissioning.

e       Identification o f critical factors that could affect Project implementation and success, and


                                                    -26-

assessment o f the Project's sensitivity to them.
   TASK B: Terms of exchangeo fpower with the neighboringutilities

The maintasks o fthe consultants shall be:

0       review and comment among others on the following:

(a)     the present and near term loads and supply resources in Kosovo, including the operating
characteristics o f the generating units;
(b)     after including applicable transit costs, the most cost effective generating resources available
outside o f Kosovo and on a regional basis,               regarding which there may be physical power
exchanges or other transactions, such as power purchases;
(c)     the power requirements of entities outside Kosovo that may become customers of power from
Kosovo;
(d)     the existing commercial arrangements, including matters related to the creditworthiness o f
contracting parties, as well as reasonably likely         changesto such arrangements;


0       define and describe the transactions, including coordinated dispatch, and contractual
arrangementsthat might be beneficial to Kosovo at present          and inthe near term;


0       define and describe the key contractual principles for the various types o f transactions;


0       define and describe the risks that may be present inthe different types o ftransactions;


0       define heads o f terms o f an illustrative contract for exchange o f power, and provide some
sampleso f similar contracts;


0       discuss methods for evaluating contracts as part o f the overall supply planning strategy;


0       discuss the development within KEK o f a team that would be responsible for identifying the
possible transactions, analyzingthe possibilities, and finalizing the contracts.


0       define the institutional arrangements to be implementedfor carrying out power exchange. These
arrangements include organizational structure, functions, responsibilities, staffing, staff training
including visits to electric utilities with recognized power exchange practices, budget, and reporting
requirements.

ProjectComponent2 US$0.25 million
                       -
DispatchCenter Project Component

The maintasks o fthe consultants shall be:
0       review the existing reports relatedto the Project, and submit the analysis and results.
0       comparison o f the SCADNEMS with power line camer communication network with
SCADNEMS with optic fiber communicationnetwork, and submit analysis and results.
0       detailed definition of SCADAEMS, Communication Network and RTUs to be implemented
under eachstage for the KCS andEKCS (refer to the Power Dispatch SystemPlanReport, Module E).
0       define the procurement packages for the works to be undertaken in accordance with the program
of implementation o fproject (one stage or phased).
0      assist in final selection from among the technical alternatives proposed by ESTAP-I consultants



                                                   -27-

and finalize the technical specifications (with reference to the Power Dispatch System Plan Report o f
ESTAP-I study). The technical specifications will have to take into account the commercial agreements
for the optimal exchange o f power with neighboring country systems and monitoring o f exchange o f
power in relation to the commercial agreements for the purpose o f settlement o f accounts between
trading partners.    The technical specifications will also include the software requirements for such
purpose. The Consultant should assess the requirementsinconsultation with the consultants engaged for
developingthe terms o fpower exchange.
0        detailed quantity and cost estimate with breakdown in local and foreign currencies and interest
duringconstruction for the total project and for each stage. The cost estimate shouldbeprepared on the
basis of prevailingprices and the latest tendered unit prices for similar works at the time o f preparation
of the estimate. The reference price level, currencies and exchange rates and their reference period,
physical and price contingencies and basis thereof should also be furnished.
0        economic analysis o f the project.
0        financial analysis o f the project, including proposed project financing plan, and financial
projections for KEK (source and application o f funds, income and expenditure statement, and balance
sheet).    The financial projections shall be prepared for each year from the beginning o f project
constructionto five years after its commissioning.
0        implementation schedule including procurement strategy (two-stage bidding, one turnkey
package under single responsibility) and schedule o f procurement actions up to award o f contracts,
preparation o f bidding documents, detailed construction activities, testing and commissioning, and
arrangements for these tasks, prepare complete biddingdocuments excluding commercial terms.
e        definition o f the institutional arrangements to be implemented for the proper operation o f the
KCS and EKCS.         These arrangements include organizational structure, functions, responsibilities,
staffing, staff training, budget, and reporting requirements required to ensure reliable and secure
integrated grid operation and for achieving economic and efficiency in the operation o f the national
system.
0        identification o f critical factors that could affect project implementation and success, and
assessment o f the project's sensitivity to them.




                                                   - 28 -

Project Component 3 US$0.35 million
                      -
Private Sector Participation Policy Component

The main task o f the consultants shall be to review the existing policy, legislative, regulatory, and
institutional framework governing private investment in Kosovo with the aim to identify bottlenecks
from the perspective o f foreign private investment in energy sector, suggest alternatives and recommend
an action plan to address the issues identified through the review. The detailed terms of reference are
currently under preparation and will be reviewed with the assistance o f Bank's PSD specialists. The
TORSwill include at a minimum, a review of foreign investment regime in Kosovo ( applicable law,
business registration, currency regime and profit repatriation, energy trading); access to international
finance and guarantees; applicable investment protection treaties; ownership o f property, laws relating to
securing o f obligations, concessions and leases; energy sector regulation, licensing, regulatory institution;
labor laws affecting foreign private investment; dispute resolution systems; taxation ( export/ import
duties, VAT, presumptive and profit taxes, personal income tax etc., municipal taxes, royalties); and
applicable environmental regulation etc.




                                                   - 29 -

                                         Annex 3: Estimated ProjectCosts
                        KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project II

                                                                                                Local               Foreign                 Total
                        ProjectCost By Component                                             US $million          US $million           US $million
Regional InterconnectionComponent: Feasibility study for a                                       0.00                   0.85                   0.85
Kosovo-Albania transmission interconnection and terms o f
exchange o f power
Dispatch Center Project Component: Preparation of a bankable                                     0.00                   0.25                   0.25
project for the dispatch center
Private Sector Participation Policy Component: Framework for                                     0.00                   0.35                   0.35
private investment inenergy sector
Incremental Cost (project audit cost)                                                            0.00                   0.05                   0.05
Total BaselineCost                                                                               0.00                   1S O                   1.50
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                           0.00                   0.00                   0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                             0.00                   0.00                   0.00
                                       Total ProjectCosts'                                       0.00                   1.50                    1S O
                                  Total Financing Required                                       0.00                   1S O                    1.50

                                                                                                Local               Foreign                  Total
                         ProjectCost By Category                                             US $million          US $million           US $million
Goods                                                                                               0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Works                                                                                               0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Services                                                                                            0.00                     1.50                  1S O
Training                                                                                            0.00                    0.00                   0.00
                                                        Total Project Costs1                        0.00                     1S O                  1.50
                                               Total Financing Required                             0.00                     1.50                  1.50

  1
   Identifiabletaxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 1.5 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 0% of
  total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                  - 30 -

   Annex 4Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary,or Cost-EffectivenessAnalysis Summary
              KOSOVO:EnergySector TechnicalAssistance Project I1
NotApplicable




                                    -31 -

                              Annex 5: Financial Summary
                  KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project II

                                               IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                        IYear1 I Year2    I  Year3   I Year4   1  year5   IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing Required
ProjectCosts
  investmentCosts           1.o       0.5         0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0     0.0
 RecurrentCosts             0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0     0.0
Total ProjectCosts          1.o       0.5         0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Financing             1.o       0.5         0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0     0.0
Financing
  IBRDliDA                  1.o       0.5        0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing     1.o       0.5        0.0       0.0         0.0    0.0      0.0


Main assumptions:




                                         - 32 -

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                     KOSOVO: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project II

Procurement
Procurement will comprise o f three consulting contracts and a contract with an auditor. Kosovo Trust
Agency will carry out the procurement in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines.                           The
project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the national
regulations or the co-financing institutions procurement regulations. The estimated cost i s summarized in
Tables A and A1 o f Annex 6. A procurement plan is presented in Table C o f Annex 6. All other
procurement information is presented inTable B o f Annex 6.
Procurementmethods (Table A)

The consulting firms will be selected and contracted in accordance with the Guidelines ( Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants byWorld Bank Borrowers, January 1997, September 1997 and
January 1999, and May 2002).            The Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection Method shall be used in the
selection o f firms.

The invitation o f expression o f interest for consulting firms shall be published in the Development
Business o f the UnitedNations.

The process o f procurement will be conducted by KTA ( procurement unit in Finance department) with
the assistance o f Evaluation Committees ( for shortlist, evaluation o f technical and financial proposals).
The contracts will be reviewed by Office o f Legal Advisor o f UNMIK, and signed by UNMIK (Deputy
Special Representative o f the Secretary General). Furthermore, KTA has staff who handle procurement
for all projects financed by donors or through the Kosovo Consolidated Budget. They follow the World
Bank procedures. In addition, the person who will handle TA project, has attended the Bank's training
program in procurement and i s familiar with guidelines for procurement o f consultants. In the Energy
Division o f KTA also, the Manager and the staff who will handle this project are the same staff who
handled ESTAP-I. Basedon this, the procurement-related riski s considered low.
                            Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                               (US$ million equivalent)


                                                                Procurement Method'




  Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. Ail costs include contingencies.

*(Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f contracted
  staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related



                                                         - 33 -

to (i)
    managingthe project, and (ii)
                                re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                 - 34 -

                                                       Selection Method
   ConsultantServices
  ExpenditureCategory     QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS         CQ      Other     N.B.F.   Total cost'
A. Firms                   1.45      0.00      0.00     0.02        0.00    0.00       0.00       1.47
                          (1.45)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.02)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (1.47)
B. Individuals             0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00        0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00
                          (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)
                   Total I 1.45      0.00      0.00     0.02        0.00    0.00       0.00       1.47
                          (1.45) I   (0.00) I (0.00)  I (0.02)  I  (0.00) I (0.00)  1 (0.00)  I  (1.47)   I
I\Includingcontingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                QBS = Quality-basedSelection
                SFB = Selectionunder a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-CostSelection
                CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants'Qualifications
                Other = Selectionof individualconsultants (per SectionV of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
                Practices,etc.
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figuresin parenthesesare the amounts to be financed bythe Bank Grant.




                                                - 35 -

    Prior review thresholds(Table B)




                                        Contract Value                                              Contracts Subject to
                                           Threshold                    Procurement                    Prior Review
      Expenditure Category              (US$ thousands)                   Method                      (US$ millions)
    1.Works
   I*. Goods
   13. Services                  II           200               II         OCBS                 II          1.45           I1
   14. Miscellaneous             I                              I                               I                          I
    5. Miscellaneous
    6. Miscellaneous

                     Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 1.45 million
                               Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            Low
         Frequency of procurement supervisionmissionsproposed: One every 12months
                                                                               (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                               for post-review/audits)
      Procurement staff assignedto the Project: LeonidVanian, ext. 84796
        Retroactive financing: No


       1      1 2           3           4            5                              6. Estimated dates
                      # o f sliced Estimated Procurement Prequallficatlon (BDRFP)           Bid         Contract  Contract
                        items/      cost, US$ Method              ISL    preparation     1 Invitation
                                                                                       GPNiSPNILocal     signing  Zompletion
                                                              ~


                      sub-packag     thousand               GPNISPNILocal                2 Opening
                           es                                 2 Opening                3 Eval&Recom
                                                            3 Eva1&Recom                   Award


                            1          850        QCBS      04/29/2003    05/30/2003     06/02/2003    08/02/2003 12/31/2004
Regional                                                    0511612003                   06/27/2003
Interconnectio                                              0513012003                   07/25/2003
nComponent
                            1          250        QCBS      05/06/2003    06/06/2003     06/09/2003    08/09/2003 1213112004
Center Project                                              05/23/2003                   07/03/2003
                                                            06/06/2003                   08/01/2003
                            1         350         QCBS      0511112003   06/13/2003     06/16/2003    08/16/2003 1213112004
 Participation                                              05/30/2003                  07/10/2003
    Policy                                                  0611312003                  08/08/2003

                            1          15          LCS      01/25/2004    03/01/2004     03/01/2004    05/15/200L 1213112004
     Audit                                                  0211512004                   03/31/2004
                                                            0310112004                   04/30/2004


    "Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment o fAgency's Capacity to Implement
     Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                          - 36 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                     KOSOVO: Energy Sector TechnicalAssistance Project It

Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
1.1 Country Issues.
No Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has been carried out for Kosovo, and no
CFAA is planned for the near future. The Ministry o f Finance and Economy (MFE) under the auspices
of the UNMIK carries out public finance management in Kosovo. These activities were formerly carried
out by the CFA and were mostly transferred to the MFE as o f December 31, 2002. T o ensure that
expenditures are consistent with the amounts and purposes set out in the Kosovo Consolidated Budget,
and to prevent abuse and fraud, explicit administrative instructions and procedures have been developed
by the MFE, which have to be followed inthe commitment and expenditure o f public money. Policies
and procedures have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Financial management review o f
the projects administered by the MFE has been satisfactory and no issues have been identified.
Experience gained so far has been factored into the design o f the Energy Sector Technical Assistance
Project-II project financial management arrangements.

1.2      Strengths and Weaknesses.
Significant strengths that provide a basis for reliance on the project financial management system
include: (a) the experience o f implementing Bank financed Grants that the accounting team in the MFE
has; and (b) the unqualified audit reports and the positive management letters issued by the auditors on
the projects covered by the MFE. No significant weaknesses have been noted.

1.3      Implementing Entity.
The project would be managed by KTA and the Energy Office o f UNMIK,who will be responsible for
selection o f the consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines, supervision o f their work, evaluation of
results o f the technical assistance, assistance in disbursements, and preparation o f follow-up actions.
KEK will be fully involved in the studies and will coordinate with its Albanian counterpart KESH.
Project financial management will continue to be handled by an intemational financial manager and two
assistants located in the MFE. The MFE will be responsible for the financial management and reporting
requirements o f the project. The MFE has in place a financial management system that is capable o f
producing project management reports as requiredby the Bank. This system has already been utilized for
other Bank fundedprojects.

1.4      Funds Flow.
All payments from the IDA Grant will be made directly by the Bank and as a result no special account
will be opened. Basedon the documents prepared by KTA, all payments will be authorized by the MFE
and UNMIK and submitted to the Bank, as per procedures to be agreed with the Bank. KTA will prepare
all the relevant documents in support o f applications for withdrawal and obtain the required clearances,
and coordinate very closely with the MFE. Counterpart contributions, if any, will be made by the KCB.
For incremental operating expenditure, SOE procedure will be used and reimbursement claimed from the
proceeds o f the grant.

1.5      Staffing.
The accountant and Disbursement officers are familiar with financial and accounting systems as well as
with Bank requirements.       The experienced has been gained through implementation several Bank
financed Grants The accountant would be responsible for all aspects of the financial management and
accounting, including maintaining books o f accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions. She will also be



                                                   - 37 -

incharge ofthepreparingthe FMRs.

1.6      Accounting Policies and Procedures.
The MFE will take all necessary steps to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank policies
(OP/BP 10.02). The MFEprocedures and policies have beenreviewedbythe Bank and found acceptable

1.7      InternalAudit.
Not applicable.




Audit Report                                      Due Date
Project                                            June 30,2004
SOE                                                June 30,2004



1.9     Reporting and Monitoring.
The MFE will maintain accounts o f the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting o f the funds
provided. The MFE has been preparing PMRs for several on-going Bank financed projects. These
reports have been timely and o f good quality. The mission agreed with the MFE to maintain the same
reporting formats (for consistency) for this project, although the name would change to FMR. The MFE
will be responsible for preparingFMRsona quarterly basis. The FMRswill include:


0        Project Sources and Uses o f Funds
0        Uses of Fundsby Project Activity
0        Special Account StatementPlus Local Bank Account Statement
0        Project ProgressReporting
0        Procurement Reporting

1.10     Information Systems.
The MFE has in place a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The MFE consolidate
payments and receipts o f all line ministries and municipalities, through its accounting system. The chart
o f accounts i s based on the GFMIS. As the participants under the project fall under the umbrella of the
KCB, all project relatedpayments would be made via the STA, and the accounts would be maintained as
part o f the MEF's accounting system. The MFE is already producing PMRs for several Bank financed
Grants.

1.11     DisbursementArrangements.
Disbursements from the Grant will consist of direct payments and against Statement o f Expenditure for
the incremental operating costs and as a result no SA will be opened. The proceeds of the Grant will be
allocated in accordancewith Table C, Annex 6. The option to move to a FMRbased disbursementswill
not be considered.


                                                   - 38 -

1.12     Action Plan
The project chart o f accounts will be entered into the Free Balance System.

1.13 SupervisionPlan
The reports o f the progress o f the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based F M S and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Audit reports o f the project will be reviewed and issues
identified and followed up. The field based FMS would monitor the agreed action plan to ensure
appropriate actions have been implementedby the MFE.
2. Audit Arrangements
Kosovo Consolidated Budget and accounts o f KTA are audited by external auditors. UNMIK will hire
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, for auditing the project accounts, including SOEs. The cost o f audit
will be paidthrough the Grant proceeds.
3. DisbursementArrangements
Basedon the documents prepared by KTA, all payments will be authorized by the MFE and UNMIK and
submitted to the Bank. KTA will prepare all the relevant documents in support o f applications for
withdrawal and obtain the required clearances and coordinate very closely with the MEF. Counterpart
contributions, if any, will be made by the KCB. Disbursement for incremental operating costs will be
through Statement o f Expenses. No Special Account is envisaged.
 Allocation of grant proceeds(TableC)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds



 Services (consulting)                                  1.47                            100
lhcremental Oueratine Costs                             0.03                             100
I                                             II        0.00          II                                    II
ITotal Project Costs with Bank Financing1               1.50

ITotal                                        I         1.50          II                                    II
The financing percentage indicated inthe Table above will be applicable only for foreign consultants.
For local consultants, ifany, standard disbursement percentage for Kosovo shall be applicable.

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

All incrementaloperating costs, as approved by the Association on the basis of budgetsacceptableto the
Association

 Special account:




                                                    - 39 -

                              Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                  KOSOVO: EnergySector Technical Assistance Project II


 Project Schedule                                          Planned                   Actual
 Time taken to prepare the project (months)             6
IFirstBank mission (identification)             I       09/08/2002            I     09/08/2002   I
~
 Appraisal mission departure                            04/28/2003                  05/05/2003
 Negotiations                                           05/07/2003                  05108l2003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                          0713112003
I                                               I                                                 I


Prepared by:



 Preparation assistance:


 Bank staff who worked on the project included:
          Name                                         Speciality
 Mohinder Gulati                         Task Team Leader
 Ifiikhar Khalil                         LeadEnergy Specialist
 Richard E. Hamilton                     Consultants, Economist
 Ramon Lopez Rivera                      Consultant, Power Engineer
 Leonid Vanian                           Procurement Specialist
 Hiran Herat                             Senior Financial Management Specialist
 Mark Walker                             Lead Counsel
 Joseph Formoso                          Senior Disbursement Officer
 Yolanda Gedse                           Program Assistant
 Luiz Maurer                             Senior Energy Specialist, Peer Reviewer




                                                 -40-

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                  KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project II


A. Project implementation Pian
Project ImplementationPlan datedApril 28,2003

6. BankStaff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment Report, dated March 23,2003

C. Other

(i)      EnergySector Technical Assistance Project-I studyreport, December 2002.
 (ii)    Additional studies (a) Demand and Supply analyses for the generation planandpotential
interconnectionnetwork implications inKosovo until 2020 ( November 2002) and (ii)      Transmission
network strategy (November 2002).
(iii)    Background and context for preparation of a long-term energy strategy and policy o f Kosovo
("Green Paper") November2002
(iv)     UNMIKsRegulationnumbers2002112 datedJune 13,2002 onestablishment ofKosovo Trust
Agency, and 2002113 dated June 13,2002 on     establishment o f a special Chamber o f the Supreme
Court of Kosovo on Kosovo Trust Agency relatedmatters;

'Including electronicfiles




                                                -41 -

                                      Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                              KOSOVO: Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project II
                                              _.
                                                       26-Mar-2003
                                                                                                            Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                     and actual
                                                            OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                              IBRD        IDA        SF            Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO72405      2002 SOC PROT (KOSOVOTF)                      0.00      0.00       4.20            0.00     3.77        2.07      0.00
PO72814      2001 COMM DEV FUN0 (KOSOVOTF)                 0.00      0.00       5.00            0.00     1.66       -3.34      0.00
PO71265      2001 PSD TA (KOSOVO TF)                       0.00      0.00       3.00            0.00     0.76        0.66      0.00
PO70365      2001 PILOT WS (KOSOVOTF)                      0.00      0.00       4.60            0.00     3.54       -1.06      0.00
PO70295      2001 URG ROAD (KOSOVO TF)                     0.00      0.00       5.00            0.00     1.15        1.15      0.00
PO69629      2001 SME CREDIT (KOSOVOTF)                    0.00      0.00       5.00            0.00     0.35        5.44      0.00
PO69325      2000 EMG FARM RECONSTRUCTION(KOSOVOTF)        0.00      0.00      10.00            0.00     0.41       -3.69      0.41
PO69516      2000 EDUC/HEALTH(KOSOVOTF)                    0.00      0.00       4.44            0.00     0.98       -0.19      0.00

                                                Total:    0.00       0.00      41.24            0 00   12 63         105       0.41




                                                          -42-

                                           KOSOVO
                                      STATEMENT OFIFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                         J u ~30 2002
                                                 -
                                       InMillionsU S Dollars

                                                        Committed                      Disbursed
                                                      IFC                            IFC
FYApproval     Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic


                      Total Portfolio:          0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                   ADorovak Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company                            Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic


               Total Pending Commitment:           0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00




                                              -43-

                                                  Annex 10: Countryat a Glance
                          KOSOVO: EnergySector TechnicalAssistance ProjectII
                                                 Kosovo at a glance                                                                                     4/4/03

                                                                                      Europe 8    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                        Kosovo       Central    middle-
                                                                             SAM          Asia    Income        1 Development diamond'
ZOO1
Population, mid-year (millions)                                                   2        475      2,164                       Life expectancy
GNP per capita                                                               1,217       1,960      1,240       i
GNP                                                                             2.4        930      2,677

Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%J                                                                             0.1        1.o
Labor force (%)                                                                            0.6        1.2       ' G N i                               Gross
                                                                                                                ,per      I--                        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                                                             enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty line) I/                          50                             I cap'ta
Urban population (% of totalpooulationJ                                          37         63         46       I
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                 74         69         69                              -
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                         35         20         33
Chiid malnutrition [% of children under 5)                                                             11               Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source 1% ofpopulation)                              54         90         80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 1.51)                                              7          3         15            -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)                            97        102        107                   Kosovo
    Male                                                                         98        103        107                   Lower-middle-Incomeorouu
    Female                                                                       96        101        107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                          2000       2001
                                                                                                                   Economlc ratios.
GDP (Euro  mlllionr)                                                                     1,414      1.747
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                                                               68         54
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                                                           10         13                            Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP
Gross national savingsiGDP
Current account balance/GDP                                                               5.87       9.10
Interest payments/GDP
Total debt/GDP                                                                             0.0
Total debt service/exports 2/
Present value of debt/GDP
Present vaiue of debt/exports
                                                                                                                                 indebtedness
                                                                             2000         zoo1    2001-05
(average annual growth)                                                                                                -
GDP                                                                                       23.6        6.5                    Kosovo
GDP per capita                                                                            18.4                   I!          Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                                                             56.1


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                    1988                     1996         2000       zoo1
(% ofGDP)
Agriculture                                          20.4                     28.8
Industry                                             47.4                     33.8
   Manufacturing
Services                                             32.2                     37.4

Private consumption                                                                      113.0      102.8
General government COnSUmptiOn                                                            51.5       48.7
Imports of goods and services                                                             91.5       88.7


                                                  1981-91                 1991-01         2000       2001
(average annual growth)
Agriculture
industry
   Manufacturing
Services
Private consumption
General government COnSUmptiOn
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and Services 31

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.
1/ Share of population below food poverty line of US$ 0.813/day is 11.9%.




                                                                      - 4 4 -



