Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H048 KOS 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Energy Sector Technical Assistance II) 
 
between 
 
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 22, 2003 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H048 KOS 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 2003, between UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS, the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to 
assist in financing the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant (as hereinafter defined) to the Recipient for the benefit of Kosovo upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
(a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) Article 
II; 
 
(iii) 
Sections 3.01 and 3.04 (c); 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.05 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) 
Article X;  
Page  3
-
2
-
(x) 
Article XI; and  
 
(xi) Article 
XII. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Credit”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;  
 
(iii) 
the term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account;  
 
(v) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement; 
 
(vi) 
paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“11. “External debt” means any debt which is or may become payable 
other than in the currency of Kosovo.”; 
 
(vii) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective 
currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant have been paid or are payable; provided, however, that 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures in the currency of Kosovo shall 
be made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably select.” 
 
(viii) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Commitment Charge is Payable 
 
(a)   
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
Page  4
-
3
-
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are modified to 
read “commitment charge”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(ix) 
Section 4.06 (b) shall be modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b)  
The principal of the Grant shall be paid without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by the Recipient or in Kosovo.” 
 
(x) 
Section 5.08 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“It is the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied by the Recipient 
or in Kosovo on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof.  To that end, if the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, increase or decrease the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the Development Grant Agreement 
as required to be consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
(xi) 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in   
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in           Section 
6.02 (c) (i) is modified to read: “any development grant agreement, 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
(c) 
Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(xii) 
Section 8.01 of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a)  
The commitment charges on the Grant shall be paid without 
deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by the Recipient or in 
Kosovo. 
 
(b)  
The Development Grant Agreement, and any other agreement to 
which these General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes 
levied by the Recipient or in Kosovo on or in connection with the 
execution, delivery or registration thereof.” 
 
(xiii) 
Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
 
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Association to visit any part of Kosovo for 
purposes related to the Grant.” 
 
(xiv) 
Section 9.02 of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows: 
 
“The Recipient shall furnish to the Association all such information as 
the Association shall reasonably request with respect to financial and 
economic conditions in Kosovo including its balance of payments and its 
external debt as well as that of its political or administrative subdivisions 
and any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or 
benefit of Kosovo or any such subdivision, and any institution 
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization 
fund, or similar functions, for Kosovo.” 
 
(xv) 
Section 12.05 of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.  Termination of Development Grant Agreement 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.02. 
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European Union 
that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European 
Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“KEK” means Korporata Energjetike e Kosovës, The Power Corporation of 
Kosovo, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(d) 
“KESH” means Korporata Elektroenergjetike e Shqipëris, The Power Company 
of Albania, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(e) 
“KTA” means the Kosovo Trust Agency, established on June 13, 2002 pursuant 
to Regulation No. 2002/13 promulgated by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of 
the United Nations pursuant to the authority given to him under United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 1244 (1999) of June 10, 1999 (UNSCR 1244 (1999)), or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
 
(f) 
 “MFE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economy within the PISG (as 
hereinafter defined), or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(g) 
“PISG” means the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Regulation No. 2001/9 of May 15, 2001 on a Constitutional 
Framework for Provisional Self-Government in Kosovo, as amended, promulgated by the Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations pursuant to the authority given to 
him under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) of June 10, 1999      (UNSCR 
1244 (1999)). 
 
(h) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the Association, 
for the carrying out of the Project, adopted by the Recipient and dated April 28, 2003, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount in various 
currencies 
equivalent 
to 
one 
million 
one 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights               
(SDR 1,100,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
Section 2.03.  
(a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Page  7
-
6
-
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent     
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of   
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by the Recipient; and (iii) in 
Euros or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04. 
Commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15th and 
December 15th in each year.  
 
Section 2.05. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.06. 
The Recipient shall delegate to a duly authorized representative of the 
MFE, in writing, on terms and conditions and in a form satisfactory to the Association (including, 
without limitation, that such delegation shall not include the power to sub-delegate), the authority 
to take any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of    Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, including, without limiting the generality of 
the foregoing, the authority to prepare, on the Reci
pient’s behalf, applications for withdrawal of 
the Grant from the Grant Account, it being understood and the parties hereby agreeing that all 
such applications for withdrawal shall require the co-signatures of one duly authorized 
representative of the Recipient and one duly authorized representative of the MFE, and that duly 
signed applications of withdrawal shall be submitted to the Association by the Recipient. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, environmental, 
financial, technical and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall:  
 
(i) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
ensure that the MFE performs its obligations in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not, 
and the Recipient shall ensure that KTA and KEK shall not, amend, suspend, abrogate, terminate 
or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan without the prior written consent of 
the Association.
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 
4.01. 
(a) The Recipient shall ensure that MFE maintains a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepares financial statements in a 
format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure that MFE has the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, 
commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2003, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts, and the report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish, and shall ensure that MFE furnishes, to the Association such 
other information concerning such records, accounts and financial 
statements and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall ensure that MFE: 
 
(i) 
maintains or causes to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) 
of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retains until at least one (1) year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enables the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iv) 
ensures that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) The Recipient shall ensure that MFE prepares financial monitoring 
reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and the Recipient shall furnish such 
reports to the Association, which reports: 
 
(i) 
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided 
under the Grant and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through 
the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01.  
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations for Kosovo, Head of UNMIK Pillar IV, is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo 
One Mother Theresa Street 
Pristina, Kosovo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(212) 963-8442-5642, or 
(381-38) 504 604-5642 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Pristina, 
Kosovo, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION  
 MISSION IN KOSOVO 
 
By /s/ Nikolaus Lambsdorff 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ 
1,070,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
and audit services 
 
and 95% of local expenditures 
 
(2) 
Incremental 
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
operating costs 
      __30,000
and 95% of local expenditures 
 
TOTAL 
  1,100,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for services supplied from 
any territory other than that of Kosovo;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures other than foreign 
expenditures; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenditures, as approved by the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to 
the Association, incurred by the Recipient’s Energy Office, KTA or KEK, with respect to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, publication of 
advertisements and procurement notices, vehicle operation, travel costs, including air fare, local 
transport, and hotel and per diem charges, translation and production of documents, and 
workshop expenses, but excluding salaries or honoraria of officials and employees of the 
Recipient and PISG, including, without limitation, salaries or honoraria of officials and 
employees of KTA and KEK. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for all incremental operating costs, as 
approved by the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to the Association. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist in the development of: (i) capacity for a 
commercially sustainable exchange of power with the regional system, as well as optimizing 
utilization of existing generation capacity through economic dispatch; and (ii) a framework for 
attracting private investment in the energy sector in Kosovo. 
 
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Regional Interconnection
Carrying out a feasibility study for a transmission interconnection between Kosovo and 
Albania, as well as assistance in the development of terms for the exchange of power with 
neighboring systems, which study and assistance would include: 
 
1. 
Feasibility study for a transmission interconnection between Kosovo and Albania
Preparation and submission of a detailed feasibility report for a 400 kV transmission 
interconnection between Kosovo and Albania taking into account regional perspective. The scope 
of work will include, 
inter alia
,
definition of the characteristics of the line components; routing of 
the line, including topographic surveys in Kosovo and Albania; measures that are required to be 
implemented to allow transfer to full optimized inter-connector capacity; economic and financial 
analyses of the proposed transmission scheme; development of a model for an interconnection 
agreement/arrangements between KEK and KESH; operation and management of the 
interconnection and mutual obligations of KEK and KESH; assessment of environmental and 
social impacts, and recommendations on necessary mitigation measures; and implementation 
strategy.  The feasibility study will be conducted in coordination with Albania. 
 
2. 
Terms of exchange of power with neighboring systems
Preparation and submission of a report on an appropriate methodology and approach for 
establishing commercially sustainable terms of exchange of power with the neighboring systems.  
The scope of work will include, 
inter alia
,
a
review of Kosovo’s existing commercial 
arrangements for exchange of power; definition and description of the transactions, including 
dispatch, and commercial arrangements that might be beneficial to Kosovo at present and in the 
near term; definition and description of the key contractual principles and risks in various types of 
transactions; methods for evaluating contracts as part of overall planning strategy; and 
institutional arrangements to be implemented for carrying out power exchange.   
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Part B:
Dispatch Center Project
Assistance in developing a bankable project for submission to the potential lenders and 
donors, that would include the technical specifications, financial and economic evaluations, cost 
estimates and a financing plan, as well as institutional arrangements, for the implementation and 
operation of a dispatch center in Kosovo.  The scope of work will include, 
inter alia
,
comparison 
of the system control and data acquisition (SCADA) with power line carrier communication 
network with SCADA and energy management system (EMS) optic fiber communication 
network; detailed definition of SCADA/EMS communication network and remote terminal units 
to be implemented under each stage of the project; definition of procurement packages in 
accordance with the program of implementation; detailed quantity and cost estimates; economic 
and financial analyses of the project; and definition of institutional arrangements to be 
implemented for the proper operation of the dispatch center. 
 
Part C:
Private Sector Participation Policy
Preparation and submission of a report reviewing and making recommendations for 
improving the existing policy, legislative, regulatory, and institutional framework for private 
sector participation in the energy sector in Kosovo.  The scope of work will include a review of 
all relevant policies, laws, and regulations of general application that may impact private sector 
participation in the energy sector, as well as sector-specific laws, regulations and institutional 
arrangements, and the development of specific recommendations that would assist Kosovo to 
improve its legal, regulatory and institutional framework by minimizing risk for private investors 
and creating an enabling environment for increased private sector participation in the energy 
sector.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 
2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the 
following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 
through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing of the Project, estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
Responsibility for the implementation of the Project, as well as day-to-day Project 
management and supervision, shall be vested with the Recipient and KTA. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that KTA, KEK and MFE, respectively, are provided with 
adequate resources, staff and facilities for the performance and discharge of their respective 
responsibilities and obligations under the Project. 
 
3. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that the relevant 
consultant contracts shall be managed and supervised by the Energy Division of KTA, with 
adequate support and assistance from KEK, which support and assistance shall include the 
provision of necessary data, coordination with other agencies and neighboring country utilities, 
and the review and submission of analyses of outputs provided by the consultants. 
 
4. 
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that the relevant 
consultant contract shall be managed and supervised by the Recipient’s Energy Office, with the 
support and assistance of a suitably qualified team of individuals, satisfactory to the Association, 
to act as counterparts to the consultants. 
 
5. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about February 28, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
M
:\BACKUP\Kosovo\Conformed\H048-KOS.doc 
8/21/2003 1:35 PM 
 
M:\BACKUP\Kosovo\Conformed\H048-KOS.doc 
6/20/2003 9:04 AM
 
