CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 219 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 219 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million six hundred thousand dollars
($4,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 1   and   December 1    commencing    December 1, 1980    and   ending
June 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
June 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, technical
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the budgeted expenditures, estimated to be made for the Project during each
quarter, shall be available not later than the fifteenth day of such quarter.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall within the Office of Educational
Development of its Ministry of Education establish and maintain a Project
Implementation Unit employing a project director, a project architect-engineer, a
technical educator, a procurement officer and an accountant, to be selected in
consultation with the Association and to be charged with the carrying out of the
Project, all in accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿5
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association: (i) within six months after the date of this Agreement
evidence satisfactory to the Association that the Borrower has acquired free of
all encumbrances the ownership of the land on which the training centers included
in the Project are to be built, and (ii) within twelve months after the date of
this Agreement certified copies in the English language of the permits required
for the construction of said centers.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
within six months after the date of this Agreement have retained the services of
qualified and experienced architects and consulting engineers acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the
purpose of designing the training centers, and supervising the execution of the
civil works, included in the Project.
(d)   In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The special one-,  ar teacher-training courses included in
Part B of the Project shall be given in accordance with a timetable to be agreed
*         upon between the Borrower and the Association. Curricula, acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, for such courses shall be established by the
Borrower's Ministries of Education and Manpower with the assistance of the leader
of the team of experts referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in programming and supervising the
teacher-training courses and the initial operation of the technical training centers
included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts in technical education
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association and in accordance with a timetable to be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall


﻿6
(except as otherwise provided in such Schedule) be subject to the prior concurrence
of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and construction schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, through the local representatives of its Ministry of Education, make
or cause to be made available not later than the fifteenth day of each quarter


﻿7
all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the effective utilization,
staffing, equipment, operation and maintenance of the technical training centers
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture and equipment of
said centers to be adequately maintained and shall promptly as needed cause all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a National
Advisory Committee, including qualified and experienced representatives of its
Ministries of Education and Manpower, of the National Planning Board and of
industry, and senior technical secondary school administrators, for the purpose of
advising the Director of Technical and Vocational Education in its Ministry of
Education on matters of general policy concerning the technical training centers
included in the Project and their feeder schools.
(b)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain for each such training center
an Advisory Committee, consisting of representatives of local industry, feeder school
administrators and officers of such centers, for the purpose of assisting the directors
of the centers in ensuring that the curricula of the centers meet current employment
requirements of industry.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the senior technical secondary schools served
or to be served by said technical training centers: (i) to coordinate their curricula
with those of the centers, and (ii) to collect employment data about their graduates
for at least three years after their graduation.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to operate the technical training
centers included in the Project on a double-shift basis during five days per week.
(b)   The Borrower shall employ teachers and work-shop instructors in such
centers at salaries which, together with other emoluments received as a direct result
of their employment in the centers, shall be at such levels as shall be adequate
to allow such teachers and instructors to devote their professional attention
exclusively to the centers.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the senior technical -econdary schools
served by the technical training centers included in the Project: (i) to submit
candidates for admission to such schools to special aptitude tests adequate to ensure
that only students with an appropriate interest and ability to receive technical
education would be admitted to such schools, and (ii) to submit their pupils to
a final examination designed, inter alia, to test the pupils on their ability to properly
perform the practical tasks for which they were trained.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The BuTower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service char-es on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Crecit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effecti 'e Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
the Project Implementation Unit has been established and a project
director, a project architect-engineer, and a technical educator have been
appointed, all in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of and Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date January 29, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿10
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿*                               11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Abdul Moeis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s   J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in            % of Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.    Civil works                     850,000            40% of total expendi-
tures (representing
the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
II.   Equipment                     2,380,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
III.  Furniture                        80,000            100% of foreign
expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures
ex-factory
IV.   Professional services           220,000            100% of foreign
for civil works                                    expenditures
V.    Technical assistance            320,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
VI.   Unallocated                     750,000
TOTAL         4,600,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produ-ed in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;


﻿13
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
sulbject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
local expenditures under Category III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice


﻿14
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.     The designing, constructing, furnishing and equipping of five new
technical training centers serving existing senior technical secondary
schools, one in each of the cities of Bandung, Djakarta, Medan,
Surabaja and Makassar, as further specified in the Annex to this
Schedule.
Part B.     Special one-year training courses for selected senior technical secondary
school teachers and work-shop instructors required to teach in the new
technical training centers.
Part C.     Technical assistance by a team of five experts in technical education
to assist the Borrower in programming and supervising the
teacher-training courses and in the initial operation of the new technical
training centers.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿16
ANNEX
List of Technical Training Centers Included in the Project
Approximate          Approximate
Gross Area            Student      Approximate
Location           (sq. meters)           Places       Enrollment
Bandung                6,800                840            3,360
Djakarta               7,150                860            3,600
Medan                  4,830                540            2,160
Surabaja               6,150                740            2,880
Makassar               2,990                440            1,800
TOTAL:      27,920               3,420          13,800


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following supplementary procedures shall apply to the procurement of
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors will be pre-qualified.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for
its concurrence the following:
(a)   list of all contracts for civil works required for carrying out the Project,
indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for bids and awards of such contracts. The contracts will
be grouped in such a way as to encourage international competitive
bidding;
(b)   description of the proposed international advertising coverage to ensure
international competitive bidding, draft bid notices, pre-qualification
questionnaires and description of pre-qualification procedures;
(c)   reports and recommendations on the pre-qualification data submitted
and the proposed selected tender list; and
(d)   draft bidding documents and draft contracts. The invitations to bid
for the technical training centers included in the Project will, inter
alia, specify that the bidder will submit offers in respect of each center
or of all of them, together with related facilities, or any combination
thereof, the bids therefor to be opened simultaneously and the
Borrower to have the option of awarding to one contractor one
contract in respect of all the centers and facilities, or separate contracts
in respect of the various centers and facilities to different contractors.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower will, before
the award of a contract, send to the Association, for its concurrence, a copy of
the analysis of the bids and recommendations thereon and a brief statement
justifying the Borrower's decision on the award.


﻿18
4.    Promptly after a contract has been awarded and before submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of
such contract, a certified copy of the contract will be sent to the Association.
5.    The Borrower will request the Association's prior concurrence for any
proposed change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of the
contract sum or more than $25,000 equivalent, whichever is less, together with
an explanation of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association, for
its concurrence, the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of
each item. The specifications will also include mandatory translation
of instructions for operation and maintenance of equipment into
Bahasa Indonesia. Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for
identification with: (i) the Project centers; and (ii) the spaces for which
the items are required. The items to be purchased will be grouped
so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with
sound technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items will be for amounts of $40,000 equivalent
or more. Such contracts in amounts of less than $5,000 equivalent
will not be submitted to the Association for concurrence or financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit. Amendments to such lists will also
be submitted to the Association for its concurrence; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contract and
descriptions of the methods to be used for obtaining bids on an
international basis.
2.    Procurement will be limited to those items of equipment and furniture
specified in the approved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph B I (a) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as in
the lists.
3.    With respect to all contracts for furniture and equipment, for the
purpose of evaluating bids, bid prices shall be determined in accordance with the
following rules:


﻿19
(a)   The term   Local Bid means a bid submitted by a manufacturer,
established in the territories of the Borrower, for such goods
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower; any other bid shall
be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. landed price of such goods net of any taxes on
their importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if
imported into the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (c) (i) above, whichever shall be lower; and
(iii)      inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
4.    If a contract is awarded to a bidder other than the lowest bidder
(within the meaning of the foregoing paragraph B 3), or involves a difference in
price of 10% or more than the original estimate as shown pursuant to paragraph
B 1 (a) above, the Borrower will, after the bids have been evaluated and before
making the award, send to the Association for its concurrence a summary and
analysis thereof and a brief justification of the Borrower's decision on the award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been
awarded and before submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds in respect of such contract, the following will be sent to
the Association:


﻿20
(a)   a certificate signed by the Project Director, or his deputy that the
goods tendered for are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list concurred with by the Association;
(b)   a summary of the tenders received;
(c)   a brief analysis of the tenders and justification for the Borrower's
decision in making the award; and
(d)   a certified copy of the contract.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation Unit
The Project Implementation Unit, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement, will operate under the direction of a Project
Director. The Unit will be directly responsible to the Chairman of the Office of
Educational Development in the Borrower's Ministry of Education for the proper
carrying out and supervision of the Project, and will operate in close cooperation
with the appropriate departments and agencies of the Borrower. Its staff will
include, besides the Project Director, a project architect-engineer, a technical
educator, an accountant, and a procurement officer. Such staff will be assigned
on a full-time basis to the Unit, except as may be otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Association. The Project Unit will be provided with adequate
supporting staff, facilities, equipment and logistical support.
The Project Unit will be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(a)   arrangements for th- selection of architects and consulting engineers,
approval of their terms of reference and administration of their
agreements;
(b)   preparation of a comprehensive implementation chart based on the
Critical Path Method (CPM) or other similar method, for setting down
the planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on
which the carrying out of all aspects of the Project will be based.
The chart will be prepared as the first step in implementing the Project,
and the Association will be given reasonable opportunity to comment
on the planned timetable before it is put into effect;
(c)   preparation of architects' briefs, relating educational specifications to
realistic costing and functional design, and technical advice to the
architects and consulting engineers;
(d)   arrangements for review and approval by the appropriate authorities
of the Borrower of plans, reports, specifications and other material
submitted by the architects and consulting engineers;
(e)   review of the architectural drawings to ensure that space provisions
and educational specifications are treated correctly so as to minimize
changes during construction and after acceptance and approval of
tenders;


﻿22
(f)   arrangements for the awarding of the contracts relating to the Project;
(g)   preparation, with the assistance of technical education specialists, of
lists of all instructional equipment and furniture required by the
technical training centers included in the Project, together with
specifications and the estimated unit and total price of each item;
(h)   ensuring that all instructional equipment and furniture meet prescribed
specifications;
(i)   preparation and administration, in consultation with the appropriate
authorities of the Borrower, of the technical assistance and technical
teacher-training courses included in Part B of the Project;
(j)   liaison with the Association and other external aid agencies involved
in the Project and with all appropriate authorities of the Borrower
in matters relating to the implementation of the Project;
(k)   setting up of an accounting system, keeping of Project accounts, and
preparation of such interim evaluations and financial statements, all
as required to comply with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement;
(1)   preparation of applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account;
and
(m)   evaluation of the progress of the Project and preparation of quarterly
progress reports for submission to the Borrower and the Association.


