Report No. PIC1792
Project Name                       Senegal-Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                             Africa
Sector                             Agriculture
Project ID                         SNPA2356
Borrower                           Government of Senegal
Implementing Agency                Ministry of Agriculture
H. E. Mr. Robert Sagna, Minister of the
State, Minister of Agriculture
Dakar, Senegal
Date PID Prepared                  March 7, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date           March 20, 1995
Projected Board Date               June 6, 1995
Country and Sector Background
1.     Senegal has a population of 7.8 million growing at 2.9 percent per year.
It is located in the semi-arid Sahel where annual fluctuations in rainfall
are considerable and agriculture is subject to recurrent periods of severe
droughts. Its physical natural resource endowment is limited to mediocre
agricultural land with significant irrigation possibilities and offshore
fishing. Most people (60 percent) derive their income from agriculture,
which, nevertheless, contributes only 20 percent to GDP. Per capita income
amounted to US$707 in 1993.
2.     After many years of uneven economic performance, the Government was
faced with a deteriorating macroeconomic situation in the early 1990's. The
economy was mired in a low-level equilibrium characterized by a sustained
recession and underutilized capacity. Internal adjustment measures were
insufficient to restore the competitiveness of the economy and its growth
prospects, given the extent of the exchange rate overvaluation. The CFA
devaluation in January 1994 offered Senegal a unique opportunity to break
through to sustained growth. It is also proving to be a powerful impetus
for reform and important long-stalled reforms have been undertaken.
Project Objectives
3.     The overall objective of   the proposed project is to promote
sustainable agricultural growth. To this end, the program supported by the
AG-SECAL has four key elements : (i)liberalizing domestic marketing and
pricing of rice at both producer and consumer levels and privatizing the
processing of rice, thereby eliminating subsidies in local rice production;
(ii)reforming agricultural trade regime through liberalizing external trade
in those agricultural products still under Government control by eliminating
all prior authorizations for the import and export of these crops (rice,
vegetable oils, groundnut oil seeds, sugar, and wheat flour), determining
appropriate protective tariffs for these key agricultural commodities, and
(in the case of cotton and groundnuts) linking domestic producer prices to
world prices; (iii) privatizing the production, processing and marketing of
agricultural products in those subsectors still dominated by parastatals,



namely groundnuts and rice; and (iv) preparing a three-year rolling
investment program for the agricultural sector which respects clear
sectoral priorities established in consultation with donors.
Project Description
4.     The project is an adjustment operation in support of the objectives
outlined above. The project will be released in two tranches.
Project Financing
5.     IDA proposes to support this project with a credit of US$45 million,
representing roughly 4.5 percent of the projected residual external financing for
the period 1994-98. The counterpart funds will assist Government in carrying
out reforms which are expected to have a budgetary impact in excess of US$100
million. The other donors would provide a mixture of fast-disbursing aid and
project support. Donors which have expressed interest in supporting this
program of reforms are the French, the European Union and the Federal
Republic of Germany. Separately, USAID has already provided US$31 million
in support of reforms in the domestic and imported rice sector.
Project Implementation
6.     The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
project execution, and its recently established Agricultural Policy Unit
would be strengthened to carry out the long-term perspective study and
monitor and expedite project implementation. It will continue to work
closely with the Ministry of Economy and Finance. A working group has been
established consisting of a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Presidency to act as counterpart
for supervision missions.
Project Sustainability
7.     Many of the reforms included in the proposed project have long been
on the agenda in Senegal. The major risk is that what has not been done in
the past will not be done again. Two developments have contributed to
mitigate this risk. The first is the intense debate in Senegal in 1993 on
the austerity measures proposed by the Government. Public opinion has been
educated on the costs of monopolies and there is political pressure from
below to put an end to such practices. Second, the changes in prices
resulting from the devaluation have fundamentally altered Senegal's economic
picture. The proposed reforms also have internal constituencies: (i) they
are supported within the administration by a new generation of forward
looking technicians; and (ii) they emanate from the private sector which is
organizing itself to obtain a policy environment more conductive to the
development of its activities
8.      Poverty Category:   Not Applicable
9.      Environmental Aspects
In conformity with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no
environmental rating has been assigned. Under the AG-SECAL the Government
proposes to prepare and implement a scheme for and to adapt existing
- 2-



legislation to an integrated and participative natural resource management.
The preparation of the scheme and the adaptation of existing legislation for
natural resource management are expected to be completed in December 1995.
Contact Point:        Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily
be included in the final project.
-3-



