Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6610-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 29 MILLION (US$45 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MAY 11, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of May 1995)
Currency Unit             =              CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                  =              CFAF 491
CFAF 1 million            =              US$ 2,037
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                   U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)               =              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =              0.62 miles (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)                 0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 hectare (ha)            =              2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)          =              2,205 pounds (lb.)
1 kilogram (kg)           =              2.2046 pounds (lb.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG-SECAL          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BOAD              Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
(West African Development Bank)
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CFD               Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement
CNCAS             Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole du Senegal
CONSERE           Conseil National Superieur d l'Environnement et de Ressource
Naturelles (National Environmental Council)
CPSP              Caisse de P&equation et de Stabilisation des Prix
(Price Stabilization Agency)
CSS               Compagnie Sucriere Senegalaise
(Senegal Sugar Company)
ERC               Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FGPA              Groundnut Price Stabilization Fund
GOS               Government of Senegal
IM                Initiating Memorandum
ISRA              Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
(Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute)
LADP              Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
(Lettre de Politique de Developpement Agricole)
MDR               Ministere du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
NEAP              National Environmental Action Plan
NPA               New Agricultural Policy
PDRG              Project for the Development of the Left Bank of the Senegal River
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PSAC              Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit
SAED              Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du Fleuve Senegal
(Senegal River Valley Development Agency)
SAF               Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL               Structural Adjustment Loan
SENELEC           Senegal Electricity Company
SODEFITEX         Societe pour le D6veloppement des Fibres Textiles
(Cotton Development Agency)
SODESP            Soci6t6 pour le Developpement de l'Elevage de la Zone Sylvo-pastorale
(Sylvo-pastoral Livestock Authority)
SONACOS           Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Oleagineux
(Groundnut Oil Company)
SONAGRAINES   Societe Nationale des Graines
UNACOIS           National Union of Senegalese Traders and Industrialists
URIC              Unite Rizerie et Commercialisation
(former unit of SAED responsible for rice processing and marketing)
WAEMU             West African Economic and Monetary Union
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



!



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Credit and  Program   Summary  .....................................................................i
PART I. THE MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS .......2
A. IDA  Assistance  Strategy ....................................................................5
PART  II.  THE  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  .....................................................................8
A. The Agricultural Sector's Role in the Economy .....................................................................8
B. The Government's Medium-term   Agricultural Sector Strategy .............................................. 11
PART  III.  THE  PROPOSED   CREDIT .....................................................................                                                   12
A. The Policy Reform   Program  ..................................................................                                                     13
B.  Credit Features .................................................................. 24
C. Agreements Reached  and  Conditionality  ...........................................                                    ........................ 24
D. Credit Benefits and Risks .................................................................. 30
E.  Recommendation  ................................................................... 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I:      Policy Agenda Matrix .......................................                      32
Annex II:     Letter of Agricultural Sector Development Policy ....................................... 35
Annex III:    Agricultural Sector Characteristics ....................................... 74
Annex IV:    Main Issues on Rural Savings and Credit, Institutional Development
and Livestock Sector ..................................                          85
Annex V:    Poverty and Social Development Indicators ..................................        88
Annex VI:   Key Economic Indicators .................................. 90
Annex VII:  Key Exposure Indicators .................................. 92
Annex VIII: Status of Bank Group Operations .93
Annex IX: Relations with the International Monetary Fund .97
Annex X:  Timetable of Key Processing Events .98
This operation was prepared by a team comprising Cadman Atta Mills (Senior Economist and Task Manager,
AFlMI), Katrine Saito (Senior Economist and Task Manager, AF5AE), Mohamed Ben-Senia (Consultant,
AF5AE), Hovsep Melkonian (LOAAF) and Philippe Benoit (LEGAF). Serge Michailov (AF4DR) and Adrian
Otten (AF5AE) were the Peer Reviewers. Catherine Doody provided secretarial support. Jean-Louis Sarbib and
Randolph Harris are respectively the Department Director and the Managing Division Chief for the operation.
Fransois Laporte is the Lead Economist.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries:     The Government of Senegal and the private sector
Amount:           IDA Credit: SDR 29 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:            IDA Credit : Standard with 40-year maturity
Program Description: The overall objective of the proposed credit is to  support the
Government's program to resume structural adjustment in agriculture
following the January 1994 devaluation. The credit will support a program
of policy reforms needed to establish an environment conducive to supply-
response and self-sustained growth of the agricultural sector.  The
measures included in the reform program are an essential part of the
reforms agreed upon with the Bank and the IMF in August 1994, in the
context of the PFP for the period 1994-1997. The reform program aims
at : (i) liberalizing the domestic marketing and pricing of rice at both
producer and consumer levels and privatizing the processing of rice,
thereby eliminating subsidies in local rice production; (ii) reforming the
agricultural trade regime. The liberalization of the external trade in those
agricultural products still under Government control (i.e. rice, vegetable
oils, groundnut oil seeds, sugar, and wheat flour) is being undertaken by:
eliminating all prior authorizations for the import and export of these crops,
determining appropriate protective tariffs for these commodities, and (in
the case of cotton and groundnuts) linking domestic producer prices to
world prices; (iii) privatizing the production, processing and marketing of
agricultural products in those subsectors still dominated by parastatals,
namely groundnuts and rice; and (iv) preparing a three-year rolling
investment program for the agricultural sector which respects clear sectoral
priorities established in consultation with donors.
Benefits:          The expected benefits of the credit would be to: (i) create an environment
favorable to sustainable agricultural development that would promote
economic growth through increased supply response; (ii) help the
Government, through balance of payments support, maintain appropriate
macro-economic equilibrium; and (iii) contribute to the improvement of
living conditions by eliminating policies that have been detrimental to the
poor, mainly through the abolition of monopolies and the completion of
trade liberalization.



ii
Risks:             Many of the reforms included in the proposed program have long been on
the agenda in Senegal. While it is impossible to guarantee that what has not
been done in the past will be done this time, the Region's assessment is that
the recent implementation of long delayed measures and the appointment of
a national unity Government make the remaining risks well worth taking.
First, compared to the past, the political context is different and the
Government's commitment to reforms is much stronger, as evidenced by
many difficult measures already taken by the Government. Among these,
the most notable are the re-negotiation of the sugar convention with the
CSS; the introduction of private sector imports of broken rice and the total
liberalization of the domestic rice sector; the endorsement of the National
Assembly to privatize SONACOS and the significant steps already taken by
the Government to that end. Second, the reform program to be supported
by the credit is heavily front-loaded. The Government has appointed a
transitional administration to manage SONACOS and assist with its
privatization as a condition of Board presentation. Three developments
have significantly reduced the risk of backtracking on this reform program.
First is the intense debate which has taken place in Senegal on austerity
measures proposed by the Government. The public has become more
aware of the costs of monopolies and there is political pressure from below
to put an end to such practices. Second, the changes in prices resulting
from the devaluation have fundamentally altered Senegal's economic
prospects. However, doubts remain on the depth of commitment of the
civil servants to a program destined to significantly curtail their power and
authority. Third, the reform program has the endorsement of all the donors
active in providing assistance to Senegal's agricultural sector.  The
proposed reforms also have internal constituencies : (i) they are supported
within the administration by a new generation of forward-looking
technicians; and (ii) they emanate from the private sector which is
organizing itself to obtain a policy environment more conducive to the
development of its activities.
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Poverty Category:   Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:   Not Applicable
Estimated
Disbursements:     - US$25 million equivalent would be disbursed upon credit effectiveness;
- US$20 million equivalent would be disbursed upon satisfaction of the
conditions for release of the second tranche.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 29 million, the equivalent of US$45
million. The credit is to support the country's structural adjustment efforts with particular focus
on the development of the agricultural sector. The credit is to be disbursed in two tranches of
US$25 million and US$20 million each. It would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of
40 years, in support of an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (AG-SECAL). A Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board on February 16, 1995.
2.    The program is the result of a long period of intermittent dialogue with the Government
and close collaboration with other donors. The dialogue with the Government intensified when
Senegal, along with the African members of the Franc Zone, devalued its currency in January
1994, opening a window of opportunity to rekindle a long stagnant economy. The devaluation
also eliminated a number of rent-creating distortions, thus significantly altering the political
economy of reform in Senegal. The Government is taking advantage of these changes to resume
structural adjustment after a long period of interruption.
3.    The AG-SECAL would address the most urgent obstacles to economic growth in the
agricultural sector and, along with the recently approved Private Sector Adjustment and
Competitiveness Credit (PSAC), would support specific policy and regulatory reforms agreed
under the Policy Framework Paper (PFP), and aimed at alleviating constraints that still impede the
development of the private sector. Three other donors -- USAID, the French Government and
the European Union -- have agreed to contribute approximately US$90 million to the adjustment
program. Government, IDA and the above three donors have worked closely together to define
the scope of the adjustment program and a consensus on its content has been reached. Two joint
donor pre-appraisal missions took place in August 1994 and in January 1995. The Agricultural
Adjustment Program is reflected in the Government's "Lettre de Politique de Developpement
Agricole" (LPDA) dated April 1995 (see Annex II).



2
PART I. THE MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS
4.    Past Economic Performance. At independence in 1960, Senegal inherited a relatively well
developed economy. Performance was satisfactory until 1966, while Senegal benefited from
guaranteed prices for its main agricultural export crops, but deteriorated significantly between
1967 and 1974 when this advantage was lost. Between 1974 and 1978, a fortuitous combination
of good rainfall and high world prices for groundnuts and phosphates led to an export boom and
excessive public spending. A succession of droughts together with a substantial deterioration in
terms of trade and increasing structural inefficiencies between 1978 and 1981 reversed Senegal's
fortunes again and led the country to launch a series of adjustment programs starting with an I[DA
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) in 1980. However, this credit was canceled before second
tranche release because of failure to implement agreed reforms in agriculture.
henegal's aeonwithannualrrainfall darying from 120s wam dinsnornth  and  adusminth
efouth. laggead despuaites fine Wraifank atruconidrable andscoa agriustmreni uet crdto, ecurreantby
pe  ads oSF seareadgeughts, and phsuppoab oatue  utltral raorc   ndw t bisaerlaiitd tgenced. iotle
structural adjuswmen ~tookplace inigtihe forstihlftiofand o980salhoreuigh, drnthaweperio, ithase
mv~acroeconomic siuton teestaizeda tipeo Afriscal and aurgenerll pleaoant deficatse.e signiicantly
reduesd.t aborsubtatl cha0e toure afer195 andeposs%o ah contrw laovrnfrne.t wthamoe faia, krm
hcommaitment to beonom erice enrform tade prgeslbralizding traego and thecontroling minterlrides,
simplifying tshetaxl str~uctureay,r rofomen inbthc entenpise. sereamliingtae incoewstmentinctedntive
5.8Senegal'sD geconomic pverfoermance duringeranuman the 1f8saiscappoeinting aonddutmenudto
effortse laggedg despit five Worl Bank stutua anGetDaPdutmn.rdis            sady
stutua adjstentr tooke pacheveinthe firsnt haluofthied. 8  aThouh dureiaiongo that period, thre
marecoomcliuationsiegbrng sabiizd asothetfisgcaltre and currentiaccoun defctsrwereasignioficantlym
reduced. Moreavsubstantialrvchanges occurredCF aftra1985 as ah ponew gh$thovernment wihamrevfirme
cometmaen tobecaiztonpomicirefor madte prorslierailizng trcadge randteontroln mecorst prices,o
simplifyng threitax srctur,pefitormad,ing publicsenteris, stareamligniengo the inetenthinenrties i
devalationecssr in neighorintn ompeghtaing countries an aecondetinuingdteriorat.Ion ofdithen therm
of tradeaggravated......the o ...a..tio of. th.. Afac.oth.onttatteGoenm..evre
the trade liberalization policies. With the prevailing exhage"... . rate,ms  etr  olo
withstand foreign competition and, in the  absence~... of ' a .. relgme ntfheexhagerae,i
becme  ecesar toresrt o  ightarff ate asa scon  bst nstumet.  n aditon,th



3
Government became increasingly preoccupied with domestic political concerns while high levels
of aid (more than twice the Sub-Saharan average in 1989) allowed authorities to postpone
necessary adjustments. As a result, overall growth was low: during 1986-1992, real GDP growth
was only 3.1 % per annum, barely exceeding the annual population growth.
7.    Recent Economic Performance.  In 1992 and 1993, the fiscal and balance of payments
positions deteriorated and external payments arrears accumulatedl. The economy experienced
sharp contractions in key sectors, notably fishing, phosphates, groundnuts, and food processing.
The inability of firms to compete implied a shrinking tax base which led the Government to
increase its reliance on exceptional revenue measures, such as heavy taxation of petroleum
imports, and on last minute juggling and various ad-hoc measures (e.g., payment of tax arrears by
certain enterprises in return for offsetting payments of non-budgeted export subsidies). This, in
turn, had an adverse impact on production costs and forced more firms to close or join the
informal economy.
8.    Changing Course. To halt this deterioration, in August 1993 the authorities adopted
internal adjustment measures, including a cut in public sector wages and an increase in import
duties and the price of petroleum products. Although these measures reduced the imbalances, the
real exchange rate overvaluation had become so large that they came too late to restore
competitiveness to the economy.  Growth prospects remained poor.  Nevertheless, the
authorities' decision to impose strict measures had a profound impact on Senegalese society by
forcing a debate on economic development issues, which had, until then, been virtually
nonexistent. In January 1994, the Government of Senegal, in close consultation with other CFA
zone member countries, decided to strengthen its adjustment strategy by changing the parity of
the CFA franc from 50 CFAF/FF to 100 CFAF/FF. In addition, the Senegalese Government took
a series of key macroeconomic and structural measures to regain and consolidate competitiveness.
These measures included : (i) increases in key producer prices (groundnuts, cotton); (ii) a
substantial program of social measures to alleviate the effects of the devaluation on the vulnerable
groups; (iii) prudent demand management policies to reduce absorption by the public sector and
limit wage increases; (iv) reduction and simplification of tariffs and domestic taxation; and (v)
protection of social expenditures. IDA supported the implementation of these measures through
the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) approved by the Board in March 1994.
9.    Response of the Economy. Over 1994 as a whole, inflation remained below the 40%
target, resulting in a real depreciation of over 30% in foreign currency terms -- sufficient to permit
renewed economic growth provided that accompanying structural reforms are implemented.
There are already indications of an economic recovery in several sectors where the devaluation
has had a particularly favorable impact. Comparing the first half of 1994 with that of 1993,
increases in production of industrial products ranged from 14% to 32% and tourist arrivals grew
by 30%.
10.   The Government's Medium-term Development Strategy. To guarantee the success of the
devaluation and reach its development objectives, the Government realizes that the parity change
IThe fiscal balance (excluding grants) declined from a 0.2% surplus in 1991 to a 3.9% deficit in 1993 and the current
account balance, excluding official transfers, deteriorated from a 8.7% to a 9.9% deficit over the same period.



4
must be accompanied with measures designed to pass the benefits of the devaluation on to rural
producers, reduce Government expenditure and limit wage increases, address the political and
social dimensions, and accelerate the structural reforms necessary to stimulate a supply response,
including reforms supporting the private sector.
11.   The Government's 1994-96 adjustment program  as described in the Sixth Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) of July 1994 has five main objectives: (i) achieving a real GDP growth
rate of 4.7 % in 1995 and 4.8% in 1996; (ii) increasing the investment-to-GDP ratio from 14.1%
in 1993 to 16.7% in 1996 and improving the efficiency of public investment; (iii) achieving
primary surpluses in the Government's budget (budget deficits on a commitment basis excluding
grants to be reduced from 4.5% of GDP in 1994 to 1.7% in 1996); and (iv) containing the
external current account deficit, excluding official transfers, to 9.8% of GDP in 1994, and reduce
it to 7.3% in 1996. The Government strategy also includes measures to improve public sector
management comprising : (i) adopting a three-year public investment program taking into account
the devaluation of the CFAF; (ii) reducing the wage bill through an audit of the civil service; and
(iii) continuing the Government's divestiture program by privatizing 12 of the 40 remaining public
enterprises over the period covered by the PFP (3 to be privatized by June 30, 1995). As a first
step immediately after the devaluation, the Government: (i) established a maximum 45% limit on
import tariffs including the 5% stamp duty; (ii) reduced the number of Value Added Tax (VAT)
rates from five to three, with a maximum rate of 20%; (iii) increased energy and utilities prices to
reflect more their current economic costs of production; and (iv) passed through the benefits of
the devaluation to agricultural producers. The Government also announced its determination to
accelerate structural reforms necessary to bolster the supply-response through long delayed
reforms to liberalize external trade, the labor market, and the agricultural sector.
12.   Senegal's outstanding external debt totaled about US$3.7 billion in 1993, or 64.7% of
GDP. Debt outstanding as a percentage of GDP has naturally increased as a result of the
devaluation and is projected to be 73.3% in 1996. However, debt service as a share of exports is
expected to decrease from 21.5% in 1993 to 18.8% in 1996. In 1993, 60.8% of Senegal's total
debt disbursed and outstanding was concessional. Senegal's strategy is to contract new debt
exclusively on concessional terms and the ratio of concessional to total debt is expected to be
exceed 75% by the end of the decade. The country recently benefited from a generous Paris Club
rescheduling in addition to receiving extensive debt relief from France. Senegal is also eligible for
the Fifth Dimension financing from IDA reflows. A commercial debt buyback operation is under
preparation.
13.   External financing requirements before adjustment support and debt relief are estimated at
US$247 million for 1995-96. These requirements will be met by projected adjustment support of
US$217 million and debt relief of US$8 million. The need for exceptional balance of payments
support is projected to be eliminated after 1997, at which time remaining balance of payments and
fiscal gaps will be met by debt relief



S
A.   IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
14.   IDA assistance strategy in Senegal is spelled out in the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which was discussed by the Board together with the Private Sector Adjustment and
Competitiveness Credit (PSAC) on February 16, 1995. The proposed operation is a key
component of the CAS and an essential element in ensuring that the economy derives the full
benefits of the CFAF devaluation. It has been prepared in a way that reflects the importance the
CAS attaches to strengthening the quality of our policy dialogue with various partners of
Senegalese society, such as Government officials, entrepreneurs, farmers' organizations and
NGO's.
15.   As described in the CAS, the main objective of the Bank is to help Senegal achieve
sustainable growth with equity and targeted poverty reduction. In the long-term, growth is likely
to emerge from export activities in agriculture and industry and from tourism and other services.
With Senegal's ocean access, agreeable climate and favorable location vis-a-vis Europe and the
USA, its traditional function as a regional service and tourist center would be expanded. Ocean
fisheries have potential and there is scope for light industries. The country would also benefit
from regional integration as, with the signing of the treaty transforming the West African
Monetary Union into an economic and monetary union (WAEMU), the potential for intra-
regional trade in a market of nearly 60 million people has greatly increased. However, all this
assumes that there will be continued improvement in the competitiveness of the economy and that
the business climate will become and remain conducive to private investment. Agriculture is likely
to remain an important sector in terms of employment and it is there that the supply response to
the devaluation is expected first. Initial data on supply response to the devaluation confirms a
positive supply response from agriculture (para. 9).
16.   The Instruments to Implement Bank Stratg. Structural reform in agriculture is expected
to expand the production of traditional export and food crops and non-traditional and high value
crops in the short- and medium-term. The promotion of agriculture and improvement of the
incentive structure for private sector activities (supported by the PSAC) go hand in hand and will
equally benefit from the Government's macroeconomic objectives and strategy presented in the
Policy Framework Paper. The most important measures supported by the PSAC concern
regulatory reform and the elimination of bottlenecks to supply response. These include: reduction
in transport costs and liberalization of labor legislation; elimination of monopolies and price
controls resulting from Conventions Sp&iales and prior authorizations. Other sectors which are
directly relevant to competitiveness are the financial and energy sectors. The banking system is
relatively healthy, due to comprehensive restructuring. In the absence of a restructuring of the
electricity company (SENELEC), the energy sector will remain inefficient.  Recently, the
Government has requested the Bank to re-launch discussions on the Energy II project which
would address this issue.
17.   The proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AG-SECAL) is the Bank's
instrument for agricultural reform to stimulate supply responses to the devaluation and to
revitalize the sector's long-term incentive system. The reform program is described in detail in the
Policy Reform section (paras. 39-75). In further support of the agricultural sector, aspects not



6
covered by the AG-SECAL are included in other ongoing operations or others under
consideration. These include the Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2108-SE), the Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 2107-SE), a proposed Agricultural Services and Professional Organizations
Project (FY97) focusing on agricultural research, extension and veterinary services, and a possible
Senegal Valley Development Project, which would establish an economically justified as well as
financially and environmentally sustainable integrated development of the water resources in the
Senegal River Valley. Concerning the environment, the Government is developing a National
Environmental Action Plan with assistance from the Bank, based on a CESP which was discussed
and agreed with the Government (Report No.13292-SE).
18.   Lessons Learned. As mentioned earlier, Senegal's performance under the last adjustment
operation (SAL IV) supported by the Bank was disappointing and the third tranche was canceled.
A Bank analysis of the implementation of past adjustment programs indicates that two major
factors are responsible for their relative lack of success. First, in the past, the availability of
quick-disbursing budgetary assistance has had the undesirable effect of focusing government
attention primarily on the accessibility of such funds, often to the detriment of long-term
development issues. Consequently, the government's ownership of the reform programs might
have been overestimated. Second, although the design of the previous adjustment programs
improved over time, the implementation of the reforms had some serious sequencing
shortcomings because of the difficulty in implementing key measures. In particular, liberalizing
external trade before eliminating such key constraints to enterprise competitiveness, such as the
over-valued exchange rate, labor rigidities, and high cost of production, was not sustainable.
19.   The design of the proposed credit takes into account the lessons learned from past
adjustment operations in Senegal. First, particular attention has been given to the ownership
issue. During preparation and appraisal, efforts were made to develop the consensus necessary to
successfully implement fundamental changes. As noted earlier, this program has had a long
gestation period but the program did not go forward due to the lack of consensus between
Government and donors, and the deteriorating macroeconomic situation. The nature of the
dialogue improved significantly after the currency devaluation in January 1994, thereby creating
an excellent opportunity to restore economic growth as well as to eliminate a number of rent-
creating distortions. In this way, the political economy of Senegal has been significantly changed.
20.   Status of Bank Group Operations. As of Jan. 31, 1995, the Bank Group had approved
103 operations for total commitments of about US$ 1.3 billion consisting of 71 IDA credits, 20
Bank loans, and 12 IFC operations. To date, 59 IDA credits and the 20 IBRD loans have been
fully disbursed. Of the remaining, two are a hybrid adjustment/investment operation (Transport
SECAL) and a supplemental credit (Fifth Dimension through the Emergency Recovery Credit).
The rest are divided between agriculture (three), infrastructure (two), human resources
development (two), industry (one), and a technical assistance project. Since the devaluation, an
Economic Recovery Credit was approved in March 1994 and the Private Sector Adjustment and
Competitiveness Credit (PSAC) was approved in February 1995.  Among the operations
supported by IFC, three were in the financial sector, four in industry, one in services, two in
agriculture, and two in fish processing. IFC's current loan and equity investment portfolio is
composed of five operations: ICS (phosphoric acid and fertilizers), which was restructured in



7
1987 and whose financial position is now improved; African Seafood (fish processing), which is in
receivership; Africamer (fish processing), which is facing cash flow problems; a leasing company;
and an agribusiness project. These projects did not perform well because of a combination of
external and policy problems, but their performance is expected to improve after the devaluation
and the improvement of the environment for private sector activities.
21.   Status of IMF-Senegal Relations. As of January 31, 1995 Senegal's outstanding use of
Fund resources amounted to the equivalent of SDR 205.4 million (172.8% of quota). If the full
amount under the ESAF arrangements were drawn, Senegal's use of Fund resources, taking into
account scheduled repurchases and repayments, would increase to SDR 241.2 million (202.9% of
quota) by end-June 1997.



8
PART II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR'S ROLE IN THE ECONOMY
22.    The Agricultural Sector Background.  In contrast to most African countries, the
agricultural sector (including forestry, livestock and fishery) accounts for a modest share of GDP
(20%). Agriculture is, however, the main occupation of 60% of the population. It also accounts
for a large portion of foreign exchange earnings, with groundnut export earnings ranking third to
fish exports and tourism earnings. Although declining in relative importance, groundnuts account
for about 60% of farm cash income.
23.    Sector Characteristics.  Arable land in Senegal is estimated at 3.7 million hectares of
which an average of 2.3 million hectares is cultivated annually. Rain-fed agriculture predominates
with production under irrigation accounting for about 4% of cultivated area. On average, export
crops (principally groundnuts and cotton) account for about 50% of cultivated area with food
crops (millet, rice, sorghum, and maize) comprising the rest. There are, however, marked annual
variations in areas under export and food crop production. In particular, in years following
droughts (e.g. 1985/86), the area under food crops increased significantly, reaching as high as
66% of cultivated area. Pastoral production has traditionally been significant, accounting on
average for 35% of the agricultural value added. Rangeland is estimated at 12 million hectares,
but its productivity (in terms of biomass production) is extremely variable and lowest in the low
rainfall north where pastoral activities are also the most important. Overgrazing of rangeland is a
serious threat while the availability of water resources is the main obstacle to the development and
intensification of the livestock subsector.
24.   Recent Sector Performance.  During the second half of the 1980s, total agricultural
production registered a modest increase of 2.7% per annum. While this was better than the early
1980s, which was poor as a result of droughts, it was still barely enough to keep up with
population growth. The modest performance of the agricultural sector has been accompanied by a
sharp decline in traditional exports, especially groundnut oil and cake, and large deficits of
parastatals involved in groundnut and cotton exports; degradation of soils due to the combined
effect of drier than normal rainy seasons, soil erosion, salinization and acidification, deforestation,
overgrazing and extensive cultural practices; high overall population and urbanization growth
rates (2.9% and 4.3% respectively), coupled with a rural exodus especially of young men and
women. Moreover, there are indications that progress made in the late 1970s in the use of inputs
and improved technology is being reversed. For example, fertilizer use dropped from 75,000 tons
in 1980 to 25,000 tons in 1990 in part because of the abolition of subsidies which coincided with a
decline in cashcrop prices2. There is a perceptible trend towards more labor-intensive production
2   There is increasing evidence that farmers' use of purchased inputs declined not due solely to an increase in input prices
but as a result of the combined effect of input price increases and product price declines. In particular, in the Sahel,
research evidence suggests that farmers turn to extensive methods of cultivation whenever purchased input costs become
greater than 30% of expected output prices.



9
methods.  Annex III describes the main agricultural subsectors and Table 1 of Annex m
summarizes key agricultural statistics.
25.   Prospects for Agricultural Development.  Since the recent parity change and the
significant increases in the international prices of cotton and vegetable oils, the prospects for
Senegal's main export and import substitution crops have markedly improved. Regarding the
traditional rain-fed export crops of groundnuts and cotton, over the long-term Senegal appears to
have a comparative advantage in cotton production. Indicators of production incentives and
efficiency3 calculated for cotton and groundnuts suggest that Senegal has lower domestic
resource costs in cotton than in groundnut production.
26.   Due to the parity change, prospects for the livestock subsector should also significantly
improve over the short- and medium-term, especially for the exports of leather and hides. In the
short-term, meat products will be better able to compete in the domestic market with cheap (and
often highly subsidized) imports. In the medium to long-term, however, there are considerable
physical and infrastructural constraints that sharply limit these prospects. These include the
carrying capacity of grazing land, a commercial circuit for meat products which is largely
undeveloped, and endemic diseases and parasites which frequently lead to significant losses of
herds in the traditional and extensive livestock subsector. The prospects for traditional food
crops, especially maize, have also considerably improved as a result of the devaluation.
27.   Over the medium- to long-term, the best prospects for sustained agricultural growth are in
the development of high value horticultural products primarily for export. Senegal has a strong
potential for irrigation development (in the Senegal Valley as well as in the Casamance) which
augurs well for a more determined move towards efficient, high value-added export agricultural
production such as fruits and vegetables.
28.   Past Sector Adjustment Performance.  The main constraint to sustainable growth in
Senegalese agriculture has been the heavy hand of the state in all aspects of agricultural
production.  The state has been omnipresent in input pricing and distribution, import of
agricultural products and inputs, setting and administering the prices of virtually all agricultural
commodities, and in the processing and marketing of agricultural products.
29.   Past SALs have attempted to address this constraint. SAL I (FY81) included a number of
policy reforms to begin liberalizing the agricultural sector. The Government, however, was not
able to implement agreed reforms concerning fertilizer and seed distribution and the second
tranche of the credit was canceled on June 30, 1983, after a long and difficult dialogue on
agricultural policies. The thrust of SALs II and III consisted of revitalizing agriculture to increase
and diversify agricultural production and exports. The strategy consisted of fostering private
sector initiative through a change in incentive policies and a progressive withdrawal of the state
from direct involvement in production activities; achieving greater efficiency of public
investments; and reforming public agencies. Specifically, the Government's New Agricultural
3   See David Jones and Cindy Holleman, 1991. "Senegal's Structure of Protection and Comparative Advantage in Cereal and
Export Crop Production" Agriculture Division, Sahel Department, Washington DC.: World Bank.



lo
Policy (NPA) which was supported by SAL II, sought to liberalize most agricultural prices,
increase cereals production and privatize internal marketing and import of cereals, expand
production and streamline the marketing of groundnuts, decontrol the supply of agricultural
inputs and reduce subsidies, redefine the role and functions of rural development agencies, and
strengthen the investment planning and management capacity of the Ministry of Rural
Development.
30.    The record of achievement under SAL II was generally good. Significant progress was
made on : (i) the development of cereals production through provision of adequate nominal
protection for domestic cereals and the liberalization of internal marketing and pricing; (ii)
liberalization of the groundnut sector with Government withdrawing from seed distribution and
with the elimination of subsidies to cover oil milling fixed costs; (iii) the decontrol of fertilizer
imports and the reduction of price subsidies; and (iv) the scaling back of the activities of rural
development agencies and the revision of contractual agreements for the agencies responsible for
irrigation (SAED) and cotton development (SODEFITEX). Under SAL III, the achievements of
SAL II were consolidated and the reforms extended to include: (i) establishing a weekly price
information system for the major cereals markets; (ii) reducing the farmgate prices of groundnuts
in response to a sharp drop in international prices, rationalizing SONACOS operations to reduce
costs and initiating an external management and financial audit of this oil milling parastatal; (iii)
completely eliminating fertilizer subsidies in 1988/89 and totally decontrolling compound fertilizer
imports; (iv) decontrolling meat prices and eliminating the monopoly on hide and skin trade; and
(v) developing coherent policies on pricing and farm credit. SAL III also attempted to address a
number of issues concerning the private sugar monopoly "Compagnie Sucriere Senegalaise"
(CSS)4.
31.   The SALs, however, were less successful in eliminating rents associated with import
monopolies. No progress was made on the liberalization of rice imports. There were significant
delays in the adoption of measures for SONACOS (also an importer of edible oils) under SAL III
and the privatization of SONACOS, proposed under SAL IV, was not achieved. Regarding
sugar, the Government was not prepared to address the issue of CSS monopoly and eliminate its
excessive fiscal advantages. This was due to the significant rents conferred by the import
monopolies and, as a result, the powerful interests, including political, that opposed these reforms.
The devaluation of the CFAF has significantly changed the situation. Rents associated with the
import of rice have vanished and, under the previous rice consumer pricing regime, the broken
rice importing monopoly (CPSP) had serious difficulties covering its costs. SONACOS no
longer earns huge margins on imports of vegetable oil; and since August 1993, 100% of CSS
margins on the imports of sugar have been appropriated by Government. In addition, a powerful
national private sector (such as the National Union of Senegalese Traders and Industrialists--
UNACOIS) has emerged and been very vocal in its opposition to past privileges granted to vested
interests.
4   In the case of CSS: (i) direct subsidies from the Government (perequation) were eliminated in November 1987 as well as
Government guarantee of CSS borrowings; (ii) the company adopted a restructuring plan, including targets for cost
reduction; and (iii) a financial and operational audit of the company was performed by an independent auditor for the
Government. A system to verify the nature and quantity of CSS's imports, which benefit from custom duty exemptions,
was also established, but does not seem to have been maintained.



11
B.    THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR STRATEGY
32.   Between 1991 and 1993, there was a hiatus in Bank and Government dialogue as the
Government failed to undertake reforms agreed with the Bank, especially in the rice and
groundnut subsectors. In the fall of 1993, Government reopened formal discussions on the AG-
SECAL with the Bank and various other donors. These initial contacts culminated in a three-day
"Journees de Reflexion" in December 1993, when the Minister of State for Agriculture, at his
suggestion, led a high level Senegalese delegation to Washington to discuss Senegal's new
strategy for agricultural development in the medium-term. At these discussions, the Senegalese
authorities and the Bank concluded that : (i) the macroeconomic environment of Senegal (and
especially the overvaluation of the CFAF) was not conducive to agricultural sector growth; (ii)
the fundamental causes of the lack of competitiveness of the agricultural sector could be traced to
Senegal's non-application of reform measures previously agreed with the donor community and
the policy of administered prices; and (iii) the resulting decline in private investment and of donor
assistance to the sector were detrimental to sectoral growth.
33.   The Government, therefore, announced its intention to prepare a new sectoral strategy and
program based on the need to: (i) create an environment conducive to agricultural investment; (ii)
give support to new and innovative agricultural technology; (iii) develop rural infrastructure; (iv)
give more attention to the management of natural resources; (v) leave decisions concerning
production practices to producers and promote private sector initiatives; and (vi) focus the
Government's role on the provision of production-supporting social infrastructure and services
and improve efficiency of service delivery.
34.   These general principles are fully reflected in the Letter of Agricultural Development
Policy (LADP - Annex II) prepared by Government in August 1994, and updated in April 1995.
The Government sets six main objectives for its medium-term agricultural development strategy:
(i) a target agricultural growth rate of 4% per annum; (ii) improved food security through
intensification of production; (iii) the creation of agricultural employment to increase rural
purchasing power; (iv) improved management of natural resources guided by a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP); (v) promotion of private investment; and (vi) improved
efficiency in public resource management.
35.   The LADP represents a consensus among the Government, donors and representatives of
the private sector and is the result of discussions in March and April 1994, and a Donors' Round
Table in May 1994. These talks involved representatives of various Government bodies and
parastatals, producer organizations, NGOs and key private agro-processing industries. Involving
as many Government and non-governmental actors as possible in the process of drawing up the
proposed AG-SECAL has helped build ownership of the adjustment program.  Several
components, notably the liberalization of broken rice imports and the abolition of all import and
export licenses for agricultural products, complement the recently-approved Private Sector
Adjustment Credit. To ensure the successful implementation of the agricultural sector program,
the Government has established an interministerial committee to monitor its implementation.



12
PART III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
36.   The overall objective of IDA's assistance to Senegal in the agricultural sector is to
promote sustainable agricultural growth. To this end, the program supported by the AG-SECAL
has four key elements:
*    First, liberalizing domestic marketing and pricing of all agricultural products, especially
rice at both producer and consumer levels, and privatizing the processing of rice, thereby
eliminating subsidies in local rice production.
*     Second, reforming the agricultural trade regime through liberalizing external trade in those
agricultural products still under Government control. This reform would be done by
eliminating all prior authorizations for the import and export of these crops (rice,
vegetable oils, groundnut oil seeds, sugar, and wheat flour), determining appropriate
protective tariffs for these key agricultural commodities, and (in the case of cotton and
groundnuts) linking domestic producer prices to world prices. The overriding principles
guiding the reform of the trade regime are to ensure adequate linkage between domestic
and world market prices, reduce special tariff protection over time towards the (WAEMU)
general tariff regime, and allow floor price support schemes which exclude Government
and work in a way to minimize financial and economic costs.
3     Third, privatizing the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products in
those subsectors still dominated by parastatals, namely groundnuts and rice (SONACOS,
CPSP, and URIC).
*     Fourth, preparing a three-year rolling investment program for the agricultural sector which
respects clear sectoral priorities established in consultation with donors. This investment
program would be more intensely debated with Government and donors in the context of
a planned integrated agricultural sector investment program. A three-year investment
program for the agricultural sector has been prepared (and endorsed by IDA) for the years
1995-97. Updating the three-year investment program, which will be reviewed by IDA, is
a critical element in strengthening the Government's management of the sector.
Consequently, Government updating the three-year rolling investment program for the
agricultural sector and its transmittal to IDA will be a condition of Second Tranche
release.
37.   Justification for the Credit. The economic justification for the AG-SECAL is based on the
link between the removal of obstacles to economic activity in the agricultural sector, and growth
in that sector. It is essential for Senegalese agriculture to take the greatest advantage of the
opportunities presented by the devaluation. The financial justification is based on the overall
financing requirements (para. 13), as estimated in the recent PFP and SPA documents, that are



13
necessary to maintain financial stability, pending a supply response to sustain economic growth.
The measures to be taken are expected to contribute to public revenue, or at least to stopping
accumulations of indebtedness that are ultimately a public charge.
38.    Other Donor Assistance. Additional support for the adjustment program will be provided
through parallel financing from USAID (US$ 31 million), the French Ministry of Cooperation and
the Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement, and the European Union. Support by these donors will
focus on providing the financial resources necessary to restructure key subsectors and enterprises,
as well as for investments in key subsectors.
A.   THE POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
39.    The Government's reform program  in agriculture is driven by three crucial objectives.
first, to liberalize prices and marketing of domestically-produced agricultural products and,
thereby eliminate all market distortions. Second, on trade policies, the goal is to promote efficient
import substitution by eliminating all quantitative restrictions and replacing them with protective
tariffs. Moreover, the protective tariffs must not only be demonstrated to be necessary and not
excessive (thereby protecting the interests of consumers), but must decline over time to ensure the
eventual international competitiveness of the various subsectors. Third, concerning the role of the
state and the place of agricultural parastatals, the objective is to disengage the state from
commercial activities and promote a greater role for the private sector.
Cereals Policy
40.    Current Marketing and Pricing Policies. The main outstanding cereals problem area is the
rice subsector5. The marketing and pricing of all cereals were liberalized under previous reform
programs supported by SAL I and SAL II. Until 1993, public enterprises were responsible for
collection, milling, and domestic transportation of locally grown rice (170,000 tons of paddy in
1993 or roughly 110,000 tons of rice). The Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix
(CPSP) is responsible for import and domestic transportation of imported 35% -plus broken rice
(350,000 tons on average per annum).
41.    Pre-devaluation Government policy had two main objectives: to provide low-cost rice for
consumers and to develop local irrigated rice production in the Senegal River Valley by providing
high producer prices and subsidies. In consequence, the official paddy price bore no relation to
official consumer prices of rice or intermediate costs. At official producer prices, the cost of local
rice was very high, almost 40% above the pre-devaluation official consumer price. Prior to the
5   In the rice subsector, the import, marketing and pricing of high quality rice (30% to 0% broken rice) were liberalized in
1990 but the import, marketing, processing, and pricing of more than 35% broken rice (the preferred rice in Senegal) is
still tightly controlled by the Government. In 1993, private firms were given the right to process local rice.



14
January 1994 devaluation, the price stabilization agency (CPSP), which had a total monopoly on
broken rice imports, covered direct losses incurred by the sole industrial rice processing unit
(URIC, a subsidiary of SAED) from a levy on imported rice. It could do this because the amount
of local rice purchased (about 50,000 tons) was far less than the quantity of rice it imported (in
excess of 300,000 tons). During the early 1990s, declining world prices and a constant consumer
price allowed CPSP to collect windfall profits and cover an increasing subsidy to domestic rice
production which was expanding.   This financial situation  proved  unsustainable  after the
devaluation that doubled the cost of imported rice. Annex III describes current characteristics
and the competitiveness of the subsector in detail.
42.    Proposed Policy Changes. The Government has five objectives in reforming this sector:
first, liberalize all imports, subject to an import levy that would provide partial stabilization of
domestic prices and would link domestic to world prices; second, remove all controls on domestic
trade; third, privatize rice milling; fourth, transfer most irrigation operation and maintenance costs
to producers; and fifth, end price controls and public sector intervention in the paddy and rice
markets. The LADP commits the Government to undertake all measures necessary to achieve
these goals. Already, considerable progress has been made in liberalizing the domestic rice sector
with the liberalization of domestic paddy prices and transfer of ownership of the Government-
owned rice mill (URIC) to former URIC employees which was completed on June 30, 19946.
Liberalization of the local paddy price is not expected to lead to increases in consumer rice prices
much above the current price of CFAF 180 per kilo as private milling is significantly more
efficient than the past SAED/CPSP process.
43.    Under the AG-SECAL the Government decided to open all rice imports to the private
sector starting in 1994 and to end CPSP involvement in rice imports. The Government further
decided that wholesale and retail prices would be decontrolled, transportation subsidies
eliminated, and all restrictions on internal trade in rice abolished. The withdrawal of CPSP from
rice imports and commercialization is being undertaken over an eighteen-month period, ending
February 19967. It began with domestic private operators acting as sub-contractors to CPSP for
the import of 50,000 tons of broken rice in 1994 as part of an agreement concluded between the
Government and the private sector8.
44.    In the transition period, CPSP's role in the import of broken rice will be limited to : (i)
negotiating umbrella agreements with rice exporting countries; and (ii) sub-contracting with
private importers for procuring  broken rice under the umbrella agreements.   CPSP  will,
henceforth, abandon the procurement practices of contracting rice imports to pre-selected private
6   In June 1994, the Government eliminated adminstered prices for domestic paddy. In addition, the Government passed a
decree removing prior authorization for the export of all cereals (including rice).
7   This seemingly long transition period was a compromise between an agreement that the Government had already signed
with the USAID providing for a three-year transition period for the disappearance of CPSP and the wishes of other
donors, including IDA, for a much shorter transition period. The Government has, however, informed IDA that it intends
to liquidate CPSP well before February 1996.
8   The Government and the local private sector agreed that CPSP would reserve 50,000 tons of its annual imports of broken
rice for local competitive bidding. The 50,000 tons were broken into much smaller lots (of about 5,000 tons) so as to put
them within reach of local importers.



15
operators (marche gre a gre) in favor of an international competitive bidding procedure. An open
and competitive procurement process has thus been established. At the end of the transition
period. CPSP will no longer import or distribute broken rice. This will be a condition of Second
Tranche release.
45.   As stated in the LADP, the Government also intends to phase out CPSP's role in the
distribution of imported rice in the local market over the eighteen-month transition period.
Already, rice retailers are permitted to obtain their supplies directly from the port of Dakar and
CPSP warehouses all over the provinces. In line with the LADP calendar. CPSP's warehouses
were closed in all regions except Dakar in March 1995. In June 1995 CPSP's retail marketing
facilities in Dakar will be closed. The Government has informed IDA that: (i) broken rice
transport subsidies have been eliminated; (ii) retail margins have been liberalized; and (iii)
administered wholesale prices for imported broken rice have been eliminated. Phasing out
CPSP's role in the import and distribution of broken rice will be a condition for the release of the
Second Tranche. Specifically, a condition of Second Tranche release is that all of CPSP's
warehouses have been closed (including Dakar). Through the Government's elimination of: (i)
any CPSP involvement in the imports and distribution of broken rice; and (ii) prior authorizations
for private sector imports of rice, the rice subsector will be fully liberalized. Consequently, the
full liberalization of broken rice imports is a condition for Second Tranche release. A protocol
and a contract-plan would be concluded between Government and CPSP redefining the latter's
new role. To this end, the Government commissioned a study (completed in December 1994) to
determine CPSP's future role. The study recommended that CPSP's activities be limited to
monitoring the rice subsector, importing broken rice only in case of emergency, and managing a
security stock. To perform this task, the study recommended a staff of no more than 12 as
compared to CPSP's current staff in excess of 700. The Government informed IDA in January
1995 that it accepts the recommendations of the study.
46.   The Government has already abandoned administered prices for local paddy and local rice
production will be protected by a normal import levy of 16%. To safeguard domestic paddy
producers from any collapse in the international price, especially at the critical local paddy
harvesting seasons, the Government proposes a surtax on imported broken rice, the level of which
will be determined in November of each year and adjusted in May only if necessary. The normal
tax and the surtax will at no time exceed a cumulative 46% of the average Dakar cif price over the
two months preceding November or May. Annex III describes the proposed rice import levy in
greater detail. As can be seen from this Annex, at current international prices, the total tariff
would be 21%, and would reach 46% only when there is an extraordinary collapse in international
prices. In addition, SAED will retain its role in maintenance and rehabilitation of major irrigation
infrastructure, and in extension and technical assistance to the producers, and SAED's operating
costs will be directly financed from the Government budget. A condition for Second Tranche
release is the implementation of an import levy imposed on broken rice set at no more than a
cumulative 46% of the average Dakar cif price over the relevant preceding two months.



16
The Groundnut Subsector
47.   Current Situation and Government Policies.  The Government tightly controls oilseed
groundnut production from seed production and distribution, primary collection and transport of
groundnuts, to the processing into edible oils. The main actors in the subsector are the 80%
publicly-owned9 SONACOS involved in oil processing and the 99% SONACOS-owned
subsidiary SONAGRAINES involved in seed distribution and primary collection. Producer prices
are set by the Government and export of groundnut oil is a monopoly of SONACOS. Export of
unprocessed groundnuts is formally prohibited. Until September 1994, imports of all vegetable
oils by establishments other than SONACOS required prior authorization which, except for palm
oil, was rarely granted.
48.   The sector is currently confronted with a host of problems the most notable of which are:
(i) marked variations in the levels of production linked with the agro-climatic situation and
dramatically declining shares of produced groundnut oilseeds purchased by SONACOS10; (ii)
declining yields per hectare linked to declining soil fertility, seed quality and the conditions for
seed distribution; (iii) the over-capacity of the groundnut oil processing units (approximately
920,000 tons of milling capacity contrasted with average annual collection of 260,000 tons), and
exceedingly high fixed costs of SONACOS; (iv) the reality of a parallel market in groundnuts
(including "illegal" exports through the Gambia, direct consumption by producers and artisanal oil
processing); (v) the absence of domestic producer price flexibility and its de-linking from world
market prices; and (vi) sizable deficits in the groundnut oil processing subsector which were
covered by SONACOS's margins on imported vegetable oils.
49.   Proposed Policy Changes. Actions under the AG-SECAL in the groundnut sector are
centered on one major structural measure: breaking the monopoly of SONACOS and its sale
to the public. Attempts in SALs II and IV to introduce more transparency and accountability
into the affairs of the two public enterprises, SONACOS and SONAGRAINES, were largely
unsuccessful and a structural solution in the form of transfer to the private sector is needed.
To this end, the Government has declared its intention in the LAPD to privatize SONACOS and
SONAGRAINES and liberalize the marketing of groundnuts. The first phase of a study, financed
by USAID and undertaken by Price Waterhouse, was delivered to the Government in May 1994.
It found SONACOS privatizeable, particularly after the CFAF parity change.  Its main
recommendation was to split the enterprise in two parts, which has the advantage of not replacing
a public monopoly with a private one. The study also recommends several reforms in the edible
oils sub-sector as part of the privatization process. These recommendations have been accepted
by Government.
50.   To privatize SONACOS, the study makes three recommendations.  First, that (i)
negotiations on the status of employees released from units in Dakar, Diourbel and headquarters
9   Private investors hold the remaining shares among which the most important are Lesieur Afrique (7.14%), SODEC
(5.71%), V. Q. Petersen (3.3 1%), and the Compagnie Senegalaise d'Arachide de Bouche (2.15%).
10 Of 679,000 tons produced in 1990/91, SONACOS purchases amounted to 260,000 tons. Comparable figures for 1991/92
and 1992/93 are 700,000 tons produced, 360,000 tons purchased and 550,000 tons produced, 160,000 tons purchased.



17
should continue; (ii) layoffs should be completed before the end of the privatization transaction;
and (iii) the Government should meet with employees and managers to explain and discuss the
privatization process. Such a meeting would reinforce the commitment to the privatization in
front of a possibly hostile audience. Second, that claims resulting from the 1992 explosion at the
Dakar processing plant should be resolved or the Government should indemnify the new owners
from any damage awards or insurance claims arising from this incident. Third, that the obligations
of buyer and seller should be clearly defined before the sale takes place. The study recommends
that the new ownership structure should have access to significant financial resources, particularly
credit facilities to purchase groundnuts. The "strategic investors" could include intemational
operators with significant industry and market experience, particularly in the European Union. To
prevent the sale of a privatized SONACOS to investors who lack the technical, marketing and
managerial skills necessary to operate it successfully, the Government may place restrictions on
the re-sale of shares.
51.   In order to eliminate the monopoly of SONACOS and introduce competition in the sector,
SONACOS will be split into two viable entities. In the LADP, the Government proposes to issue
invitations to tender (appel d'offres) by September 1995 and has already transferred the
privatization file to the Privatization Commission. The Government amended the Law on
Privatization (Loi 87-23) in December 1994 to formally declare SONACOS privatizeable. The
amendment of the law required an open debate in the National Assembly during which the
Government reaffirmed its ownership of the reforms embodied in the LADP and, in particular, its
determination to oversee an irreversible privatization of SONACOS. In January 1995, barely a
month after the amendment of the Law on Privatization, the Government started the third and
final phase of the privatization study. The main purpose of this phase is to prepare the dossiers
for the invitation to tender and identify potential investors. The bringing of SONACOS to the
point of sale is a condition of Second Tranche release.  Specifically. this means that the
Government has  (i) carried out a valuation of the enterprise and prepared a prospectus or
information memorandum for the enterprise: (ii) solicited, either directly or through
advertisement(s) in appropriate newspa-pers. offers from the private sector for the sale of all the
SONACOS shares held by the Borrower and other public sector entities: (iii) evaluated any offers
received: (iv) selected a successful bidder(s) in accordance with procedures for award consistent
with the LADP: and (v) invited the successful bidder(s) to enter into negotiations.
52.   To ensure that the privatization of SONACOS will take place in the best possible
circumstances, the Government is aware of the need to: (i) market the company as a well-run and
managed going concern and (ii) ensure the active collaboration of SONACOS's management in
the tasks required to bring SONACOS to the point of sale. These include the following: (i)
preparation of bidding documents and evaluation criteria; (ii) preparation and distribution of a
company prospectus; (iii) extensive contacts with potential investors in Senegal and abroad; (iv)
planning and implementing an international and domestic marketing campaign; and (v) assisting
the Government of Senegal in doing due-diligence reviewing, ranking bids, and negotiating final
terms and legal documentation. To this end, the Government has appointed a transitional
administration to manage SONACOS and to assist in its privatization.



18
53.   Two important steps have already been taken by Government to liberalize the marketing
of groundnuts. First, SONACOS has publicly announced its willingness to purchase groundnuts
at the factory gate at an appropriate factory-gate price. Second, the Government has liberalized
the importation (in September 1994) and price (in January 1995) of vegetable oil thereby ending
the prior authorization for vegetable oil imports and liberalizing vegetable oil prices.
54.   Determination of oilseed groundnuts producer floor prices.  The announcement of
producer floor prices prior to the planting season provides groundnut farmers helpful information
on which to base production decisions. To this end, the Government has initiated a study to: (i)
analyze in detail the past evolution of and prospects for international groundnut oil prices, (ii)
make projections on domestic groundnut production taking into account the planned reforms in
the sector, and (iii) propose a scheme and a formula for determining floor prices. The terms of
reference for the study specify that the scheme should: (i) be entirely managed and financed by
industry, (ii) be voluntary, and (iii) require only infrequent interventions to support the floor price.
The Government has undertaken to abide by these three principles.
55.   Actual prices will be announced weekly by the groundnut oil producer(s) and will be based
on spot prices. Thus, the Government will no longer have a direct role in the determination of
groundnut producer prices. Annex III provides the rationale for determining floor prices for
groundnuts, a detailed description of the objectives of the proposed groundnut floor price
support scheme. The Groundnut Price Stabilization Fund (FGPA) will be restructured and
transformed into a Floor Price Support Fund which will be an industry-managed scheme
(managed by the Comite national inter-professionnel de l'arachide) to support announced floor
prices. Part of the STABEX funds of the European Union would be directly channeled to the
floor price support fund. The fund would also be funded by contributions form oil millers. Once
the fund reaches its maximum level of CFAF 6 billion, all contributions would cease. It is
expected that the floor prices will be sufficiently low that FGPA support will be necessary only in
very exceptional cases.
56.   Under the AG-SECAL further competition will be introduced into the groundnut market
by permitting the unrestricted export of unprocessed oilseed groundnuts, for which there is an
active export market. In view of the current sizable excess capacity which exists in the groundnut
oil industry, however, the timing of the liberalization of exports will await discussion with the new
private sector owners of SONACOS. The Government, in its LADP, also intends to liberalize the
confectionery groundnuts sector. Confectionery groundnut activities will be the sole province of
private firms, with government actions limited to creating new seed varieties, encouraging
expansion of production and creation of a "Groundnuts from Senegal" label. The Government
has identified four regional production zones--Bassin Arachidier, Kolda, Tambacounda, Vallee du
Fleuve Senegal--and within these zones, private firms will be free to operate subject to industry-
established quality standards for confectionery groundnuts.
The Cotton Subsector
57.   Current Situation and Policies. Cotton is the second largest agricultural export crop after
groundnuts. Compared to other countries in the sub-region (such as Mali and Burkina Faso),



19
cotton production was introduced much later (late 1960s), and is relatively undeveloped (average
annual production of seedcotton of around 50,000 tons). There is, however, significant potential
for increasing production especially in the South East.  The slow development of cotton
production in Senegal and the significant increase in output during the last three years (at a time
of depressed groundnut prices) is testimony to the fact that cotton competes with groundnut
production as an altemative source of cash incomeI1. The cotton subsector is dominated by
SODEFITEX, the ginning parastatal (75% Government-owned, and 25% CFDT-owned -- the
French cotton development company), which is also a de facto fiber export monopoly. Until now,
the private sector has not shown any desire to enter into cotton ginning and fiber marketing
despite the fact that there are no legal barriers to entry.
58.   Like other countries in the sub-region, Senegal's cotton has been in a difficult financial
situation, especially from 1990 up to the recent devaluation of the CFA franc, due to the
precipitous drop in the world market prices for cotton fiber and the overvaluation of the CFA
franc. But even prior to the collapse of international fiber prices, surplus years were rare for the
subsector. SODEFITEX recorded substantial deficits from 1984 through the 1989/90 cotton
campaign despite the fact that fiber prices were particularly high during this period (CFAF 525/kg
in 1989/90, for example). The result was that before the onset of the cotton crisis in 1990/91,
SODEFITEX had an accumulated deficit of over CFAF 9 billion. The reasons were varied: high
costs of production partly explained by producer prices delinked from international prices; a broad
rural development mandate assigned to SODEFITEX which required the company to play a
public service role not directly related to cotton production; and the failure of Government and
CPSP to meet their commitments for compensatory transfers to SODEFITEX.
59.   On-Going Reforms.  The quasi-permanent financial crisis in SODEFITEX led the
Government to put in place an emergency adjustment program (lettre de mission) in 1987 with
assistance from the French aid agencies and, particularly, the Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement
(CFD). These reforms, supported by all donors but under CFD leadership, emphasized the
following: improvements in technical performance and internal (SODEFITEX) economy
measures; the linking of seedcotton prices to international fiber prices and the elimination of a
direct Government role in the setting seedcotton prices; the demarcation of SODEFITEX costs
between commercial activities and development (public service) activities in relation to financing
and distribution of benefits; greater management autonomy relative to the state; and greater
involvement of producer organizations in the management of all activities related to the subsector.
Currently, producer organizations are well represented on the committee responsible for
determining producer prices. A third lettre de mission covering a four-year period was signed on
March 16, 1992 which provides the framework for AG-SECAL reforms (Annex III).
60.   The devaluation ended the severe deficits of this sector. However, further cost cuts will
be sought to enable SODEFITEX to maintain its international competitiveness. These will
include further staff reductions, completion of the transfer of the SODEFITEX headquarters to
the production zone, a program for refinancing or writing off SODEFITEX liabilities, and further
reduction of production costs. These costs have already been reduced from 757 CFAF/kg in
11 With the exception of the last three years, groundnut prices have, historically, been set artificially high.



20
1986 to 449 CFAF/kg in 199312 under the Third Lettre de Mission. Prices paid to farmers are
linked to prices obtained for ginned cotton on domestic and export markets and the Government
no longer has a direct role in setting producer prices for seedcotton. The producer price13 is
announced at the beginning of the cotton campaign and a fully (donor- and industry-) funded and
tightly controlled floor price support fund provides a buffer between the farmer and the external
market.
61.    Proposed Reforms. The AG-SECAL will support the successful carrying out of the Third
Lettre de Mission. In particular, concerning the third Lettre de Mission, the Government's strict
application of the provisions for the setting of cotton fiber prices for local textile industries will be
an important element in assessing the Government's performance in implementing its LADP.
Moreover, under the AG-SECAL, the Government will prepare a medium-term Action Plan for
further reforms in the sector. The Action Plan is expected to be finalized in time for the 1996/97
cotton campaign.
62.    The Action Plan, like its predecessor Lettres de Mission will continue with improvements
in technical performance and internal economy measures, and put even more emphasis on the
involvement of producer organizations in the management of the subsector. The producer
organizations will increasingly take over the major role in the primary collection, marketing, and
transport of seedcotton. Donors are, however, in agreement that it would be premature to
consider the privatization of SODEFITEX during the preparation of the Action Plan. However,
during the preparation of the action plan, the possibility of offering the capital of SODEFITEX for
sale to producer organizations and/or to private textile industrialists will be considered. The
implementation of the third Lettre de Mission in accordance with its terms, and the preparation of
a medium-term action plan for the cotton sector, acceptable to IDA. are conditions of the release
of the Second Tranche.
The Sugar Subsector
63.    Current Situation. A private company, CSS, enjoyed a monopoly of production, import,
distribution and various fiscal privileges in exchange for a commitment to develop an industry
capable of supplying the entire local market, under a long-term convention with Government
which runs to the year 2005 (see Annex III). SAL II recommended the review of existing special
"conventions" with 12 enterprises, including CSS and that review led to the preparation of an
operational and financial audit of CSS under SAL III. Imported sugar makes up the difference
between domestic production and consumption. Until August 199314, margins on this product,
which rose to 200 CFAF/kg before devaluation, were split, with 60% going to the Government
and 40% to CSS.
12  Due to the January 1994 CFAF devaluation (affecting imported inputs), and the increase in producer prices for
seedcotton, production costs increased by an estimated 40% in 1994
13  The "producer price" in cotton is composed of two parts: the floor price and a rebate (ristourne) based on the results of
the previous year's campaign. This is feasible as the cotton sector is vertically integrated and there is only one company
(SODEF1TEX) involved in ginning and the commercialization of cotton fiber.
14  August 1993 coincided with the launching of the (Sakho-Loum) "Plan dUrgence", when the Government, in agreement
with the CSS, decided to retain 100% of the import margin to make up for significant budgetary shortfalls.



21
64.   Proposed Reforms. CSS is now a technically efficient operation providing an "economic
growth pole" in the Senegal River Valley. However, the CSS convention has overprotected the
enterprise with the result that the domestic consumer price is still more than twice the world price
of sugar. In the LADP, the Government proposes to liberalize the sugar subsector by eliminating
all barriers to entry in the: (i) cultivation of sugar cane for the purpose of producing sugar, (ii)
sugar processing and refining, (iii) imports of sugar, and (iv) marketing of sugar.
65.          To these ends, the Government signed a new agreement with CSS in January
1995. This new agreement: (i) eliminates all monopoly privileges on sugar cane production,
sugar imports, sugar processing and refining, and sugar distribution; (ii) eliminates prior
authorizations for imports and replaces them with tariff protection as described in Annex III; (iii)
eliminates all special fiscal and tax benefits15 accorded to CSS and changes the latter's status to
that of a common law enterprise; and (iv) fully liberalizes prices and margins in the sugar market.
As a result of the new agreement, it is expected that consumer prices will, at most, be the same in
nominal terms in 1995 as in 1994 and will decline nominally by about 4% from 1995 to 1999.
Tariff production accorded to CSS in this new agreement expires in five years and was provided
to CSS to enable it to adjust to the elimination of its monopolistic situation. IDA expects that
after this transitional period, these special measures of protection would no longer be necessary
due to: (i) the new investment being undertaken by CSS to further reduce its costs of production;
and (ii) the expected removal of subsidies on sugar production in Europe and the U.S. In real
terms, the decline will be much larger, depending on the rate of inflation in Senegal. The
liberalization of the sugar sector is an important part of the program and the continued adherence
to policy reforms in the sector will be a critical consideration in assessing progress in
implementing the LADP in connection with the release of the Second Tranche.
The Fruits and Vegetables Subsectors
66.   Current Situation. The fruit and vegetable subsectors of Senegal have high potential and
increased exports of high value added crops would help orient the entire economy towards an
export promotion stance. The devaluation has increased the financial profitability of production.
However, because the sub-sectors are relatively small, further analysis is needed to better
understand their export potential (see Annex III).
67.   Current Government Policies.  Government's determination to leave these subsectors
strictly to private initiative and not to interfere in the pricing, import, and marketing of products
was adhered to except for three products characterized as "produits de grande consommation" --
potatoes, onions, and bananas. Until recently, imports of these products were controlled (with
prior authorizations) during six months from October through April when there is sufficient
domestic production to meet demand. The rationale for these measures was to avoid domestic
prices from being depressed through "dumping" by exporters outside of the West African
Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU).
15  The only exception is that for the next two years (1995-96) the reinvested profits of CSS are 100% tax exempt as opposed
to the 50% provided for in the investment code.



22
68.   During discussions preparing the AG-SECAL, the Government proposed to eliminate
these prior authorizations and rely on protective tariffs (not to exceed 30%) on imports of
potatoes, onions, and bananas originating from zones outside of the WAEMU. These actions have
already been completed. Prior authorizations on potatoes and onions were removed in December
1994 (Decree 94-1426) and those on bananas were removed in January 1995 (Decree 94-1426).
Input Policy.
69.   Past Reforms.  SAL I called for a reduction in input subsidies for all inputs except
fertilizers, and testing input supply through village cooperatives. Fertilizer subsidies were limited
under SAL II, and were phased out except for cotton under SAL III. Subsidies for cotton inputs
were meant to be phased out with a slight delay, but this program of subsidy reductions was
halted by Government in 1989. Import controls on compound fertilizers were phased out in
1989/90. Under SAL II, the public enterprise, SONAR, established in 1980 to handle input
supplies, was liquidated. Chemical fertilizer use fell by 75 percent over the five years after the
abolition of subsidies, which coincided with a decline in cash crop prices and the initiation of
stricter credit recovery practices for input credits.
70.   Proposed Reforms.  Reduced fertilizer use is contributing to declining soil fertility
especially in the groundnut basin. It is expected that the Government's withdrawal from input
supply and complete liberalization of the sector will promote greater competition and reduce
prices. Moreover, in the past, full liberalization of input markets has been constrained by limited
access to credit. Therefore, complete privatization of the rural credit system is necessary and
parastatals, such as SONAGRAINE (which is, in any case, to be privatized or liquidated), should
no longer serve as intermediaries between the producers and the banking system for input credit.
Furthermore, the Government proposes, in its LADP, to significantly reduce duties on imported
inputs (or raw materials and intermediate inputs for local manufacture). The Government granted
exemption from duties on imported agricultural inputs in August 1994. Elimination of all prior
authorizations (not required for health. phytosanitary or environmental protection) for the import
of agricultural inputs is a condition of Second Tranche release.
Land Tenure and Natural Resource Management
71.   Government policies in this area have four objectives: increasing local participation in
natural resource management, improving security of land right ownership, strengthening capacity
for managing natural resources and increasing agricultural production. The Government also
seeks to give local communities more control over their natural resources, including training
programs for rural councilors.
72.   SAL III called for a review of existing land tenure regulations with a view to adjusting
regulations to permit access to land by investors and establishing procedures to levy fees to cover
part of the capital costs of developing irrigated land. This review was not completed. There has
been little evolution in land tenure administration since the replacement of the French colonial
tenure model in 1964. There is a consensus that the present system has major flaws and areas of



23
ambiguity, and that the establishment of clear uncontested user rights, while very difficult, is a
potential source of illicit rents. Initiatives such as that of SAL III have foundered on inertia
fostered by the complexity of the system, the vested interests in maintaining its ambiguity, and the
lack of any clear focus of responsibility for making improvements.
73.   Proposed Actions. Under the AG-SECAL (financed through a PPF) a major study of land
tenure practices is being carried out. The aim of the study is to institutionalize a process of
improving land tenure practice by identifying measures which can be put into operation in the
short-term. Action research is being carried out by implementing pilot operations and evaluating
their results to identify further measures of general applicability. To underline the importance that
the Government attaches to sustainable natural resource management, a high level national
environmental council (Conseil National Superieur de l'Environnement et des Ressources
Naturelles or CONSERE) has been created. The environmental council is to elaborate a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) with the active participation of the population and with the
donor community, particularly USAID. IDA will support the Government's natural resource
management program as it evolves through operations such as the proposed Senegal Valley
Development Project (FY 97) and Agricultural Services and Professional Organizations Project
(FY 97).
Other Agricultural Reforms
74.   A three-year investment program was introduced in the mid-1980s under SAL II and III.
It proved to be an effective instrument for dialogue with Government and donors. This is
especially true of the agricultural sector. However, the process was interrupted in 1990 and has
only recently been revived as a result of the dialogue with the World Bank and the IMF in the
context of the PFP. The AG-SECAL supports the regular updating of this program, and further
intensification of the dialogue between Government and donors.
75.   Past SALs included a number of other actions which have not specifically been brought
into the program of the proposed AG-SECAL, either because action is already underway, or
because the analytical basis for further action is inadequate. A further consideration, based on the
experience of other adjustment operations, is the need to keep adjustment actions focused on a
manageable number of objectives.  The areas not specifically brought into the program of the
proposed AG-SECAL include rural savings and credit, institutional development (streamlining
and improving the interventions-- including research and extension-- of Government ministries in
the agricultural sector), and the livestock sector. Through the ongoing Agricultural Services
Project (Cr. 2108-SE) and Agricultural Research II Project (Cr. 2107-SE), support is being given
to both extension and research. SAL III supported actions in the livestock sector and further
measures concerning veterinary services are being proposed in the forthcoming Agricultural
Services and Professional Organizations Project. In addition, special efforts are underway to
make the extension and research services more beneficial to female farmers drawing on the
recommendations of a recently-completed sector study on Rural Women in the Sahel and Their
Access to Agricultural Extension (Report No: 13532 AFR). Annex IV outlines past reform
efforts and some of the current main policy issues in these areas.



24
B.   CREDIT FEATURES
76.   Credit Amount and Financing. It is proposed that IDA support this project with a credit
of US$45 million. These quick disbursing funds will represent about 21% of adjustment financing
and 18% of the external financing for the period 1995-96 (para. 13). The counterpart funds will
assist Government in carrying out reforms which are expected to have a budgetary impact in
excess of US$100 million. These costs include termination allowances of staff of parastatals to be
privatized or restructured and eliminating the accumulated debts of SODEFITEX, SONACOS,
CPSP, and SAED.
77.   The other donors would provide a mixture of fast-disbursing aid, using mechanisms similar
to those of the Bank group and financial restructuring funds tied to particular end uses. French
aid agencies have indicated a willingness to provide at least US$20 million, and would
concentrate in particular on funding the public service role of SAED. On the basis of the Lome
IV agreements, the European Union is expected to provide about US$30 million, with emphasis
on restructuring the rice and irrigation sectors. The Federal Republic of Germany, through the
KfW, may provide between US$6 million and US$12 million of support to reforms under the AG-
SECAL. Separately, USAID has already provided US$31 million in support of reforms in the
domestic and imported rice sector.
C.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CONDITIONALITY
78.   Joint donor missions in August 1994 and January 1995 reached agreement with
Government on a number of significant reform measures, many of which have already been
adopted during the preparation of the AG-SECAL. Specifically, the following measures have
already been implemented:
(a)   The Government has set up an interministerial committee to monitor the implementation
of the AG-SECAL (para. 35);
(b)   Government has prepared a three-year rolling investment program for the agricultural
sector which has been submitted to donors for review (para. 36).
(c)   Rice. The domestic marketing and pricing of rice have been completely liberalized at both
the producer and consumer levels. The Government-owned rice mill (URIC) has been
transferred to the private sector (para. 42). In addition, imports have been decontrolled,
subject to an import levy and prices have been liberalized de facto. Traders can buy
imported rice directly from CPSP warehouses and the port of Dakar. A study defining a



25
new role and establishing staffing needs of a CPSP without a role in rice importing and
marketing has been completed and the recommendations of the study accepted by
Government. CPSP's procurement practice of negotiating private contracts with
designated private operators for rice imports (marche gre a gre) has been terminated and
an open and competitive procurement system has been set up (para. 44). Broken rice
transport subsidies have been eliminated, retail margins have been liberalized and
administered wholesale prices for imported broken rice have been eliminated
(d)   Groundnuts. Significant cost-reduction measures have been implemented in the groundnut
sector, particularly in relation to the collection and delivery of groundnuts to factories.
These activities have largely been transferred to cooperatives and the private sector.
Preparatory studies have been undertaken on the restructuring of the groundnut subsector,
including the industrial activities, revision of the protocol between Government and oil
mills, and revision of the operation of the guarantee fund. The first two phases of a study
defining the conditions of privatization of SONACOS, undertaken by Price Waterhouse
with USAID financing, were completed in May 1994. These phases set out principles,
main steps and calendar to be followed in order to bring SONACOS to the point of sale
(para. 49).  The privatization dossier has been transmitted to the Privatization
Commission. The third and final phase of the SONACOS privatization study was begun in
January 1995 (para. 51). In addition, the Law on Privatization has been amended to
permit the privatization of SONACOS (para. 51). The Government has appointed a
transitional administration to manage SONACOS and to assist in its privatization (para.
52). SONACOS has publicly announced its willingness to purchase groundnuts at the
factory gate at an appropriate factory-gate price (para. 53) and, with assistance from the
European Union, Government is defining a mechanism through which producer prices for
groundnuts will be linked to world prices. In addition, all prior authorizations for the
import of vegetable oils have been terminated (para. 53);
(e)   Sugar. A new agreement was negotiated between Government and CSS in November
1994 and signed by both parties in January 1995 (para. 65).
(f)   Fruits and Vegetables. Government has proposed a mechanism, acceptable to IDA,
defining the modalities (other than through quantitative restrictions) for protecting the
domestic production of potatoes, onions and bananas (para. 68).
(g)   Government has also established action plans and timetables for the major adjustment
action, particularly the liberalization of rice imports, and the privatization of SONACOS.
These actions, as well as the overall agricultural development strategy, are reflected in the
Government's draft Letter of Agriculture Development Policy (Annex II) and the
proposed Action Plan annexed to it.
The policy matrix (Annex I) summarizes the main policy actions supported by the AG-SECAL.



26
Conditions for Tranche Release
79.   There will be a select number of key time-bound conditions for tranche release. All other
actions, including the implementation matrix, are incorporated in the Government's Letter of
Agricultural Development Policy and annexed Matrix of Measures, satisfactory implementation of
which will be a condition for any release of funds. A general condition of Board presentation and
tranche release will be that the macroeconomic framework remains consistent with the objectives
as defined in the PFP (para. 11), providing a safeguard in the event that a major economic decline
calls into question the rationale of the program.
Second Tranche Release conditions are as follows:
(1)   Rice : (i) full liberalization of the import of broken rice (para. 45); (ii)
implementation of an import levy imposed on broken rice set at no more than 46%
of the average Dakar c.i.f price over the relevant preceding two months (para.
46); and (iii) elimination of CPSP's role in the import and distribution of broken
rice, and the closure of all of CPSP's warehouses and marketing facilities (para.
45);
(2)   Groundnuts : bringing SONACOS to the point of sale, namely: (i) valuation of
the enterprise and preparation of a prospectus or information memorandum for the
enterprise; (ii) solicitation, directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate
newspapers, of offers from the private sector for the sale of all the SONACOS
shares held by the Borrower and other public sector entities; (iii) evaluation of any
offers received; (iv) selection of a successful bidder(s) in accordance with
procedures for award consistent with the LADP; and (v) invitation of the
successful bidder(s) to enter into negotiations (para. 51);
(3)   Agricultural Inputs : elimination of all prior authorizations (except to the extent
required for health, phytosanitary or environmental protection) for the import of
agricultural inputs (para. 70);
(4)   Investment Program : Government updating the three-year rolling investment
program for the agricultural sector which shall be transmitted to IDA (para. 36);
and
(5)   Cotton : implementation of the third Lettre de Mission between Government and
SODEFITEX in accordance with its terms, and the preparation of a medium term
action plan satisfactory to IDA and meeting the objectives set forth in the LADP
(para. 62).
Disbursement and Procurement
80.   The IDA adjustment component of US$45 million would be disbursed in two tranches.
The first (US$25 million) upon effectiveness, is expected to be released in June 1995. The second



27
is expected approximately 18 months later, providing that conditions of tranche release have been
met.
81.   The adjustment credit would finance 100 percent of the c.i.f costs of eligible goods
(excluding luxury consumer goods, defense items and goods intended for military use). On an
exceptional basis, to allow for timely disbursements, no limitation is placed on petrol or food
imports. Public and private sector imports would be eligible, except for:
(a)   a negative list;
(b)   imported goods already financed under bilateral or multilateral credits; and
(c)   contracts under US$5,000 equivalent.
82.   Procurement procedures are designed to allow rapid use of the project proceeds and
efficiency and accountability in the process. Under the adjustment credit, eligible imports by
public agencies exceeding US$3 million and those made by the private sector exceeding US$3
million will be subject to Simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Procurement by
public agencies for contracts below the threshold will follow standard Government practices that
have been acceptable in the past. Eligible general imports by the private sector, below the
threshold, will be procured in accordance with normal commercial practices. Whenever possible,
quotation from eligible suppliers from at least two countries will be sought. Single source
purchasing will only be permitted for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing
equipment requires standardization. All contracts above a threshold of US$10 million will be
subject to the Bank's standard prior review procedures.  Procurement documentation for
contracts over US$3 million for imports by public agencies and US$3 million for imports by the
private sector will be submitted together with withdrawal applications and other documents for
payment purposes. Documentation for contracts under this threshold will be maintained for ex-
post review by the Bank under the procedure for Statement of Expenditure (SOE) as explained in
para. 84. This documentation includes: (i) a brief description of procurement procedures; (ii) an
evaluation summary giving the number of bids received; (iii) a comparative statement of prices
received; (iv) dates of contracts and payments; (v) a copy of the contract; (vi) a copy of the
invoice; and (vii) any other documentation required by disbursements. A pre-shipment agency is
in place and operating satisfactorily. All imports will be subject to pre-shipment inspection.
83.   Disbursements. The adjustment credit will finance 100% of the cost imports. Public and
private sector imports will be eligible except for those included in the negative list agreed on
during negotiations and imported goods already financed under multi- or bi-lateral credits.
Disbursement categories, credit amount and the share of expenditures to be financed by IDA
would be as follows:



28
DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Category                       Amount of the            % of Total
Credit Allocated         Expenditures
(SDR Equivalent)
Goods                          28,650,000                100% of foreign expenditures
Refunding of the Project
Preparation Advance (PPF)        350,000                 100%
Total                          29,000,000
84.   The credit will be disbursed on the basis of fully documented applications for contracts in
excess of US$3 million for imports by public agencies as well as by the private sector or on the
basis of SOEs for expenditures below these amounts. The minimum amount of applications will
be US$500,000. The Borrower will indicate on the statements of expenditures the nature and
origin of the goods as well as the payment date, and will maintain all relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, import certificates and evidence of payment) for review by supervision
missions. In order to permit timely disbursements in the amount needed to keep the program on
track, an amount of US$8 million of the credit would be eligible for retroactive financing of
imports paid no earlier than February 15, 1995. The closing date for disbursements under this
credit is June 30, 1997.
Accounting and Auditing
85.   The Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning would maintain separate accounts related
to the sectoral adjustment credit. These accounts would be audited annually by independent
external auditors acceptable to IDA. The audits would: (i) verify that the conditions of the credit
agreement have been respected; (ii) determine whether the accounts have been prepared and
maintained in accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles and practices
acceptable to IDA; and (iii) determine whether records maintained by the Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Planning permit the identification of all receipts and payments under the sectoral
adjustment credit. A certified copy of the accounts together with the audit reports would be
submitted through the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning within six months after the
end of each fiscal year.



29
Impact of the Program on Vulnerable Groups.
86.   The impact of the 1994 devaluation of the CFAF combined with measures already
undertaken by the Government under this project has been positive for the agricultural sector.
For producers, the prices of groundnuts and cotton have been significantly increased which
should, in turn have a positive impact on the real income of farm families. The impact on the real
incomes of producers of coarse grains and rice has been more moderate: observed producer
prices for paddy and the coarse grains increased, on average, by less than 30%. The impact on
consumer prices, especially rice, was dampened immediately after the devaluation as the price
increase for imported broken rice was limited administratively. The prices of all categories of rice
are now liberalized but they have remained at about the same levels as the immediate post-
devaluation administered prices. They are expected to stabilize at about 5% above current levels.
87.   The increase in rice prices has had a negative impact on consumers and a switch from rice
towards traditional cereals has been observed in many parts of Senegal. Moreover, since January
1994, an increase in malnutrition has been documented in urban areas. Many of the policy
reforms supported by this project are expected to have a moderating impact on prices of
agricultural commodities and minimize the likelihood of disruptive market failure. Among such
measures, the following are expected to have the most far-reaching effects: (i) privatizing the
production, processing, and marketing of agricultural products with special emphasis on the
parastatals involved in the groundnuts and rice subsectors (SONACOS, CPSP and URIC) which,
in the past, have proven inefficient producers; (ii) liberalizing the domestic production,
distribution, and imports of sugar and putting in place a tariff structure which ensures declining
consumer prices in nominal terms; and (iii) eliminating all prior authorizations for trade in
agricultural commodities and inputs. Nevertheless, these measures will not be sufficient to
address the impact of the devaluation and this program on the most vulnerable groups, especially
in the urban areas. To ensure that population groups at risk of nutritional inadequacies are
identified and targeted interventions are put in place, IDA will support a Community Nutrition
Project (FY95) which will include a monitoring system to detect trends in malnutrition.
Environmental Aspects
88.   In conformity with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no environmental rating has
been assigned. Under the AG-SECAL the Government proposes to prepare and implement a
schema for and to adapt existing legislation to an integrated and participative natural resource
management. The preparation of the schema and the adaptation of existing legislation for natural
resource management are expected to be completed in December 1995.



30
Implementation Agency
89.   The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for project execution, and its
recently established Agricultural Policy Unit would be strengthened through support from other
donors (USAID in particular) and the proposed Agriculture Services and Professional
Organizations Project (FY97) in order to carry out the long-term perspective study and to
monitor and expedite project implementation. It will continue to work closely with the Ministry
of Economy, Finance and Planning. A working group has been established consisting of a
representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning and
the Presidency to act as a counterpart for supervision missions.
D.    CREDIT BENEFITS AND RISKS
90.   Many of the reforms included in the proposed program have long been on the agenda in
Senegal. While it is impossible to guarantee that what was not been done in the past will be done
this time, the Region's assessment is that the events of the part few months, the implementation of
measures long delayed and the recent appointment of a national unity Government make the
remaining risks well worth taking. First, compared to the past, the political context is different
and the Government's commitment to reform much stronger, as evidenced by many difficult
measures already taken by the Government. Among these, the most notable are the re-negotiation
of the sugar convention with the CSS; the introduction of private sector imports of broken rice
and the total liberalization of the domestic rice sector; the endorsement of the National Assembly
to privatize SONACOS and the significant steps already taken by the Government to that end,
including the appointment of a transitional administration to manage SONACOS and to assist in
its privatization. Second, the reform program to be supported by the credit is heavily front-loaded
and all Board presentation conditions have been met. As regards the risk of backtracking, three
developments have contributed to mitigate this risk. The first is the intense debate which took
place in Senegal in the fall of 1993 around the austerity measures proposed by the Government.
Public opinion has been educated on the costs of monopolies and there is political pressure from
below to end such practices. Second, the changes in prices resulting from the devaluation have
fundamentally altered Senegal's economic picture. However, doubts remain on the depth of
commitment of the civil servants to a program destined to curtail significantly their power and
authority. Third, the reform program has the endorsement of all the donors active in providing
assistance to Senegal's agricultural sector.  But the proposed reforms also have internal
constituencies: (i) they are supported within the administration by a new generation of forward
looking technicians; and (ii) they emanate from the private sector which is organizing itself to
obtain a policy environment more conductive to the development of its activities.



31
E.    RECOMMENDATION
91.   I am satisfied that the credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Richard H. Frank
President ad interim
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1995



SENEGAL: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMEN CREDIT (1994-971
pOLICY AGENDA MATIX
Policy Area                Policy Objectives               Actions Already Taken                    Actions to be Taken for Release of Second Tranche
1. Domestic marketing     Liberalize prices and marketing of   Satisfactory evidence that the prices and
and pricing policies       domestically produced agricultural   processing of paddy have been
products                        completely liberalized including:
*   abandonment of Government
administered paddy prices,
*   transfer of ownership and full
private operation of SAED mills,
*   end of CPSP operations in domestic
rice, and end to all subsidies.
*   the elinination of transport
subsidies and liberalization of retail
margins of broken rice; and
abandonment of administered
wholesale prices for broken rice
SONACOS publicly announcing its
willingness to purchase groundnuts at
the factory gate at an appropriate factory-
gate price.
Effective implementation of SONACOS's
announced program of purchasing
groundnuts at the factory gate at
appropriate factory-gate prices
2. Public Agricultural     Improve the efficiency of public  Government has prepared a three-year   Government updating the three-year rolling investment program for the
Investment Program        investment and public resource   rolling investment program for the       agricultural sector to be submitted to IDA (for its review).
management.                     agricultural sector and submitted it to
donors for review
O H



Policy Area               Policy Objectives                Actions Already Taken                    Actions to be Taken for Release of Second Tranche
3. Trade Policies         Promote efficient import         Termination of CPSP's practice of        Full liberalization of imported rice markets through:
substitution by replacing       negotiating procurement contracts with
quantitative restrictions with  designated private operators for the     *   full liberalization of the import of broken rice;
protective tariffs              imports of rice (marche gre ai gre) and  *   implementation of an import levy imposed on broken rice which
the establishment of an open and             will, at no time, exceed a cumulative 46% of the average Dakar cif
competitive procurement system,              price over the proceeding two months.
acceptable to IDA.
Abandonment of GOS administered
consumer prices of imported rice.
Definition of a system and level of tariff
protection for imported broken and
whole rice                                                                                          Li
Elimination of prior authorizations for
vegetable oil imports
Elimination of prior authorizations for
the imports of potatoes, onions and
bananas originating from zones outside
WAEMU and their replacement with
protective tariffs which will not exceed
30% of the cif Dakar prices
Elimination of all prior authorizations (except to the extent required for
health, phytosanitary or environmental protections) for the import of
agricultural inputs.
00
1.-h



Polcy Area                 Policy Objectives                Actions Already Taken                      Actions to be Taken for the Release of the Second Tranche
4. Agricultural Parastatals.   Disengage the state from                                                Elimination of CPSP's role in the import and distribution of broken rice,
commercial activities and promote                                           and the closure of all of CPSP's wharehouses and marketing facilities.
role of the private sector
Initiate an irreversible privatization   (i) Adoption of conclusions and    The bringing of SONACOS to the point of sale. Specifically, this means
process of SONACOS, through:     recommendations of the phase II study on   that the Government has : (i) carried out a valuation of the enterprise
the privatization of SONACOS,             and prepared a prospectus or information memorandum for the
enterprise; (ii) solicited, directly or through advertisement(s) in
(ii) Referral of the SONACOS file to the  appropriate newspapers, offers from the private sector for the sale of all
National Privatization Commission,        the shares held by the Borrower and other public sector entities; (iii)
evaluated any offers received; (iv) selected a successful bidder(s) in
(iii) Finalization of the main steps and  accordance with its procedures for award; and (v) invited the successful
calendar (acceptable to IDA) to be        bidder(s) to enter into good faith negotiations.
followed in order to bring SONACOS to
the point of sale,
(iv) Amendment of the law to permit the                                                                 >
privatization of SONACOS, and
(v) Starting of phase m of the SONACOS
privatization study to prepare the dossiers
needed for the invitation to tender.
(vi) The appointment of a transitional
administration to manage SONACOS and
to assist in its privatization.
The implementation of the third Lettre de Mission between Government
and SODEFiTEX in accordance with its terms, and the preparation of a
medium-term action plan, satisfactory to IDA and meeting the objectives
set forth in the program.
P0



35               Annex II
(Page 1 of 39)
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTORAL
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(ASAP)
LETTER OF AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(LADP)
APRIL 1995



36                                   Annex II
(Page 2 of 39)
INTRODUCTION
The Government of Senegal has prepared the present Letter of Agricultural Sector Development
Policy (LADP) to define the main lines of its medium- and long-term agricultural development policy,
consistent with the macroeconomic development strategy implemented in the new setting created by
the change in the parity of the CFA franc in January 1994. To execute this policy it needs the assistance
of the World Bank.
The macroeconomic objectives adopted in the 1994-97 medium-term economic and financial policy
framework paper cover, in particular:
-     achievement of a positive growth rate in 1994 and an annual rate of about 4.5-5.0 percent from
1995 onward, with a consequent 2-percent annual increase in per capita income which will be
reflected in, in particular, an improvement in the living conditions of the most disadvantaged
population groups;
-     from 1996 onward, restoration of the inflation rate (defined in GDP deflator terms) to its low
level of 2-3 percent of the preceding years, following an inevitable rise, related to devaluation,
projected at 35 percent in 1994 and 8 percent in 1995;
-     limitation of the external current account deficit (excluding grants) to 9.8 percent of GDP in
1994, followed by a phased reduction to 6.8 percent in 1997;
-     reduction of the overall budget deficit from the equivalent of 3.9 percent of GDP in 1993 to 1.7
percent in 1996, followed by a situation of equilibrium in 1997 and surpluses thereafter;
-     measures to promote human resource development and benefit the most disadvantaged
population groups.
Achievement of these broad objectives is based on more far-reaching liberalization in all sectors of the
economy, continued withdrawal by government, rationalizing of public expenditure, and
implementation of an investment policy in line with the foregoing guidelines.



37                                  Annex II
(Page 3 of 39)
L PLACE OF AGRICULTURE IN THE SENEGALESE ECONOMY
The agriculture sector (farming, livestock, forest products) employs 60 percent of the population and is
consolidating its place as one of the main driving forces of the Senegalese economy in terms of income,
budget and trade balance. For the past two decades, however, the sector has been in a state of crisis.
Under the combined effect of a number of factors, agricultural production growth has been unable to
outstrip population growth.
Over the 10-year period 1981-91 agriculture's growth in volume terms averaged 2.7 percent, more or
less the same as that of the population.
The shortcomings of agricultural policy and lack of competitiveness of the sector, combined with the
fall in basic commnodity prices on the world market, helped to lower rural real incomes and generated
trade balance and public finances deficits.
The present LADP represents a framework for laying down new guidelines and objectives designed to
coffect the disfunctionings noted in previous policies, seize the opportunities offered by the change in
parity of the CFA franc and inject growth dynamism into the agricultural sector.
IL AGRICULTURAL SECTOR OBJECTIVES
The major objectives for the agricultural sector, taking into account the macroeconomic setting, are as
folows:
sustained agricultural growth of 4 percent a year;
improved food security;
growth of rural income and creation of jobs.
These objectives will be pursued within a framework of better management of natural resources (soil,
water, forests) and efficiency in public expenditure.
In pursuit of these objectives and with a view to making agriculture more productive and more
competitive, the Government undertakes to:
(i)    deregulate prices and domestic and extemal marketing of agricultural products and inputs;
(ii)   withdraw in favor of the private sector from all commercial activities in order to devote itself to
public service functions such as policy formulation, agricultural research, extension, monitoring
and evaluation, policing functions and natural disaster management;
(iii)   draw up and install a legislative framework that provides land-tenure security for agricultural
operations;



38                                 Annex II
(Page 4 of 39)
(iv)   promote an incentive structure favorable to private investment;
(v)   ensure the implementation and monitoring of agricultural investment and operating expenditure
programs compatible with the available budget resources.
111m IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 1994-97 ASAP
The package of measures and the implementation timetable are detailed in the matrix appended to this
LADP.
To execute this program, the Government intends to implement the following policies over the period
1994-97.
3.1    Domestic Trade and Prices Policy
Since June 1994 the prices of agricultural products and inputs have no longer been administered (see
table below) except in the cases of oil groundnuts and groundnut seed. For these two products, the
producer price from 1995 onwards will be determined by economic agents involved in the subsectors,
in relation to world prices.
However, to protect the groundnut subsector in the event of a sharp fall in world prices, a study must
be made of the introduction of a minimum floor price and the establishment of a fund to support this
price. The guiding principles for this study are:
the autonomy of the fund, which will be managed by inter-occupational organizations;
replenishment of the fund basically from contributions from inter-occupational organizations.
As regards consumer prices, the Government has already deregulated those of vegetable oils, rice and
sugar. The deregulation of sugar prices was achieved via the elimination of the CSS monopoly as part
of the agreement signed with that organization on November 30, 1994.
In the case of cereal flour, the deregulation of imports and prices will occur in November 1995 in
accordance with the termination of the agreement between the State and the millers on November 29,
1994.
3.2   External Trade Policy
The Government undertakes to discontinue all forms of quantitative restriction, in accordance with the
timetable given on page 6, by abolishing prior authorizations while at the same time setting up a system
of tariff protection of agricultural products and inputs to combat unfair competition on the domestic
market.



39                                  Annex II
(Page 5 of 39)
Quality control will be strengthened for plant health products in line with the stipulations of the
foodstuffs code, with a view to protecting the environment and public health.
The tariff protection system will conform to the international commitments entered into by the
Government, for example under GATT and UEMOA.
With the elimination of the prior authorization system, the system of protection to be implemented
permits:
for staple products (sugar, edible oils, tomato concentrate and cereal flour) a declining level of
taxation over time in order to harmonize it with that applied to the industrial sector, and to
conform to the system in effect within UEMOA to promote intra-regional trade.
for horticultural products in current consumption (onions, potatoes, bananas), the objective is a
level of protection that will stimulate national production and that of the subregion, in the
context of a regional market.
A protection surtax not exceeding 30% will be applied to these products.
In the case of broken rice, the surtax will take the form of a levy adjusted twice a year, as necessary.
However, given the social significance of broken rice, and the need to promote
competition among local producers, the levy will not exceed 30%. The system of protection will be
reviewed after 3 years to reflect productivity gains made by local producers.
The following tables summarize the timetables for price deregulation and the abolition of prior import
authorizations for all agricultural products and inputs.



40                                    Annex II
(Page 6 of 39)
PRICE DEREGULATION TIMETABLE
AND DOMESTIC MARKETING MARGINS
PRODUCER   WHOLESALE   RETAIL   CONSUMER                               MECHANISMS
PRODUCT          PRICE             PRICE          MARGIN           PRICES                  AND
REFERENCES
Whole and                       Feb 1990           Jan 1992      Jan 1992         Abolition of prior
intermediate                                                                      authorization scheme and
rice                                                                              price deregulation
Imported                        Mar 1995           Mar 1995      Mar 1995         Price deregulation
broken rice
Local rice     Jun 1994         Jun 1994           Jun 1994      Jun 1994         - Sale, URIC
- Withdrawal, CPSP
- Abolition of administered
Vegetable____                                                                       paddy prices            |
Vegetable                       Jan 1995           Jan 1995      Jan 1995         Deregulation, imports and
oils                                                                              prices
Wheat flour                                                      Nov 1995         Denunciation of Protocol of
Agreement,
Nov 1994; deregulation of
imports and prices, Nov
1995
Sugar                           Nov 1994           Nov 1994      Nov 1994         Renegotiation of
Agreement,
Nov 1994; deregulation of
imports and prices
Oil            April 1995                                                         Setting of producer price by
groundnuts                                                                        CNIA,
Apr 1995
Seed cotton    1993                                                               Setting of price by support
fund committee
Cotton         1995                                                               Price mechanism
fiber                                                                             detennined by negotiation
between SODEFITEX
and clients



41                                  Annex II
(Page 7 of 39)
ABOLMTON OF PRIOR AUTHORIZATIONS
Products              Calendar         | Observations
Fertilizer            June 30, 1994      Decree # 94669 of June
30, 1994
Jute bags             June 30, 1994      Decree # 94669
of June 30, 1994
Vegetable oils        October 1994       Decree # 941033 of
October 4, 1994
Sugar                 Renegotiation of    Decree # 9599 of Jan.
agreement,        30, 1995 approving
November 1994      Agreement
Onions, potatoes,     December 1994      Decree # 941426 of
bananas                                  December 26, 1994
Broken rice           February 1996
Whole rice            In effect          Decree # 92155 of
January 22, 1992
Intermediate rice     In effect          Decree # 92155 of
January 22, 1992
Flour                 November 1995      Renegotiation of
Protocol, Nov. 1994
Deregulation
Nov 1995 at latest
Polypropylene bags    September 1994     Decree # 941171 of
October 31, 1994
Table groundnuts                         Decree # 94668 of
June 30, 1994
Cereals                                  Decree # 94668 of
June 30, 1994
Oil groundnuts in                        Export conditions will be
husk                                     discussed with future
buyers and the CNIA



42                                 Annex II
(Page 8 of 39)
3.3   Withdrawal by Government and Abolition of Monopolies
The Government is withdrawing from the activities of production, processing and marketing of
agricultural products and inputs in favor of the private sector. At the same time, it undertakes to put
the necessary conditions in place to promote fair competition among the various economic participants.
In this connection:
(i)   the CPSP and SAED/URIC withdrew from the local rice sector on June 30, 1994;
(ii)  the CPSP will complete its withdrawal from the importation and distribution of broken rice by
February 1996 at the latest;
(iii) SONACOS no longer has a monopoly over the purchase of oil groundnut seed (cf Decree #
88943 of July 8, 1988);
(iv)   Following the abolition of prior import authorizations for vegetable oils in September 1994 and
the deregulation of consumer prices in January 1995, the market will be totally deregulated;
(v)   In the cases of sugar and wheat, renegotiation of the special agreements will be completed in
November 1994.
Attention is drawn to the adoption since July 1994 of a series of legislative measures governing
domestic and foreign trade aimed at enforcing observation of the practices of fair competition.
3.4   Public Pro2rams and Expenditures in the A2ricultural Sector
Withdrawal by the Government, which will henceforth devote itself to public service functions, means
that financing of the restructuring of these services and their recurrent charges needs to be better
assured, taking due account of the guidelines of the medium-term economic and financial policy
framework paper.
The restructured ISRA will receive loans to eliminate its liabilities, as per para. 9.4.1 of the action plan.
Operating expenditure budgets will promote a better balance between the wage bill and other recurrent
charges.
Financing priority will be accorded to ISRA for research, extension, training, policy formulation and
monitoring-evaluation functions and also those performed by the regional development companies such
as SAED, SODEFITEX and the new Casamance regional development company due to be set up.
The Government undertakes to prepare an investment program in line with the priorities of the Three-
Year Rolling Public Investment Program (PTIP) so as to facilitate the harmonization of financing by
donors and the Government respectively. This program will be updated annually and will be reviewed



43                                 Annex II
(Page 9 of 39)
by the World Bank and the Government in October each year, along with any other donor that
expresses a desire to that effect.
The program prepared in November 1994 in conjunction with the donor community covers:
rehabilitation of irrigated perimeters with a view to their transfer to producer groups and other
socio-occupational organizations;
rehabilitation and maintenance of rural infrastructures;
-     creation of new infrastructures designed to promote productive private investment (for
example, PDRG).
3.5   Partnership Between Government and Socio-Occuuational Ormanizations
(Or-fanisations Socio-Professionelles)
The various types of socio-occupational organizations wish to provide themselves with the necessary
skills to promote their own development.
In this connection, the Government undertakes to adopt appropriate measures to facilitate the
emergence of such organizations and their efficient operation, by:
simplifying the procedures for setting up such organizations;
furnishing technical support to improve their management capacities;
-     transferring development-related field missions in step with the emergence of socio-
occupational entities able to assume responsibility for them.
3.6   Land-Tenure Security and Managyement of Natural Resources
In order to improve the farmers' land-tenure security and ensure sustained management of natural
resources, the Government, with the help of the international community of donors, including the
World Bank, has undertaken a study concerning a land-tenure action plan. This plan has generated
recommendations, in conformity with the Law on Public Property (Loi sur la Domaine National), that
should facilitate access to land and land-tenure security in order to promote sustained management of
natural resources, including among others:
-     greater involvement of local communities in natural resource management;
-     clarification of the concept of working of the land;
-     promotion of private investment;
-     execution of a cadastral plan.



44                                 Annex II
(Page 10 of 39)
The implementation of the land-tenure action plan will incorporate among other features:
-     the preparation of agreed plans for the settlement and development of rural areas,
particularly in irrigation zones;
-     access to land for non-residents;
-     the creation of new pioneer or economic investment zones to allow all private
individuals access to land;
-     consolidation of usage rights via administrative titles of long duration. It is
recommended that workshops be organized at various levels (national and local) to
disseminate the recommendations of the plan.
To promote the sustained management of natural resources, the Government has set up a national
consultative framework known as the Higher National Council for the Environment and Natural
Resources (Conseil National Superieur de l'Environnement et des Ressources Naturelles - CONSERE)
which is responsible for preparing the National Plan for the Environment.
This work is being undertaken with the active involvement of the population and the donor community,
particularly USAID. When completed, the National Plan will constitute the frame of reference for the
integrated management of natural resources.
3.7.   Food Security
In addition to the measures designed to boost agricultural production, eliminate monopolies so as to
enhance market efficiency, and promote a moderate level of taxation on staple items, the Government
will take action in order to help the most disadvantaged groups cope with the crisis situations created
by natural disasters. To this end, the authorities intend to improve the coordination of warning systems
and the efficiency of the information system with respect to improvement of emergency management.
In this connection, the CPSP will be eliminated and replaced with a small management and surveillance
unit that will monitor the rice market.
3.8    Rural Credit
The proposed measures concerning the financing of agricultural activities are in compliance with the
general guidelines and objectives subscribed to by the Government in the medium-term economic and
financial Policy Framework Paper.
To meet the varied credit needs of the rural population, the Government will promote the privatization
and diversification of the credit system, together with its decentralization, through mutualistic
arrangements at the grassroots level which would have management autonomy.



45                                  Annex II
(Page 11 of 39)
For rural credit to be effective, it needs to enjoy a favorable operating environment, created through
measures to improve the legislative framework, set up a disaster fund, and provide land-tenure security
so that farmers can offer their land and means of production as loan guarantees.
The Government will at the same time take action to encourage saving.
3.9   Promotion of the Role of the Target Groups (Women, Young People. Small Farmers) in
the Develonment of Rural Production
In view of the importance of the target groups in rural life, the Government will promote their more
effective involvement in agricultural development through action to provide them with better access to
training, health, land ownership, credit and agricultural services.
To this end, the program of artisanal and semi-industrial processing of agricultural products will be
strengthened, as will the system of extension services specific to rural women.
The Government has already undertaken programs to assist target groups, such as the development of
short-cycle livestock, milk production and market gardening and the alleviation of domestic chores.
3.10 Redefinition of the Agriculture Ministry's Public Services Functions
Redefining government's role in the agricultural sector makes it possible to distinguish between the
public service functions normally assigned to government and the rural population support functions
that can be progressively transferred to socio-occupational organizations and private operators.
1.    Public service functions normally assigned to government:
-     formulating agricultural policies and strategies at the national level and passing them
down to the regional level;
-     agricultural research and extension operations, and basic training;
-     policing and supervision to ensure compliance with laws and regulations;
-     data gathering and dissemination (statistics);
-     action in the areas of major risk and natural disaster prevention and management.
2.    Rural support functions that can be progressively transferred to socio-occupational
organizations and private operators
rural outreach, leadership and organization;
technical assistance;



46                                  Annex IT
(Page 12 of 39)
-     technology diffusion;
These guidelines will be reflected in a program of restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture through:
-     division of functions;
reduction of the central structures (reductions in functions, agencies and staffs);
reallocation of services to the regional and local levels.
This restructuring will promote:
a budget resource allocation that enhances the efficiency of the regional and local
services;
effective assumption of responsibility by the socio-occupational organizations for the
functions transferred to them.
3.11   Re2ional Inte2ration Policv
Senegal intends to promote development of the regional agricultural produce markets through action
to upgrade the transportation and marketing infrastructures and strengthen cooperation in agricultural
research through the Conference of African Authorities on Research in Africa (Conference des
Responsables Africains de la Recherche en Afrique--CORAF) and the Special Program for Agricultural
Research in Africa (Programme Special pour la Recherche Agricole en Afrique--SPAAR).
To this end, Senegal has joined with 16 other countries in the framework of the Conference of
Ministers of Agriculture of the Western and Central African Countries (Conference des Ministres
d'Agriculture des Pays de l'Afrique de l'Ouest at du Centre) with a view to promoting intraregional
exchanges of views and strengthening the competitiveness of the region's agricultural products
IV. ANALYSIS OF OBJECTIVES BY SUBSECTOR
The program includes a series of measures to be taken in accordance with a precise timetable for each
agricultural subsector.
The main subsectoral activities may be summarized as follows:
Cereals
Deregulation of prices and domestic trade.
Withdrawal of the SAED and CPSP from local rice marketing and processing, and
progressive deregulation of broken rice imports.



47                                   Annex II
(Page 13 of 39)
Setting up a tariff protection scheme.
Groundnuts
Sale of SONACOS in line with the conclusions of phase 3 of the study on the
privatization of that agency which will define, among other criteria, those pertaining to:
a) the strategic attributes of the buyer: technical competence, financial capacity,
knowledge of the international vegetable oils market, etc;
b) continuation and development of the industrial activities of crushing and refining of
groundnut oil for a period of at least 5 years;
Deregulation of domestic groundnut-seed marketing.
lDeregulation of vegetable-oil importation and trading.
Cotton
- Consolidation of the restructuring measures already undertaken and deregulation of the
transfer price of fiber to local spinners.
Sugar
Abolition of prior authorizations and determination of a suitable level of protection.
Revision of the taxation and customs systems.
Horticulture
Promotion of domestic production (onions, potatoes, bananas).
Development and diversification of exports (beans, strawberries, melons, flowers).
Livestock
Privatization of veterinary medicine services and upgrading of marketing circuits by:
lifting administrative constraints;
preparing a program of action to revitalize and develop livestock production.



48                                     Annex II
(Page 14 of 39)
V.    ATTACHMENTS  11 11M and IV are an integral part of the LPDA.
Washington, D.C. April 21, 1995
For the Government of Senegal
(The original letter in French is signed)
Isl Robert Sagna
Minister of State
Minister of Agriculture



49                                     Annex II
(Page 15 of 39)
Attachment I
(Page 1 of 1)
RICE SUBSECTOR
Mechanism of Tariff Protection of Local Rice
Senegal has adopted the objective of promoting local rice production. To achieve this it is necessary
both to raise the subsector's productivity and to enhance its ability to compete with imported rice.
However, in order to reconcile producer and consumer interests, this protection rate needs to be
adjusted. This is why the protection system proposed below is to be applied for three years and will be
subject to revision with a view to its gradual reduction, which will encourage producers to improve
their production costs.
Proposed protection system
-     the protection rate will comprise the normal 16% duty plus a levy ranging between 0 and 30%,
which, cumulatively, may not exceed 46%. These rates are applicable to the reference price, as defined
below.
-     the c.i.f reference price will correspond to the average of weekly quotations for special Al-
quality broken rice in current CFA francs calculated on the basis of the last two months prior to
adjustment (September-October and April-May).
-     the tariff scale will be adjusted twice a year prior to each harvest (November-June)
Mechanism:
Reference Price (SP)       Normal Duty            Levy             Cumulative
SP > F 160/Kg                 16%                  0%                16%
SP >F 150- 160/Kg             16%                  5%                21%
SP > F 140 - 150/Kg           16%                 10%                26%
SP >F 130- 140/Kg             16%                 15%                31%
SP > F 120 - 130/Kg           16%                 20%                36%
SP <F 120/Kg                  16%                 30%                46%



50                                 Annex II
(Page 16 of 39)
Attachment II
(Page 1 of 2)
MECHANISM TO SUPPORT A MINIMUM PRODUCER PRICE FOR OIL
GROUNDNUTS
Principles to govem the establishment of an inter-occupational organization and mechanism to set a
minimum producer price for groundnuts.
The basic principles to govern the privatization of the groundnut subsector can be listed as follows:
1.    The establishment of a truly inter-occupational organization to respond to the concerns of the
various categories of operators within the subsector that will enable them to be directly involved in
defining and managing groundnut subsector policy.
2.    It is essential that it be possible for the operating rules for this new institution to be based on
nonral trading relations and to be related to the system of ordinary law rather than special treatment
schemes.
3.    The institution thus established must allow everyone to take optimum advantage of an open
and rigorous management of their activities by being directly involved in the operation of the subsector.
4.    The Government may help with the establishment of the inter-occupational organization
without necessarily being directly involved in it.
5.    Clarification of the current situation must be based on a very clearcut distinction between
operations relating to the groundnut subsector and those relating to the import of crude or refined
vegetable oils.
6.    The establishment of a mechanism to set a minimum producer price is, intended to guarantee
producers a certain revenue level, in the interests of maintaining the financial equilibrium of the
subsector, and as a result of the establishment of a price support fund.
7.    The support fund, which will serve as an inter-occupational tool, will help to support producer
revenue levels without any Government intervention.
8.     The mechanism to be introduced will totally replace the current Government price-setting
system.
9.    It is essential that the fund thus set up have sufficient autonomy and that, from the moment of
its creation, it be given a significant initial allocation to enable it to fMlly perform its role.
10.          The fund must, in its operations, seek to support itself from the fees paid directly by the
operators rather than from ad hoc levies on imports; any maintenance of excessive ad hoc levies on



51                                  Annex II
(Page 17 of 39)
Attachment II
(Page 2 of 2)
imports might either lead to the reduction or elimination of certain operators and thus hinder the
achievement of a balance among partners.
11.   The primaxy purpose of the support fund thus created will be to provide sufficient financial
reserves (established without Government intervention) to be able to guarantee the payment of a
minimum producer price at mill based on:
available reserves (initial amount for the first year or replenished amount for subsequent years);
production forecasts;
average world prices observed over a significant prior period;
a significant decline in these world prices;
prospects of transferring Stabex groundnuts.
Mechanism for setting a minimum producer price
The Government of Senegal has commissioned a general study on the groundnut subsector, which will
propose a mechanism for setting a minimum producer price among the vafious agents active in the
subsector.
This price, while guaranteeing the producer a minimum revenue, will also make it possible to achieve
an equilibrium in the subsector.
This minimum price will also be calculated in such a way that it reflects any significant falling trend in
world prices, so as to be able to manage such a situation on a long-term basis.



52                                  Annex II
(Page 18 of 39)
Attachment III
(Page 1 of 1)
SYSTEM OF TARIFF PROTECTION FOR HORTICULTURAL PRODUCTS
ONIONS. POTATOES AND BANANAS
Horticulture constitutes one of Senegal's main diversification crops and offers an opportunity to
improve its trade balance following devaluation.
It is important that all the necessary measures be taken to promote its development and its ability to
compete with similar imported products, particularly potatoes, onions and bananas.
Domestic production is available on the market from December to July. To protect it, a tariff
protection mechanism will be set up in the form of a compensatory duty as defined in the law on
measures to safeguard domestic production against illegal trade practices.
This duty is set at cumulative rate of 60 percent, taking into account the subsidies and drawbacks of
30% accorded to potatoes and onions originating in the European Union, and of 30% for non-
ECOWAS bananas.



AGRICULTURAL SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM - ACTION PLAN
Subsector        Objective                      Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
I. Local         1. 1 Increased production and  1.1.1 Liberalization of prices and of      June 1994       D94,668 of 6/30/94 liberalizing
cereals          improved food security         domestic and external trade                                cereal exports
(millet/sorghu
m/maize)                                        1.1.2 Protection of subsector:
* Devising of a system to fix a level of                   FAO will not now finance the study
protection against non-ECOWAS cereal                      that was condticted by an
imports (maize/millet/sorghum) and wheat                   interministerial committee. The
system is defined in L. 95.004 of
1/5/95 which amends import-export
. Completion of FAO study          December 94    duties
.  Application                     January 95
1.1.3 Preparation of a local cereals      December 94    Various related projects were
development program consistent with PASA                   submitted for evaluation within the
guidelines and within the PTIP framework                   P.I.S.A  framework
. Implementation                   Starting in 95
1.2 Promotion of consumption
1.2.1 Definition and application of       Starting         Vast program to promote the
incentives for artisanal and semi-industrial  September 94    processing and consumption of local
processing of local cereals                                cereals (FCCAA/ENDA)
0
lb 0
W



Subsector       Objective                    Action to be taken                                      Timetable       Comments
2. Local rice    2.1 Increased production and   2.1. I Liberalization of the subsector               June 94         Completed (cf Council of
improved food security                                                               June 94        Ministers, 6/7/94)
*   elimination of paddy price controls              June 94
*   elimination of transport subsidy                 June 94
*   liberalization of margins                        June 94
*   CPSP withdrawal from local rice purchasing and
distribution
2.1.2 Protection of local rice
*   Adoption of 46% maximum cumulative protection   November 95   Adoption of law and
for local rice against imported rice (see Annex 1)             publication of decree
2.2 Promotion of private                                                                            introducing application of
investment                                                                                          levies
2.2.1 Reorganization of SAED                                                                          n
*   Sale of SAED rice mills                          May 94         Completed: rice mills sold
*   Payment of government counterpart                May 94         to laid-off staff
*   Financial restructuring: settlement of liabilities  December 95   In progress
*   Preparation 5th SAED Mission letter              1995           In progress
2.2.2 Privatization of collection, processing and marketing
*   submission of applications for working capital   May 94         Request for financinig
from private rice mills                                         submitted to USAID and to
FCCAA. CNCAS is
currently financing the
ivorking capital fund of 15
private rice mills in the
______________________________________________  ____________ valley
0rui
C)    0 



Subsector        Objective                   Action to be taken                                        Timetable     Comments
3. Rice imports  3.1 Improved food security   3.1.1 Liberalization of import and distribution of whole-grain
and intermediate rice
*   Elimination of prior authorization requirement     January 92    Completed: Decree 92.155
(Decree 92-155 of January 22, 1992)
*   CPSP withdrawal from whole-grain and intermediate  January 92    Completed: Decree 92.155
rice imports
3.1.2 Flat rate levy on whole-grain and intermediate rice  January 92    Levy officially effected
imports
Evaluation and annual adjustment                January 95    Evaluation and adjustment
in progress
3.1.3 Liberalization of broken rice distribution
U,
*   Freedom of supply granted to port dealers and CPSP    1993       Coniplectd                   U'
warehouses
*   Passing on of entire transport subsidy in all regions    March 95  Completed along with
liberalization of margins
*   Liberalization of distribution margins in all regions    March 95  Completed (cf Decree 95-
292 of 3/15/95)
*   CPSP withdrawal from broken rice distribution, and    March 95
closing of warchouses in all regions except Dakar
NB:   Termination CPSP warehouse [contracts]
Downsizing
0      x



Subsector       Objective                   Action to be taken                                   Timetable      Comments
3. Rice         3.1 Improved food           3.1.4 Liberalization of broken rice imports
imports         security
*   Trial award to Senegalese private sector of a  May 94        Completed
quota of 60,000 tons of imported rice
*   Establishment of bidding procedures for broken  August 94    Completed
rice imports to replace sole-source contracts
*   Elimination of controlled wholesale pricing and  March 95    Completed: action taken
closing of Dakar warehouse                                  earlier than planned (cf
Decree 95-292 of 3/15/95
- closing of Dakar wholesale warehouse        February
96
3.1.5 Start of CPSP restructuring study, limiting its               Study began 8/10/94
functions to:                                        August 94
-      monitoring of the subsector;
-      contracting with the private sector for
the import of broken rice only and
exclusively in emergencies;
-      contracting with private sector for
buffer stock management for the
government's account (private stocks);
X N CD
CD
o0   9



Subsector    Objective    Action to be taken                                                     Timetable         Comments
3. Rice      3.1         3.1.6 Restructuring of CPSP
imports     Improved
food          1. Adoption of study findings                                         December 94       The steering committee
security                                                                                              adopted the study findings (cf
report of meeting on
12/28/94)
2. Creation of Unit for the Management and Surveillance of the Rice   In progress
Market (CGSMR), which calls for:
- drafting of the founding decree;                                     In progress
- creation of a supervisory committee made up of the President of the  In progress
Republic, the Prime Minister (Primature?), MEFP, MA, MCA, SAED
AND CGSMR;
- closing down of CPSP                                                 In progress
- financial audit of CPSP                                              May 95
3. Compensating CPSP staff                                            1995             In progress                         u.
4. Implementing market surveillance:                                  In progress
- international market;
- local market (stocks and prices)
5. Private sector buffer stock management (two formulae under study):  In progress     The two formulae referred to
- in the form of stocking tool?;                                                    here are currently under
- for the government's account with financial costs incurred being                  study
payable by government.
Study of ways of involving the private sector in the subsector will help
determine
the appropriate formula.
6. Emergency imports within the framework of the plan adopted can only  February 96
be justified in the event of natural disasters (drought, floods, plagues of
locusts, etc.) The rules for market surveillance should make it possible to
react quickly in case of diminishing stocks.
7. CPSP withdrawal from broken rice importation                       February 96(*)
*) This date may be brought forward if the compensation of personnel becomes effective.
t'.   - 



Subsector       Objective         Action to be taken                               Timetable       Comments
4. Groundnuts   4.1.1 Revitalize    4.1.1.1 Preparation of a program to revitalize  December 94    Draft program examined at MA coordination
4.1 Oil         production        groundnut production consistent with PASA                        meeting on 11/3/94
groundnuts                        guidelines and within the PTIP framework
. implementation                           January 95      Changes will have to be made in the program
4.1.2 Improve                                                                      prior to implementation
subsector's
competitiveness    4.1.2.1 Adoption of a mechanism for setting of  In progress     A general study of the subsector is in progress
minimum producer prices by the different actors in               with a view to establishing an autonomous
the subsector (General evaluation of the                         inter-occupational organization responsible for
subsector/Study by Government of Senegal-European                managing the subsector
Union)
4.1.2.2 Elimination of prior authorization       September 94    Completed: cf Decree 94-1003 of 11/4/94
requirement for vegetable oil imports                           liberalizing imports
4.1.2.3 Liberalization of oil consumer prices    January 95      Completed: Decree 9577 of 1/20/95
4.1.2.4 Setting up of an import tariff protection  January 95    Law 95-004 of 1/5/95 amending duties
system for raw and refined vegetable oils of non-
ECOWAS origin                                                                                                  n
4.2.1.5 Privatization of SONACOS                 June 93         Completed: cf minutes of meeting of steering
committee 5/12/93
- Adoption by the Government of the principle of
privatizing SONACOS
- Adoption of Phase 2 findings of the SONACOS   September 94    Law 95-05 of 1/5/95 authorizing the total
privatization study and transfer of the pertinent file to        privatization of SONACOS
the Privatization Committee
- Adoption of SONACOS privatization law          January 1995    Completed: cf minutes of meeting of steering
committee 11/11/94
- Start of Phase 3 of the study specifying procedures    April 1995  Phase 3 has started
for implementing privatization
- Start of preparation of bidding documents with start   April 1995
of phase 3 of study
-Issue of call for bids                          September 95    In progress
0 CD 0 



Subsector             Objective                              Action to be taken                         Timetable        Comments
4.2 Groundnut seed    4.2.1 Stabilization and securing of    4.2.1.1 Setting up of an inter-occupational  In progress
groundnut seed production             seed committee
4.2.1.2 Privatization of multiplication and  In progress
distribution of selected and certified seed
4.2.2 One-third replenishment of seed  4.2.2.1 Maintenance of government          1995-97
stock                                 management of basic seed production
4.2.3 Improvement of seed quality     4.2.3.1 Establishment of regulations        December 94      Completed: cf Law 94-81 of
concerning seed                                             12/23/94 establishing
regulations governing seed
4.3 Table             4.3.1 Increase table groundnut         4.3.1.1 Development of regional TG         In progress
groundnuts (TG)       production                             production poles (Groundnut Basin, Kolda,
Tambacounda, Senegal River Valley)
4.3.2 TG promotion on world markets    4.3.2.1 Creation of a "Senegal Groundnuts"   In progress                                 Q
label
4.3.2.2 Completion of subsector            June 94          Completed: Decree 94-668
liberalization                                              of 6/30/94 establishing
liberalization of TG exports
o   o



Subsector              Objective                   Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
5. Cotton              5.1 Increased production    5.1. 1 Liberalization of marketing of seed  Marketing      Completed.
colton, cotton fiber and seed within a     seison          Negotiations under way
commercially-based framework negotiated    1994/95         concerning local fiber
between SODEFITEX and its clients                          market
5.2 Improved                5.2.1 Review of the third lettre de mission in    November 95    Under examination by
competitiveness             order to prepare the action plan for the cotton            the lettre de mission
subsector                                                  monitoring committee
5.2.2 Rehabilitation and modernization of  November 94    Industrial investment
industrial units                                           project of the third
letter de mission
executed. The
complementary project
has been carried out       0
5.2.3 Reductions in:
*   labor force                         Completed
overhead                           In progress
- 0
OQ2 



Subsector             Ob.jective                  Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
5. Cotton             5.2 Improved                5.2.3 Establishment of a flexible pricing  Completed
competitiveness            system with inter-occupational decision on
minimum price
5.2.4 Upgrading of fiber quality          In progress
5.3 Financial equilibrium of   5.3.1 Refocusing of SODEFITEX' activities    Completed
the subsector              on development of the cotton subsector
5.3.2 Transfer of SODEFITEX headquarters    In progress
to Tarnbacounda
5.4 Improved producer      5.4.1 Grant from the internal support fund to    1994/95                             a0
incomes                    the subsector
5.4.2 Continuation of SODEFITEX' public   1994/95
service activities in support of rural
development in the cotton zone
-Ps



Subsector             Objective                   Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
6. Sugar              6.1 Improved                6.1.1 Renegotiation of the CSS/Govemment    November 94    Decree 95-99 of
competitiveness            contract, setting course of action and                     January 1995 approving
timetable for:                                           the renegotiated
agreement
eliminating prior authorization
requirement and establishing a
protection level
overhauling the tax and customs tariff
system
03
o



Subsector             Objective                    Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
7. Horticulture        7.1 Revitalization of       7.1.1. Identification and implementation of  In progress
horticultural production    horticultural development projects and
(vegetables, fruit, flowers,  programs consistent with PASA guidelines
ornamental plants)          and within the PTIP framework
7.1.2 Privatization of production, conservation   December 95
and marketing of vegetable seed
7.1.3 Creation of the MarchO d 'Inter&     December 95
National (MIN)
7.1.4 Promulgation of the law on measures for  November 94    Law 94-68 of 8/3/94 on   a
safeguarding domestic production against                   measures in mentioned
illegal commercial practices
7.1.5 Elimination of prior authorization   December 94    Completed: Law 95-
requirement and establishment of a system to               004 of 1/5/95 institutes
protect local horticultural products against               a protection surtax on
non-ECOWAS imports (Decree on prior                        horticultural products
authorization requirement)                                (Decree 94-1426 Of
12/26/94 liberalizing
the importation of
potatoes and onions)



Subsector               Objective                      Action to be taken                             Timetable        Comments
7. Horticulture          7.2 Export promotion          7.2.1 Standardization of horticultural products   In progress
and promotion of a "Senegal" quality label
7.2.2 Study to facilitate credit access for   September 94    Conditions governing
private exporters of horticultural products                     credit allocation have
been decided on
7.2.3 Overhaul of chartering system to reduce    January 95    Following negotiations
transport costs                                                with the air pool, a
quota has been set for
horticultural products
7.2.4 Improvement of transport by air freight    In progress
and promotion of sea freight
(D 0 C
, CD, 0



Subsector             Objective                   Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
8. Livestock          8.1 Improved health         8.1.1 Govemment withdrawal from veterinary   Completed
coverage                   care and privatization of veterinary medicine
8.1.2 Strengthening of the Govemment in   February 96
performance of its public service functions:
health inspection and monitoring, intervention
in outbreaks of epidemics
8.1.3 Distribution of costs of epidemic control  Completed
(vaccination costs distributed between the
Govemment and the stockraisers)
ON
8.1.4 ISRA vaccine production unit made   In progress
autonomous with a view to privatization
8.2 Livestock product      8.2.1 Preparation of a program for livestock  December 94    Draft program already
promotion and development   product revitalization and development, by                prepared by Direction
subsector, consistent with PASA guidelines                de l'Elevage.
and within the PTIP framework                             Document to be
reviewed in light of
comments made
0
a I0 g
tw



Subsector           Objective               Action to be taken                              Timetable      Comments
8. Livestock                                8.2.2 Improvement of marketing circuits:
.  .   upgrading of marketing circuits through  June 95
updating of existing regulations
.      organization of subsector actors        June 95
i  .   creation of an appropriate marketing credit  June 95
system
.      standardization of meat quality         December 95   With the devaluation of
the CFA franc in January     aa
1994, this measure is no     a
longer necessary
8.2.3 Setting of appropriate protection levels for  December 94
local livestock products against non-ECOWAS
imports
8.3 Export development   8.3.1 Remove administrative and tax constraints and  In progress
promote exports of livestock and livestock products
through updating of existing regulations
*      Decree concerning women occupied in the
livestock/meat subsectors
*      Decree on the Health Police
CD  CD 
4 St 
 1 0



Subsector                Objective                      Action to be takeni                             Timetable         Comments
9. Agricultural          9.1 Meet users' expectations    9.1. I Have users of research findings         In progress
research and extension                                  participate in the identification and conduct of
research activities under real conditions
9.1.2 Together with the partners, identify      In progress
research programs geared to major constraints
to agricultural development
9.2 Improved use of research   9.2.1 Strengthen links among research,          In progress
findings                       extension, vocational training, and
beneficiaries to create a true partnership
9.3 Develop regional           9.3.1 Participation in networking and           In progress                                     O
cooperation in the area of     specialization of regional research centers
research
9.4 Strengthen ISRA's          9.4.1 Status of ISRA
operating capacities
*      Conversion of ISRA into a scientific    June 95
ppublic establishment
9.4.2 Financing of research
*    Increase ISRA's regular allocation     January 95        ISRA is negotiating
under the government budget                              another form of
management of the
*    Settle ISRA's liabilities               1994-96          Institute with a view to
securing stable funds
1 0i
Wt



Subsector        Objective                   Action to be taken                                 Timetable        Comments
10. Rural credit   10.1 Credit appropriate to  10. 1.1 Diversification and setting up of localized and   In progress
the needs of the rural     accessible financial institutions
population
*   Conclude CNCAS privatization and
government divestiture
*   Promote the emergence of mutualist
institutions linked to the banking system
*   Set up mutualist institutions within the
UMOA's special legal framework
10.2 Viable and secured    10.2.1 Creation of conditions conducive to regular  In progress
credit                     repayment. Application of measures to improve
productivity and marketing circuits (see agricultural                                           a%
subsectors)
*   Improve legal framework to strengthen the   In progress
collateral system
*   Promote land tenure security so that land and
means of production may be pledged as
collateral
*   Establish a policy to promote savings
*   Set up a disaster find
*   Create a risk information center for each
rural zone
10.2.2 Implementation of CNCAS development plan    In progress
i i



Subsector              Objective                   Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
Il. Agricultural inputs   11.1 Revitalization of   11.1.1 Continued government divestiture and    In progress
and cqtuipmcnt        fertilizer and plant health  privatization of seed, fertilizer and plant health
product consumption and     products
supply to producers of
agricultural and stockraising    11.1.2 Tax exemption or reduction for raw  December 94    MA agreement, cf letter
equipment, within a context   materials for use in the manufacture of seed,            2945 of 8/25/94 to
of natural resource         fertilizer, and agricultural and stockraising              MEFP
preservation                equipment
11. 1.3 Enhanced import liberalization, and  In progress
distribuition of seed, inputs, and agricultural
and stockraising equipment
11.1.4 Strengthening of the Government's role  In progress  Reference foodstuffs
in quality control of imported goods and                   code
equipment
11.1.5 Tax exemption or reduction for      Effective 1994
agricultural and stockraising equipment, seed,
fertilizer and other agricultural inputs
11.1.6 Improved credit access to revitalize the   In progress
consumption of fertilizer, plant health
products, and agricultural and stockraising
equipment
11.2 Promotion of use of
selected seed and genetic
materials
11.2.1 Tax exemption for selected seed and  Completed
genetic materials
lC.
03t
PWR 



Subsector                   Objective                    Action to be taken                          Timetable       Comments
12. Partnership between     12.1 Allocation of           12.1.1 Define a framework for consultation  December        Completed: Socio-
socio-occupational          responsibility to producers    to make the socio-occupational associations  1994         occupational associations
associations and            in the different types of    more autonomous                                             now participate in all
Governmcnt                  organization                                                                             interventions for the rural
sector
12.1.2 Promote participation by the socio-  In progress
occupational associations in policy
formulation and implementation
12.1.3 Stimulate and encourage the creation  In progress
of a variety of socio-occupational
associations
o
___________________   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                           0
I'+) -
t > 



Subsector             Objective                   Action to be taken                         Timetable      Comments
13. Natural resource  13.1 Promote grassroots     13.1.1 Establishment of an institutional  Completed
management (NRM)      participation in NRM        framework for bottom-up NRM - CONSERE
13.1.2 Establishment of an NRM-PNAE       December 95
anrangement
13.1.3 Revise the legislation to cover    December 95
integrated and participatory NRM
13.2 Security of land tenure   13.2.1 Land Action Plan Study for sustainable   April 95  Report awaiting
NRM                                                       approval
13.3 Improve operational   13.3.1 Furnish the local authorities with the  December 95
NRM capacities             means of participating effectively in NRM in
their own lands
13.4 Improve agricultural  13.4.1 Implement a soil protection and     December 95
production framework       restoration program
through good NRM
13.4.2 linplement the environimental and NRM   June 95
components of the PDRG
13.4.3 Adopt and implement a master plan for  June 95
the forestry/grazing zone
0  0s



Subsector               Objective                   Action to be taken                                  Timetable      Comments
14. Institutional       14.1 Redefinition of the    14.1.1 Redefine the Government's functions         January 95      The small committee set up to
restructuring of        Govcmment's functions       (legislation, regulations, police, statistics, natural             study experts' reports on
support services                                    disaster management, policy and strategy definition)               institutional restructuring has
submitted its findings to
14.1.2 Identify conditions for transferring its    In progress    ME/MA for their opinion
functions of support, leadership/outreach,
organization of rural life, and technical assistance
14.2 Reorganization of     14.2.1 Local and reeional levels:
government agencies
*    Merger of land agencies                    January 95     Any mcasurcs concerning the
reorganization of Government
*    Establishment of a rural development       January 95     agencies are conditional upon
agency [structure de pilotage du                          the institutional restructuring of
de6veloppement rural] in the Casamance                    support agencies
natural region
14.2.2 Departmental level:
Establishment of units responsible for providing   January 95
public services
14.2.3 Central level:
Establishment of central units to handle the       Janiary 95
following functions:
*    monitoring/programming, coordination
*    statistical processing and analysis
*   policy definition
*    formulation of regulations
co So



Subsector             Objective                    Action to be taken                         Timetable       Comments
15. Monitoring and    15.1 Monitor and evaluate    15.1.1 Strengthening of the Ministry of    June 95         Phase 2 of Agriculture Policy
evaluation of LPDA     LPDA implementation and     Agriculture's formulation, monitoring and                  Unit project to be evaluated by
program                assess its impact           evaluation capacities (Agricultural Policy                 IBRD
Unit)
15.1.2 Creation of an interministerial PASA  January 95   Completed: cf Decree No. 612
monitoring committee                                       of 1/25/95 establishing the
monitoring committee
15.1.3 Annual consultation with donors     November 94    Agricultural PTIP prepared and
concerning the agricultural component of the    and October  adopted by Finance Law
PTIP                                       of each year    approving the PTIP
1995-97
-L
CD   CD
t  w
0       CD
- 'JU



74                                ANNEX III
(Page 1 of 11)
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CHARACTERISTICS
1.          Crop production. Over the last decade, cereal production has fluctuated widely,
ranging from a record high of 1.24 million tons in 1985/86 to a record low of 0.7 million tons in
1984/85. The principal cereal is millet. Average annual millet production is estimated at 550,000
tons and accounts for most of the variation in total cereal production. Second in importance to
mnillet is paddy, the output of which expanded steadily from 136,000 tons in 1984/85 to 177,000
tons in 1992/93, though declining to 148,000 tons in 1993/94. Production of maize and sorghum
are relatively stable averaging each about 120,000 tons annually. Cereals deficit is estimated at
500,000 tons per year, and is covered mostly by imports of rice (350,000 tons) and wheat
(130,000 tons). Small quantities of millet/sorghum and maize are also imported. The variability
in food crop production is paralleled by that of groundnut production which exhibit, however, a
long term tendency to decline (Box 1). Production of cotton, the second most important export
crop, stagnated at 35,000 tons of seed cotton between 1985 and 1990 but has stabilized at around
50,000 tons since 1991/92 production season. Recent data indicate a 10% increase in production
in response to the devaluation (Box 2).
2.          Horticultural Products. Over the last 20 years, horticulture has emerged as a
dynamic subsector in Senegalese agriculture. Cultivated usually under partial water control, the
production of vegetables increased from 72,000 tons in 1973 to 152,000 tons in 1993, while the
production of fruits increased from 46,000 tons to 101,000 tons over the same period.
Production is spread during six to eight months from June through February, period during which
it covers up to 70% of domestic demand. Despite significant obstacles related to transport and
conservation of produce, exports of vegetables are increasingly attracting sizable investments and
in 1993 amounted to 5000 tons. Senegal has several advantages over other African countries in
high-value fruit and vegetable exporting.  First, it has several private firms with years of
experience in the market. They have the skills to market their products and benefit from a proven
track record of relationships with customers. Second, there is growing domestic market for
vegetables that could pick up some slack in a slow year. Peri-urban market gardeners are
increasingly serving domestic urban markets. Third, Senegal is closer to European markets than
several of its competitors but limited air freight service from Dakar reduces this potential benefit.
Fourth, recent private irrigation development has improved Senegal's ability to deliver fresh
produce all year round.



75                               ANNEX III
(Page 2 of I 1)
......   .......  .'''''''  
average foirii n35 be ofth   agricutual (valuen faddd  Rasnges landis estimatp by 312% iloetrs
3    v    .ivtestsck   Pasti  ( raol piroio non).ctradit inasl beten siiicabent acnting on
avepcrag fr 5 of theshc agricuptuia valume byed Rag27%.setmae  t12mlin etrs
the low rainfall North where pastoral activitiesoe also the most important. Overgrazing of range
land is the most serious threat while the availability of water resources is the main obstacle to the
development and intensification of the subsector. Exports of animal products are mostly leather
and hides, amounting to an estimated CFAF I billion in 1993.
Prospects of Senegal's Rice Sector
4.           Current Subsector Characteristics. Despite an overvalued exchange rate, local
paddy production grew by some 30% between 1984/85 and 1992/93, declining in 1993/94 (para.
1 of this Annex). This growth occurred after the government released control of Delta lands to
rural communes for allocation to private developers. Increases in production were thus achieved
mainly through increased area. Private land developments for rice production have proceeded at a
very high rate in the last five years, but have been characterized by poor land preparation and low
input use leading to soil mining and rapidly declining yields (see Box 5). Despite these
shortcomings, private developments of rice production have shown dynamism, and the recent
CFAF devaluation has greatly improved their potential for growth.



76                                       ANNEX III
(Page 3 of 11)
Table 1: Senegal - Key Agricultural Indicators, 1980-911a
Annual  Average           %  Change
1980-85 1986-91        Total  Annual
Primary Sector VA (CFAFb constant 1987 prices)
Total sector                                 259.8    308.9            18.9      2.9
Agriculture subsector                         150.8    163.8            8.6      1.4
Agriculture Production (000,t)
Food cropsb                                   813.2    965.4           18.7      2.9
Export crops                                 773.8    838.8             8.4      1.4
Total Area (000, ha)
Food cropsb                                  1227.5   1211.9           -1.3     -0.2
Export cropsc                                1010.0    882.6          -12.6    -2.2
Real Producer Prices (1980=100)
Food cropsb                                   105.4    106.7            1.2      0.2
Export cropsc                                 102.8    100.7           -2.0    -0.4
Food Importsd
Value ($, m)                                 227.0    257.0            13.2      2.5
Volume (000, t)                              476.0    420.0          -11.8    -2.5
Food Aid (000, t)e                             133.9    157.8           17.8       3.3
Export Crops
Value ($, m)                                  114.0    127.0           11.4      2.2
Volume (000, t)                              241.0    316.0            31.1      5.6
Internal Terms of Trade (1987=lOO)f             94.3      97.0           2.9      0.6
Cereal Per Capita (kg)                         241.8    221.8           -8.3    -1.7
Production                                    138.1    138.7            0.4      0.1
Imports                                        80.9      60.4         -25.3     -5.7
Aid                                            22.7      22.7         - 0.3    -0.1
ISource: Senegal Macroeconomic Update Report, 1993
a The sector includes agriculture, livestock, fishing and forestry subsectors. For the agriculture subsector, the first period
covers 1981-85.
b USAID data for millet sorghum, maize and paddy. These data differ substantially for 1981 where the FAO data show a
higher figure (by 244,000 t) for millet and sorghum. Thus, according to FAO data, food production averages were 855,400 t
for 1980-85 and 963,200 for 1986-90. This represents a total change of 12.6%, or 2.4% per annum.
c Oil groundnuts, confectionery groundnuts, and cotton.
d Rice, wheat, other foodstuffs. Volume relates only to rice and wheat.
e FAO data covering cereals and rice paddy.
f GDP deflators of primary sector over secondary sector. Primary sector includes agriculture, livestock, fishing forestry.
Secondary sector included groundnut oil, mining, construction, energy and other



77                               ANNEX III
(Page 4 of 11)
5.~~~~~           o Copti.ens  Pofthena foal IRicnubetor. The tabebelo omaesteot
sfngV i portednticewtoal forodruction th fogharnesind aftrthe wanaery4 i99 destiatedatin bewenc
intern0a+indl 4rice0 prce avevaried cnieabouty~ si nceJnurary d differee assupinsg ofle  andoris
lpricey (*tpranging from $180 t$225.er ton) fiareonsideed Sirnilarl.,as.t producerd byce tre n
prohibtiely hdinitahvl coetsrie oyth Government,fe adiffxerueintassmtions peonsietersntwith
insutedien askntenrice.oanddyi the rDieltay snctue ofuryr most deton rdelopdue pericetes.  h
tabe shtl.ow thet lak gobaaif rateso privte sctior nI dvlprics tfo amoprie thnanc3iall wistroumets
uduvly~      .       4    toaizn coshes  besfficient tobrnd the sustinacee of  wmpo ted priesonurea wthrouhe
thet developmeny pofue riacial winltrmmentsaindn the.eincentivesadlea foramwr inclsdurducinit issuesa
paede produeactiomn,icedb    itcn  etns(i lain  .h.fcs processing, andditbuon
marktin  .f .oa rie   .. h  eetprt  hag  hudsgiiatym
forhoticuwltura an ric poutio eseial in thet Seq     le     .        theprspct
5.-: Copttvns o h  oa  ic  usco.Te al  eo   omae  h  ot



78                               ANNEX III
(Page 5 of 11)
6.          The following comments on the table are, however, in order. The wholesale price
of imported broken rice includes the broken rice importing parastatal's (CPSP) overhead costs
which are excessively high. Further, the "producer prices" used for paddy are either the pre-
devaluation official prices (respected mainly in the breach) or what producers are currently asking
for since paddy prices were liberalized in June 1994. Without question, as paddy producers and
the now all-private rice processing units get used to a liberalized pricing regime, the market price
will be much lower than the asking price.
7.          These cost comparisons would reflect the competitiveness of local rice production
under the assumption that the producer prices of paddy adequately reflect the costs of all factors
of production (labor, intermediate inputs, and especially the investment costs of developing
irrigation perimeters). This is not the case as producers on Government-developed perimeters do
not pay for the initial investments.  On private perimeters, there are significant external
diseconomies due to the rudimentary nature of the perimeters. Calculations of the domestic
resource costs of rice production in Senegal by Jones and Holleman (op cit) suggest that rice
production should be considered far from internationally competitive even in the post-devaluation
era given the high costs of irrigation development which are treated here as "sunk" costs.
8.          On the policy side, the recent devaluation has reinforced the momentum for
increased liberalization of the rice sector. SAED, the development agency for the Delta area, has
already withdrawn from rice processing and other market-oriented activities to focus on
maintenance and operation of irrigation infrastructure and on technical support to farmers, with
the help of a CFD-financed project. Local rice prices, processing, and marketing have already
been liberalized, and the GOS plans to liberalize rice imports and consumer prices with total
withdrawal of CPSP from commercial imports and rice distribution by February 1996.
9.          The Proposed Rice Import Levy.  The proposed rice import levy will be
announced in November of each year and adjusted in June, if necessary. The import levy will
consist of two parts: an incompressible 'hormal tax" (taxe normale) of 16% consisting of customs
duty, statistical tax etc.; and a proposed surcharge which may vary between 0 and 34% depending
on international prices. The import levy will be applied to a reference price calculated as the
average of the weekly CFAF Dakar cif quotations of broken rice of quality Al over the preceding
two months (September/October and April/May). The levy will be readjusted in June only if the
average reference price changes by more than 7.5% in either direction. Based on current on-farm
productivity and processing efficiency, the following are the recommended tariffs:
Reference Price (RP)   Normal tax            Surcharge            Total
RP>170CFAF/kg             16%                    0%                16%
160<RP<170CFAF/kg         16%                    5%               21%
135<RP<160CFAF/kg         16%                   10%               26%
125<RP<135CFAFIkg         16%                   25%               41%
RP < 125 CFAF/kg          16%                   30%                46%



79                                     ANNEX III
(Page 6 of 11)
Table 2: Effects Of The CFA Devaluation
On Imported And On Locally Produced Rice In Senegal
Before Devaluation                    After Devaluation
Imported Rice (i)
Import Price $/T                    180        225                  180        195        205        225
CFAPer $                            300        300                  600        600        600       600
Import Price CFA/T                54000     67500                108000    117000    123000    135000
Insurance CFA/T                     610        763                 1221       1323       1390       1526
CifDakarCFA/T                     54610     68263                109221    118323    124390    136526
Tariffs + Taxes Mu                17962     26528                 17962      19458      20456     22452
Storage & Handling                 4070      4070                  5291       5291       5291      5291
Port Levy                           310        310                  403        403        403        403
CPSP Costs                        17250      17250                22425      22425     22425      22425
Wholesale Price Dakar CFA/T       94202    116421                155301    165900    172966    187097
Scenario Tariff Of 30% (iii)                                     170106    181938    189826    205603
Local Production (V)
ProducerPrice Cfa/T                          85000     85000      90000      95000    100000    110000
Equivalent White Rice                                 133450    141287    149137    156986    172684
Storage & Handling 1                                     923        923        923        923        923
Transport 1                                             4000       4000       4000       4000       4000
Storage & Handling 2                                     923        923        923        923       923
Processing (iv)                                        21275      21275      21275      21275     21275
Packaging. (Bags)                                       3500       3500       3500       3500       3500
Storage & Handling 3                                     600        600        600        600       600
Transport 2                                             2000       2000       2000       2000       2000
Wholesale Price Dakar Cfa/T                           166671    174508    182358    190207    205905
Cost Of Production Paddy (v)                                   Cab G.P.  Saed G.P.  Saed Piv
Yield Of 4.0 T/Ha                                          102000    115000    134000
4.5 T/Ha                                          91000    103000    120000
5.0 T/Ha                                          82000     92000    108000
Notes: (i) Broken rice (35% or more)
(ii) 33.3% before devaluation and 16.7% afterwards
(iii) All import taxes included, base: CIF price
(iv) Average across various processing plants, based on 65% extraction rate and 2% of paddy weight loss.
(v) All cost measures incorporate a 20% profit margin to producers of product or service.
Sources: Ministere de lAgriculture, Unite de Politique Agricole. 15 mars 1994. Note de Travail du Sous-comite Riz:
Couts des Dijffrents Intervenants de la Filiere Riz dans le cadre de la Liberalisation de cette Filire.
Cotton and Groundnuts Floor Price Schemes
10.            The announcement of floor prices for cotton and groundnuts is justified by the
need to provide farmers with helpful information upon which to make planting decisions (crucial
in many zones where groundnuts and cotton are competing crops), and to make technological
choices. For both crops, there is increasing evidence that farmers' choice of technology is highly
dependent on the relationship between purchased inputs prices (known at planting time) bear to
expected output prices. In particular, farmers resort to extensive methods of cultivation (if they
produce at all) as input prices rise in relation to expected output prices. This also suggests that



80                                ANNEX III
(Page 7 of 11)
there may be exceptional cases where a floor price may need to be maintained (for environmental
reasons among others) irrespective of the current international price.  The cotton sector
experienced just such a situation between 1991 and 1993 (the result of the combined effect of a
grossly overvalued exchange rate and collapse of international prices) where fixing producer
prices on the basis of international cotton fiber prices would have meant "impossibly" low
producer prices.
11.          In the cotton sector (vertically integrated with a sole seedcotton purchasing,
ginning and fiber exporting company), a producer price is announced at the beginning of the
planting season. The producer price is composed of two parts: a floor price and a "rebate"
(ristourne) based on the final results of the previous year's campaign.  In any year, the
conservatively determined floor price can be easily calculated as most of the fiber is sold in
forward markets.
12.          The fund has an upper limit based on gross output and the maximum collapse in
international prices that the fund could be reasonably be expected to support (usually not
exceeding 20% of average prices for last five years). The floor price is reviewed downwards
whenever the size of the fund declines beyond a pre-set level. The scheme breaks down (as in
1991-93) only when international prices hit rock bottom for extended periods and it is judged
imprudent to reduce producer prices further for reasons given above. In such cases, extra-
industry sources of supporting the produce price is unavoidable.
13.          Gross profits from the cotton campaign is distributed in the following manner:
replenishing the support fund (if current level is below the pre-set maximum limit) as a first
priority, with "net profits" being distributed 40% to producers in the form of rebates and the
remainder to the cotton company and the state (dividends/corporate taxes).
14.          A similar (but not identical) scheme is proposed for groundnuts. The differences
are explained by the fact that (a) the Government's determination to privatize SONACOS and to
introduce competition into oil milling and exporting means that, potentially, "surpluses" from the
groundnuts campaign could be located in many exporting entities; (b) unlike cotton, there are no
meaningful forward markets for groundnut oil and cake. The Government, therefore, proposes
that the floor price (which will be set by an inter-industry group and not Government) be "based"
on average international prices for past four years and projections for the current year. To assist
the inter-industry group in designing the scheme, the Government has initiated a study (financed
by the European Union to (a) analyze in detail the past evolution of and prospects for
international groundnut oil prices, (b) make projections on domestic groundnut production taking
into account the planned reforms in the sector, and (c) to propose a scheme and a formula for
determining floor prices. The terms of reference for the study specify that the scheme should: (i)
be entirely industry managed and financed, (ii) be voluntary, and (iii) require interventions to
support the floor price infrequently (perhaps, once every ten years). The floor price will not be
identical to the moving average: it may well be set at one standard deviation (or some fraction
thereof) below the moving average depending on the size of the fund that will be set up to support
the scheme and the degree of risk that will be protected against. The actual price that will be paid



81                                ANNEX III
(Page 8 of 11)
to farmers in any given year will be on the basis of spot prices (and the derived demand of various
millers given their milling costs) except that the prices would be bounded below by the floor price.
15.         Initial thinking of the Government suggests that contributions to the groundnut
support fund (should the fund be below its pre-set limit) will, unlike cotton, be up-front: (a) 1
CFAF retention for each kilo of groundnuts sold to millers and (b) stipulated contributions from
oil millers. Government's on-channeling of STABEX compensations is also being considered as a
possible source of funding the scheme. The latter idea is strongly supported by the European
Union.
Perspectives of The Cotton Sector in Sene2al
16.          Since 1992, development of the cotton sector in Senegal has proceeded within the
context of the third "Lettre de Mission", or performance contract, between the GOS and
SODEFITEX, covering a period of four years and financed by the French Cooperation Agency
(CFD) for an amount of FF 111 million.
17.          The objective of the performance contract was the restructuring of the sector so as
to reduce unit costs (costs are expected to be reduced to 425 cif per kilo of fiber by 1995), restore
the sector's financial equilibrium, and improve its competitiveness. Measures to be undertaken
included the separation of public service activities of SODEFITEX from its agro-industrial
production activities, the former being financed with specific project aid (PDRSO II), and the
setting up of a Cotton Floor Price Support Fund managed by SODEFITEX, seedcotton producers
and Government representatives. The Support Fund guarantees a floor price for cotton, which is
closely linked to international market prices and is determined without direct state intervention
(see previous section).
18.          Since 1990/91, unit costs have been significantly reduced.  However, the
downward trend in international cotton fiber prices has led to a series of  deficits in
SODEFITEX's production accounts in the amounts of CFAF 0.5 billion in 1991/92 and CFAF 1.7
billion in 1992/93. Were it not for the devaluation, the deficits would have persisted despite the
continual reductions in production costs. With the devaluation, however, the cotton sector
experienced a production accounts surplus in 1993/94, and this is expected to be even larger in
1994/95.
19.         Nonetheless, the situation remains fragile. The objectives set forth in the third
"Lettre de Mission" need to be updated so as to (i) preserve the 1994 productivity and cost
reductions gains, (ii) make provisions for the Cotton Price Support Fund after settlement of
arrears from past years, (iii) set aside provisions for modernization and renewal of equipment, (iv)
bring SODEFITEX to a common fiscal law status, and (v) eliminate the remaining "subsidies" in
the cotton sector. Conversely, SODEFITEX, through the continuation of its adjustment efforts,
should be allowed to sell its fiber on the local market at international market prices. On the
export market, increased liberalization, without monopoly, should be pursued actively.



82                              ANNEX III
(Page 9 of 11)
The Sugar Industry in Senegal and the GOS-CSS Snecial Convention
20.         The Government of Senegal (GOS) signed, in March 1970, a special agreement, or
"Convention Sp6ciale" with the Compagnie Sucriere du Senegal (CSS). CSS was to develop
sugar cane production, sugar cane processing and brown sugar refining, with the ultimate
objective of satisfying total local demand for sugar from local sugar cane production.
21.         In return, the GOS awarded CSS major fiscal and financial benefits, the most
important being:
free 99 years' lease of farm land and guaranteed access to Guiers lake and free
irrigation water in the limit of 20.000 m3/ha;
a de jure monopoly on local sugar cane production, guaranteed by quotas and
tariff protection;
exclusive rights for sugar imports, which, however, would require GOS approval
("authorisation prealable"), any imports beyond 1975 need to be justified by a "cas
de force majeure", which was not defined in any manner;
*    substantial fiscal benefits guaranteed for 20 years, such as exoneration from profit
and patent taxes for eight years, and from stock dividend and capital appreciation
taxes for three years, after the first profitable year; exoneration from real estate
taxes for the duration of the convention, and exoneration for 10 years on export
taxes on exports;
*    exoneration from import duties and taxes on equipment and, for five years from
the purchase date of the equipment, on corresponding spare parts;
*    interest free pre-financing of production costs for five years (70% of anticipated
sugar cane receipts for the years 1971-1975); with reimbursements scheduled over
five years after the first year of profitable operation; (reimbursement of GOS
incurred sugar cane development costs of 150 million CFAF was to proceed
according to the same rules and schedule);
*    guaranteed sale prices, supported by a price adjustment and compensation
mechanism from CPSP, and subject to regular updates according to an agreed on
formula.
22.         Three Amendments were made to this initial agreement. The first, in February
1972, postponed the completion date of the planting schedule by two years to August 1977,
increased free water utilization from 20,000 to 30.000 m3/ha and allowed for revision of
guaranteed prices when labor costs increased by a minimum of 3% instead of the 10% agreed to
previously.
23.         The second Amendment was signed in November 1984. The Amendment (i)
explicitly confirmed CSS's monopoly on local production of sugar cane, (ii) pushed back the
target date for achieving self sufficiency to August 1986, (iii) extended CSS's import monopoly
up to the same date, but (iv) provided for financial penalties for any imports made thereafter
without a case of "force majeure". The penalty was a 50% reduction in the guaranteed price
differential between the import price and sale price. The Amendment also provided for an



83                                 ANNEX III
(Page 1 of II)
immediate reduction of 5% off guaranteed wholesale prices, and a planned change in the way
these prices were determined, effective from the 1987/88 campaign, from an import price base to
a cost of production base. Profits from sales of by-products, not included in previous agreements,
were to be split between CSS and CPSP.
24.          The third Amendment pushed back target date for self sufficiency to August 1987,
reconfirmed exclusive rights to imports and replaced the financial penalties for imports by a
provision for redistributing CSS's import margin between CSS and the GOS. Fiscal and tariff
taxes benefits were extended, modus vivendi, in every amendment, CSS apparently not showing
any profits since its inception.
25.          In summary, CSS, without ever living up to its commitments of achieving
2
Senegal's goal of self-sufficiency in sugar without any cost to the GOS budget, has enjoyed:
rents from the cumulated monopolies in local production, processing, distribution,
and from exclusive import rights;
free access to extremely valuable resources, irrigation water and good soils; and
*    tremendous fiscal and financial benefits.
26.          As a result, Senegalese consumers have been paying for sugar two to three
times its opportunity cost, and the GOS treasury has forgone important financial resources
either through transfers or through forgone fiscal and tariff tax resources. It is for these reasons
that the GOS decided to re-negotiate this special convention with the purpose of achieving the
following objectives:
*    eliminate immediately all monopoly privileges on sugar cane production, sugar
imports, sugar processing and refining, and sugar distribution,
*    eliminate prior authorizations for imports and replace them  with tariff
protection,
*    eliminate all special fiscal and tariff tax benefits accorded to CSS and change
the latter's status to that of a common law enterprise;
*    fully liberalize prices and margins in the sugar market.
27.          The New Aereement was signed in January 1995. In addition to meeting all these
objectives, it provides for a tariff protection to be accorded to CSS. The main consideration in
From Buchs, Thierry. Aout 1994. Le Marche du Sucre: Presentation et Discussion du Cas du Senegal. AF5IE
draft report.
Stated in the preamble to the special convention as a justification for giving CSS the agreement.



84                                ANNEX III
(Page 11 of 11)
determining the nature of the protection to be accorded is the fact that the international sugar
market is quite specific in the sense that most major producers (producing countries) are highly
subsidized and/or sell their outputs in highly protected markets. As a result, international spot
sugar prices frequently bear no relationship to actual cost of production: the international market
being a vent for "surplus" production.
28.          Given this feature, the Government negotiated the level(s) of protection to be
accorded to CSS based on a reference price that, for 1995, is very close to the current average of
the guaranteed US sugar prices, the guaranteed EEC sugar prices and the spot price (CFAF 271
per kilo) . Importers pay a compensatory tax equal to the difference between the going spot price
and the reference price in addition to the import tax (of a cumulative 45%, including the value-
added tax) levied on the reference price. At current Dakar cif spot prices of approximately CFAF
220, this implies a nominal tariff protection of about 79% in 1995. The reference prices for the
subsequent years (1996-1999) have also been predetermined in current CFAF. These prices will
decline irrespective of the rate of inflation from 271 to CFAF 256 in 1999 to take into account
expected productivity increases in CSS's operations. These nominal references prices will be
adjusted upwards, if and only if, CSS costs of operation increase as a result of Government
decisions such as an increase in the minimum wage or petroleum prices.



85                             ANNEX IV
(Page 1 of 3)
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MAIN ISSUES ON RURAL SAVINGS AND CREDIT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND LIVESTOCK SECTOR
Rural Savings and Credit
1.          Past Reforms and Proposed Actions. Proposed SAL I actions included a study of
rural credit, and subsequent Bank monitoring of the application of its findings. These were not
implemented. SAL II involved no actions relating to rural savings and credit. In SAL III, a study
on the comparative performance of different rural credit programs was completed, and a second
study was to be undertaken on the financial situation of the rural credit bank, CNCAS.
Thereafter, an action plan on rural credit was to be prepared and put into effect. This program
has been partially implemented.
2.           The reform program supported by the AG-SECAL, does not specifically address
rural credit. However, other donors (especially the Caisse Francaise de Developpement, CFD)
have on-going programs which seek to further the process of privatizing rural credit to make it
better suited to the needs of the rural population. The development of a rural mutual credit
system is encouraged in these programs as is legal reform to make it easier to post collateral and
undertake foreclosures. Rural credit reforms, in these programs, also include an improved
mobilization of rural savings. However, reform in this area is difficult, particularly given the
history of non-enforcement of debt repayment. Overdue crop credits have been forgiven at least
four times, giving farmers little incentive to repay. Repayment rates for CNCAS have fallen
sharply in recent years, and the system is nearly bankrupt. Public share holdings of CNCAS have
been reduced by the sale of 16.52% of shares to rural producers and the transfer of shares to the
West African Development Bank (Banque Ouest-Afticain de Developpement BOAD) as fideo-
commis (foundation or board of trustees) outside of Government control.  Thus, the
Government's involvement in rural credit has been sharply reduced over the past few years, a
process that will continue with support from other donors cofinancing the AG-SECAL.
3.          Institutional Development. Under SAL III Government agreed to complete a
study on the reorganization of Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) and to implement it. In the
event, this study proposed a considerable expansion of the Ministry, which Bank staff felt was
already oversized, and the reorganization was abandoned. Civil service restructuring under SAL
IV has since led to some pragmatic rationalization of the Ministry. A study of the organization of
field services, to be financed jointly by the IDA-funded Agricultural Services project and the CFD,
is expected to lead to further rationalization.  The LADP plans for the limitation of the
Govemment's missions to public service and support to the rural sector.  Public services,
performed at the national level, include the definition of policies, application of laws, information
gathering and diffusion and efforts against natural disasters.  Work in support of rural
communities, which has recently been decentralized, includes technical assistance, training and
extension. A specific problem in the past had been the absence of any policy-review capacity in



86                               ANNEX IV
(Page 2 of 3)
the Ministry of Agriculture. To remedy this, a small policy analysis unit has been set up under the
Agricultural Services Project.
4.           Research activities are supported by two other IDA credits, the Agricultural
Services Project (Credit No. 2108-SE), and the Agricultural Research II Project (Credit No.
2107-SE). The Agricultural Services project is the first four-year phase of a long-term program
aimed at improving agricultural support services to farmers and herders. The project has one
principle component, improvement of crop and livestock extension services, based on lessons
learned from pilot operations undertaken over the past two years (1992/93). This included
systematic in-service training of extension staff at all levels, formal research/extension linkages
and careful implementation and effectiveness monitoring.  There are also two secondary
components: (i) strengthening of producer organizations through training of their leaders and a
functional literacy program; and (ii) strengthening of the analytical capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture (formerly Ministry of Rural Development) through training and short-term
consultancies in policy formation, project preparation and appraisal, and performance monitoring.
5.           The Agricultural Services and Professional Organizations Project aims to improve
the operations of the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute (ISRA) by focusing on : (a)
adaptive research involving the testing, within the farming environment, of the technologies
developed during the first project; (b) applied research targeted at major technical problems in the
priority agricultural zones; (c) development of an applied research program of natural resource
management; (d) strengthening linkages among research, extension, development agencies and the
farming community; (e) strengthening the administrative and financial management of ISRA; (f)
providing financial support for ISRA's research support services and for establishment of a
commercial production company to manage revenue-earning activities; and (g) establishing an
unallocated research reserve fund to enable urgent research work identified at yearly research
reviews to be financed without delay. Efforts under the AG-SECAL build upon these projects,
particularly in making research and extension activities more relevant to the needs of farmers and
herders.
6.           The AG-SECAL supports the Government's policy to work as a partner with
genuinely  representative  rural organizations.   The  Government's  decision  to  include
representatives of producers in preliminary discussions with donors demonstrates a growing
commitment to this reform. At the time of SAL I, the main farmer organizations were the
cooperatives. These were ineffective semi-official bodies, supported by a large staff of civil
servants. SAL I included a requirement that Government reorganize the auditing and accounting
system of the cooperatives. It endorsed a Government proposal to decentralize the cooperatives
by setting up village branches, and its specific actions included trials of the capacity of village
cooperatives to handle input supply and credit. Failure to implement these measures was one of
the reasons for canceling the SAL.
7.           Since then, Senegal has seen the widespread development of unofficial popularly
based farmers' groups, which have organized their own associations and national federation.
Government has responded pragmatically, creating a facilitating legal framework which allows
such groups to have a legal personality.  It has also slowly disengaged from the formal



87                             ANNEX IV
(Page 3 of 3)
cooperative movement.  The ministerial reorganization of 1989 abolished the Cooperative
Directorate of NMR1, replacing it with a much smaller department.
8.          Livestock Sector. SAL III included a number of actions concerning the livestock
sector. A livestock action plan was to be developed and implemented. Domestic meat prices
were to be decontrolled. The monopoly on skins and hides of the public enterprise SERAS was
to be abolished. The ranching company SODESP was to be restructured. Of these measures, the
livestock action plan was poorly executed, but the policy reforms were successfully accomplished,
and with the exception of SODESP, the sector appears to have been successfully restructured.
The CFAF devaluation is January 1994 has provided the livestock sector the opportunity to be
more competitive in international markets and expand its exports. To this end, measures are under
consideration to reduce administrative and regulatory constraints within a framework of
liberalization. In addition, the state is continuing to reduce its involvement in veterinary services,
focusing instead on services in sanitary inspection and response to outbreaks of illnesses.
Governments and donors are also making efforts to integrate crop production and livestock. The
proposed Agricultural Services and Professional Organizations Project will support efforts to
improve the provision of livestock services.



88                                                          ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Priority Poverty Indicators
Most Same region/income group        Next
Latest single year        recent        Sub-      Lower-       higher
Unit of                                   estimate    Saharan      middle-      income
Indicator                                    measure           1970-75     1980-85      1988-93       Africa     income        group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                          local curr.                          ..           ..
Headcount index                             % of pop.               ..          ..           ..
Lower poverty line                          local curr.              ..          ..           ..
Headcount index                             % of pop.                                        ..                 ..
GNP per capita                                 USS                 380          370         750          520        1,590       4,350
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                       local curr.              ..          ..           ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade
Consumer price index                         1987=100               40           98          97
Lower income
Food"                                                              21
Urban                                                              ..        102           95
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services  % of GDP                 ..         ..           ..
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                                  % school age pop.          41           56          56           67         104          105
Male                                           "                   48          67           67          74
Female                                                             34           46          50          60
Mortality
Infant mortaliry                       per thou. live births     122.0        87.0        66.8         93.1         39.0        35.8
Under 5 mortality                                                   ..          ..       120.0        172.3        61.5         42.6
Immunization
Measles                                   % age group                ..       40.0        59.0         49.9        77.6         82.0
DPT                                            "                     ..       54.0        60.0         51.9         82.2        74.2
Child malnutrition (under-5)                                         ..          ..        20.1
Life expectancy
Total                                         years                40           45          50           52          67           69
Female advantage                               "                   2.0         2.0         2.0          3.3          5.9         5.9
Total fertility rate                     births per woman           7.0         6.7          6.0         6.2          2.9         2.9
Matemal mortality rate                 per 100,000 live births       ..          ..         933
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security         % of total govt exp.                     ..          ..
Social security coverage                % econ. active pop.          ..          ..           ..
Access to safe water: total                  % of pop.               ..        52.7        51.2           ..           ..        86.7
Urban                                         -                 56.0        79.0         85.4          ..           ..        93.9
Rural                                                             ..        38.0         26.0          ..           ..        66.7
Access to health care                                                ..          ..        40.0
Population growth rate                   GNP per capita growth rate                     Development diamondb
6                                           I 0+-(annual average, perent)    (annual average, pereent)  Life expectancy
4 
2 -     -_   4 1O-      -+11 l|GNP                       Gross
0 -~~~ ~               u I      I    per  i                           primary
N        ~~~capita                       enrollment
0                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5
K1                                           -10
1970-75     1980-85      1988-93              1970-75     1980-85     1988-93                Access to safe water
z  Senegal                                                                                         Senegal
- Lower-middle-income                           -     -                                       -    Lower-middle-income
a. See the technical notes, p.387. b. The development diamond, based on four key indicators. shows the average level of development in the counury
compared with its income group. See the introduction.



89                                                          ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMIENT CREDIT
Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Resources and Expenditures
Most Same regin/income group         Next
Latest single year        recent        3ub-      LoUwe'r-     higher
unit of                                   estimate    Saharanu      middle-     income
Indicator                                    measure            I97-75      1980-85      1988-93      Africa      incomne       group
Resources and Expenditures
HUTMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre=-1993)                       thousands            4.806        6,375       7,902     558,978    1,096,665      500,507
Age dependency ratio                           ratio               0.94         0.94        0.92         0.94        0.69         0.62
Urban                                        % of pop.             34.2         37.9        41.3         29.8        54.7         71.2
Population growth rate                       annual %                2.9         2.8         2.5          2.9         1.6          1.7
Urban                                                               3.4         3.9         3.7          5.0         2.9          2.8
Labor force (15-64)                          thousands             2.245       2,897       3,393     229,480      459.196      190,136
Agriculture                               % of labor force           82          8 1
Industry                                                              6           6
Female                                           '41                             40           39          36           31           29
Females per 1 00 males
Urban                                        number
Rural
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                       thou. sq. km          196.72       196.72      196.72  '24,273.63   40,682.67    21,848.14
Density                                   pop. per sq. km         24.43        32.41       39.17        22.37       26.52        22.51
Agricultural land              ~~~~~% of land area      28.31       28.31       28.31        52.54       39.61        41.26
Change in agricultural land                  annual %              0.00         0.00        0.02         0.06       -0.13         00
Agricultural land under irrigation              %                   2.94        3.21        3.30         0.83       12.66         8.84
Forests and woodlanld                      thou. sq. km               ..        0.08        0.08         5.32        5.95         8.04
Deforestation (net)                          annual %                  .           .        0.66
INCOME
Household income                                                                              5
Share of top 20% of households             % of income               .            .5
Share of bottom 40% of households                                    I. .I1
Share of bottom 20% of households               '.                                            4
E-XPENDITURE
Food                                         % of GDP                 ..        42.4
Staples                                                              ..        13.0           .
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs                  '                     .        14.3
Cereal imports                           thou, metric tonnes        220         557          579       13,157      66,281       48,947
Food aid in cereals                                                  27          131          7 1      5,079        5,477         544
Food production per capita          .        1987=100               158          82           79         101          101          102
Fertilizer consumption                         kglha                 8.7         3.8         3.1          4.6        48.0         67.8
Share of agriculture in GDP                  %ofGDP                30.2         18.8        19.5         16.3        15.7          8.0
Housing                                      % of GDP                 ..9.8
Average household size                  persons per household         .
Urban                                                              7.6
Fixed investment: housing                    % of GDP                 ..3.9                    .
Fuel and power                               % of GDP                 ..3.6
Energy consumption per capita              kg of oil equiv.         137          142         115         257        1,595        1,632
Households with electricitY
Urban                                    % of households
Rural
Transport and corm-unicationl                % of GDP                 ..4.7
Fixed investment: transport equipment                                 ..1.3
Total road length                            thou. km                14           14          15
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                      persons            16,278       13,048      17,508           ..       3,277
Population per nurse                             ~~~~~~~~~~1,675  2,026
Population per horspia bd775                                                      1. ,371              1,269         604          395
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)          % of cases               .            .27                    37           ..51
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                               % of school-age POP.         10           14          16          Is           53          53
Female                                             ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  9  11
Pupil-teacher ratio: primarY              pupils per teacher         42          46           59          40                       2
Pupil-teacher radio: secondary                   '29                             35           34
Pupils reaching grade 4                     % of cohort               ..90                    92
Repeater rate: primary         51' %of total enroll..     .18          16          16
Illiaterracy   pimr                      % of pop. (age 15+)          ..68                    62          50           19          14
Female                                  % of fern. (age 15+)          .8                      56                       .175
News~par circulati'on                      per thou. pop.             5            8           6          12           7412
World hank Intemnaaona Eonomics DepartMent, April 1995)



90
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Key Economic Indicators
ism8    t      19;0   19A    1992   19i!   197C   19i.i   19,6   W97    19;B   1999
--------------------------- --- ---  --    ..     -- Est.  ----------   Pqjectia-s -------- ----- 
MrAL AC=lXNTS (a % of CD at   sm  157 p-ris)
MP                                   100.0   1m0.   100.    1co.o  10m.   1co.0  Ico.0  lX.00 .0 1(0    CO.0  tm.o   100 o
Priray s                            22.6    2 A3    21.2   32.3   32.2   19.5   20.9   a2.9   20.9   32.9   a2.9           )A
Se5riy setr                         18.4   18.3   18.5   18.3   19.2   19.1   19.0   19.3   19.7 a2.1   20.4               IA
Tertiary sr                         59.0   61.4   60.3   60.9   60.6   61.4   60.1   59.7   59.4   59.0   587               A
Ca-sition                             94.0    %.9   93.4    944    955.0   55.1   52.8   91.4    9.8    8l.6    S.o          IA
G-ss dtic  irimt   1/                 12.3   12.5    12.0   122    12.3   12.5   12t2    12.5   13.5    14.4   14.6           A
kb:.ic fixe irmt;tunt                3.8    4.0    3.7       3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.8    3.8    3.9           I
Pri.-.e fixa inmstrrt                84    8a5       8.3    8.5      86    8.8    8.5    8.8    9.7    10.6   10.7          IA
R ce  ala                             -6.3   -6.0   -5.5   -6.5   -7.1   -7.6   -5.0   -3.8   -3.2   -2.9   -2.6             I
Ej-   GNFS                          23.8   25.5   25.6    4.7   23.7   23.8   23.8   24.4    4.5    4.3   24.0             IA
ITpxts GJFS                        -30.1  -31.5  -31.0  -312   -30.8  -31.4  -2.8  -282   -Z7.7   -27.2  -26.6             I
G-s dretic savirGs                    6.0    5.1    6.6       5.6    5.0    4.9    7.2    8.6   10.2    11.4   12.0         I
cDp at aLp. (.rrut LES million)     Ls.92  462.5  57`.3  595   6265  S7r .0   3.7  44.4  47 2.1  49A.5  E-47.4  5S2.5
tZP par ci2ta (Cjr3T '-)             714.6   6 .5  770.1  739.6 S      1.3  707.7   41.4  518.8  =-7.4  553.3  576.0   5-3.
A.e-a exaerGe rate (CFkS)            257.9  319.0   272.3    2e2       25   2e5.5   52.5  578.7  5EI.2  5E.6   5P.6  52.6
F.L!C FINCE (as % of MP at mrmit nm-'ot prics) 2/
Gc%t     reuAe  (excL. g7Ei,)         1.6   17.2   19.2   18.9   17.7   15.7   14.4   15.0   15.3   15.7   15.8              IA
Ttalo eitL; a-d ret laodirg           32.6   21.5   18.8   19.9   21.3   19.6   18.9   17.6   17.0   15.9   15.5             IA
O.eall sipfts (+) or cbficit (-)      -4.0   -4.4    0.3    -1.0   -3.7   -3.9   -4.5   -2.6   -1.7   -0.2    0.3            )A
CapitaL edpatme                        2.8    2.6    2.8    4.4    5.0    4.0    4.7    4.8    4.9    4.9    5.1             IA
-AL ANtPL QJIH RATES (1587 pric) C*
Griss ErStic pvr=t                     5.1   -1.4    4.5       03     2.9   -2.0    2.4    4.7    4.8    4.5    4.5          IA
Grcs drestic irz                       3.0    3.0    5.5       0.3    2.7    IA       N4      )A     IA      m       IA      IA
W   AMN-AL PER CAPITA GJH RATES (15B p-Fices) C
sa drestic pldt                        2.1   -4.4    1.5   -2.1    0.0   -4.9   -0.5    1.8    1.9    1.6    1.6             IA
Ta=L m-a.p-iai                         0.9   -3.4   -0.3   -12         0.8   -4.7   -2.9    02       0.1    0.2    1.0       IA
Private co;tian                        1.6   -4.2    0.3    0.4    1.6   -5.2   -0.4    1.2    0.7    1.2    1.4             IA
MOEVARY DINCATORS
Velocity (CEPIW)                       4.4    4.0    4.4       43      4.3    4.9    5.1    4.8    4.6    4.5    4.5         IA
Gra.d rate of) M2                      0.5    10.3   -4.8      5.8    3.6  -12.6   3L4    18.7   12.9    9.0    8.8          IA



91
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Key Economic Indicators (continued)
---------------------------  ---- ---          ---  ----    -- ------ -  *-------------Projetas -----
RALAKE OF PATS (orrat M Biliacs)
Et-s oFS                             344.5 4e .3  400.9  331.0  3763   353   M9.2  8W3.5   58O0   922               27.5   IM.7
cf cidh: Mdid   f.ob.               2.1   242.0   20.3   7re 5   219.2  23.7  444.2  512.7   541  59Z.9   6036   657.9
1p;    OI5                          -40.8   483.1  -468  4775  4479.1  -.O  -901.7  -3.7 -1009.4 -1074.5 -11433. -1212.7
of hJich: Mmdodise f.ob.             -i      -319  -317.0  -314.3  -317.7  -31tO  -55.3  -629  -W.S  -7213  -7,76,5  -53146
Re.r2 bila                            -953   -&-8   -759   -3.5  -1t22  -110.5  -M.S  -110.2  -111.4  -123   -116.0  -127.0
met fw    pnuts                       -72.0   -61.2  -64.0   -4.2  -53.0  -5.1   -4.7  -%A6  -SE3   -57.6   -5.9  -0.1
f WJidc: Iret da ORS d)             61.6    54.5    S.0   46.1   44A.0   44.7   81.7   83.5   85.0    8.2    2.4    79.5
Net  m.rtx tr asf 0s (priute)          1.8     2.0    8.0    8.0    9.7   11.4    3.0    3.7   27.0   aLS3    2.9    31.4
arJrt uAt bel., tfa  eff. Wa.  -1E&5  -1420  -131.9  -12.7  -146.1  -13.2  -Z3 ;  -181.1  -1V.7  -181.4  -W-0  -13.7
Net officiaL tWaes                     812    2.9    72.2   74.3   74.1   67.9   19.9  1273   13Q9   134.6   W.4   1423
llrrut Ar t Wal., ew off. tws.    -53   -5.1  -59.7  -57.9  -72.0  -5.3   -233   -5.8  -51.S  -46.8                   .6   -46.4
WITA1L AC:lT                           12.3   33.6   35.3    13.4   37.5    6.5    2.4   24.7   4Z.8    Q9    74.3    66.0
Pblic Swr (v)                         34.5    40.3    11.8    164    37.2   23.3   77.4   14.1    3.0   47.8    5.9    486
Crairg                               96.0   1C2.9    8l.4   69.8  7P9   6:.3  1629   90.0   1t.0   133.0   30.0   130.0
*ATtiz3dan                          -61.5  -d2..1  -6.6  -53.4  -41.7  -41.0   -5.5  -75.9  -74.0  -72.2  -73.1  -81.4
Pri.ete Se:t (ret)                    -230    -4.7   -3.4   -1.1   -9.8  -153         5.0   10.6   123    15.1    17.4    17.4
Erra-s ad Qissiam                      0.8   -2.5    2.9   -1.9   10.1   -1.5    0.0    0.0    (.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
OerLL haLwce                      -73.0   -25.5  -24.4  -44.5  -34.5  -78.8   59.1  -3.1    -9.0   16.1   33.7    19.6
F; D L                                73.0    25.5   24.4   44.5   34.5   78.8  -59.1   29.1    9.0  -16.1  -30.7  -19.6
X. F      igAswm  C3C3                35.1   -M.2  -17.9   -4.0   -5.4   31.7  -74.2  -61.0  -46.9   -4.2  -3L5   -27.1
q=iar. art "r 3atw                     7   -31.3   -10.7   -7.1    6.3    N.4  -96.6   -83.5  -55.8   -1.2   -1.4   -&9
Ntu  of aud ressces                  0.4      1.6   -7.2    3.1  -11.7   -7.7   22.4   22.5         &9   -25.0  -37.1   -23.2
Pers ars C:-a                          0.Q    11.4   -7.5    5.6   27.4   37.3  -174.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
De  reLief/dfaL.                      33.9    4.3   49.8   42.9   12.5    9.9  t893    -1.4    8.5    8.2    7.9             7.5
Fimairg W                              0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   91t4    47.2    0.J    0.0    0.0
Nem a d. IteTs:
4-cS rwesws, Ye-rd yI tdL in)         10.7   17.9    103    12.1   14.4    5.2        43    26.8  177.4   173.5  12.0         MA
G-s   r oes as nrrd  of ints           (L1     0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3         13      1.2    1.1      IA
E i GNFS ai X of  P                   23.2    27.1   25.8   34.6   22.6   22.2   33.9   33.0   32.7   32.7   3Z6    32.5
n=rs M2r as  o sf MP                 -29.7  -32.7  -3.7  -30.0  -2 8          9.0  -35.3  -37.3  -36.7  -35.5  -35.3   -363
R        batae as    M                -6.5    -5.6   -4.9   -5.4   -62    -6.8   -5.8   -43    -4.1   -3.8   -3.7   -3.8
AmLW GMTH RMES (acrrrt pric) Ce
Ne'dais  e:, f.o.b.                    0.2    19.7    0.5   -4.4   -5.7   -7.1   118.1   13.2    8.2    9.5    9.2           7.3
M e ad se inFrts, f.ob.                -0.9    11.9   -0.5   -0.9    1.1   -1.8   87..    7.1    6.8    7.7    7.7    7.1
PRICE WICES (tSE0=t10
E>pwt price irnia (CFA frac to.s      112.5   1s.8  1C03    8.9   873    a9.0  IY.4  1S0.7  19L8   199.3  233.9   212.1
Urpt prim ir   tCFA frsr ta,;s        84.9    91.2    3.-0 3   5.8    83.6   t6.2   t76.9  177.4   t74   189.5   S6.9   2Y0.2
Tems of  oa                          120.7   119.3  114.0  103.6  10.5  103.2  105.4  107.5  10.7  1C5.2   14.6   103.9
Ral effeci've  dwrge ratm (F dta)       U3    95.8   933    a3    87.1    5.2    543 N         A      N           N A         )A
Ca-aa price iri C: ge  rate)           -1.8    0.4     03    -1.8    0.0   -0.7   39.1    7.8         .5    2.5    2.5       2.5
CDP deflat-r C% gr    rate)            2.1     0.9    0.6    146    1.5    0.4   35.4    7.8    2.5    2.            2.5     2.5
1/ Figurs  s mt ref lt de    in st.
2/ Fig.res for 19l319;1 as fuw  s r ie fiscaL Srs.
Sarce:  If, bld 8ark



92
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Key Exposure Indicators
---- - ------                     --       ---           E;t. <--Praj::is
In LE mi Ltima at a.rrt pFicEs:
T=aclI        dis. & a rg CfJ  1/ ? 7.0 0  e.0  30 1.0   =7.0  3672J  391.0 O5M   E6             3.0  M.30 3153   2.O
Net dis ts 1/                        115.8  127.9    43 I   5.1  140.3   81.3   13    X.A    51.4   81.1    6.5    &.4
Tctal d   swvice dt (MS) V          323.6 ;50   MM.1 Z63  ze s5 27.2  2;5.1   272n    5s4   3L9   Z.0    L.3
De   a-d Device Irdicata  C   V
T=ti P                               7&3    71.0   65.S    63.1   57;5  64.7   91.1   E0.0   733    665    59.0   5Z7
TSC=                                334.1  Z7.7   ZO.4   22.5  249.4  a25.6   23.7  23.5  2206   2C03   t78.Z  159.9
TDS                                  27.7   21.0   aO 3    182       06    21z5   21.9   19.7      82   .LS   14.6   122
ClEsiaulm                            2.6    53.b   53.2   532    57.4   603    66.6   6.7    70.6   72.6   74.3   75.7
wrd Ba* EN  Izdcatm (CI9BD+b   CZ
dx  air* DSkl ic DS                   8.3    8.8   11.8   13.5   15.0   12.9   10.2   11.2   11-5   11.7   11.3   1;22
P&      ffto DS/bLic DS              31.0   31.3   3928   41.4   55.1   41.1   42.9   49           3 4.0   47.9   46.4   46.3
lbltd Birk DS=                        2.1    1.9    1.7    2.1    1.5    2.1    2.0    1.8    1.7    1.5    1.4    1.3
1/ IrciLu  p.bLic ad plicLy grae   it, pri'ate rm-g  ia    !t, cse of 5  avits, a-d glt-tnm czitat.
Sar:: Of, DV  R=tirG SystE  >).



93
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Status of Bank Group Operations
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 3/31195 - MIS data as of 4/18195)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loan ar      Fiscal                                                    Undis-         Closinc
Credit No.     Year        Purcose                             IOA      bursed           Date
Credits
59 Credits Closed                                              750.75
18550-SN         1S88       lrngarion IV                        33.60        1.54       06130/95 (R
18680-SN         1988       Industry Sector                     33.00      21.04        06130/98
18840-SN         1988        Municipal Housing Development      46.00      20.12        03/31/96 (R
19100-SN         1988       TA Development Mgmt                 17.00       6.64        06/30/95 (R)
19920-SN         1989        Small Rural Ops. il                16.10        7.34        06/30/98
21070-SN         1990        Ag. Research II                    18.50        7.65         12/31/95
22550-SN         1991        Population/Health                  3_.00       16.99         12/31/95
22660-SN(S)      1991        Transpcrt Sector SECAL             6_.00      50.47          12131/97
23690-SN         1992        Public Works and Employment        39.00      38.83          6/30196
24730-SN         1993        Educat'on V                        40.00      41.83          6/30/99
22661-SN         1994        Transport Sector SECAL              3.73       4.17          6/29/95
25821-SN(S)      1995        Economic Recovery Cr.               3.20        0.00         12127/95
26810-SN(S) '    1995        Private Sector Adjustement         40.00       18.83         6/30/96
Total number Credits = 13                                      390.13     235.45
TOTAL /1                                      1,140.88
of which repaid                             35.21
TOTAL held by IDA                             1,105.87
TOT7AL undisbursed                                         235.45
Not yet effective.
/1 Total Approved, Repayments. and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Credits.
(R) Indicates formally revised.Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SALUSiCAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Sank Repayments are historical value, ali other are market values.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not taken
from the Task Budget File.



94
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 4
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN SENEGAL
(As of March 31, 1995)
Original Gross Commitment
Fiscal                                    Type of                  Loan  Equity    Partic.   Total
Year   Company                            Business              --------------------US$ mil ------------------
1967    Societe Industrielle d'Engrais
du Senegal (SIES)A'              Fertilizers               1.70     1.01     .76     3.47
1972    BUD Sen6gal, S.A.                 Food and Agribusiness      -      0.84      -       0.84
74/76
1974/   SOFISEDIT-'                       Development Finance        -      0.34      -       0.34
85
1980    Banque de l'Habitat du Senegal    Capital Markets           -       0.46      -       0.46
1980    Societe Hoteliere du Barachois-A/  Tourism                 3.00      -        -       3.00
1982/   Industries Chimiques du Senegal   Fertilizers             37.00     0.14      -      37.14
88
1986    African Seafood, S.A.             Fish Processing Plant    3.29     0.84      -       4.13
1986    SOTIBA-SIMPAFRIC-a/               Textiles                 3.20      -        -       3.20
1990    AFRICAMER, S.A.                   Fishing                  3.45      -        -       3.45
1994    SOGECA                            Capital Markets           -       0.16      -       0.16
1994    SOEX                              Livestock                0.19       -        _      0.19
TOTAL Gross Commitments1!                                 51.83    3.79       .76    56.38
less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales  44.06     3.02      .76    47.84
Total Commitments held by IFCO'                            7.77    0.76       -       8.54
TOTAL Undisbursed Commitments                              0.45    0.15       -       0.60
Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
- Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Action Plan to Improve Implementation
RATINGS
FY    CREDIT             NAME             DEVELOP-    IMPLEMENT-   DISBURSE-                               PROBLEMS AND PROPOSED ACTIONS
No                               MENT                ATION              MENT
OBJECTIVES           PROGRESS              LAG
(04/19/95)
1988   Cr. 1868-SE      1NDUSTRY               S                    S                44%        Disbursements slowed down in 1993-94 because: i) of cautious
SECTOR                                                                 attitudes of banks participating to the line of credit (80% of the project
proceeds), before and after the devaluation of the CFAF; and ii) certain
components--not essential to the project--became clearly questionable.
Following a mid-term review carried out in early April 1995, the
project is presently being restructured. Restructuring aims at elimi-
nating inactive components needed to be amended to take into account
the devaluation of the CFAF.
1988    Cr. 1884-SE    MUNICIPAL               S                    S                38%        Several sub-components have not been executed on schedule due to
HOUSING                                                                lack of counterpart funds and management and procurement issues.
The problems are now resolved. Delegated contract management will
be signed with AGETIP regarding 2 components included in the Action
Plan.
1988   Cr. 1910-SE     TECHNICAL               S                    S                34%        Delays in implementation of some components occurred because of
ASSISTANCE                                                               their complexity. In particular, audit of the Civil Service Wage bill
DEVEL.MGMT.                                                               where Govt. needs to consult all interested parties and the Household
Budget Survey took longer than expected. Several consultants will
start work soon. The next supervision in May 1995 will assess if the
project should be extended for one year.
1989    Cr. 1992-SE    SMALL RURAL             S                    S                31%        Following suspension of disbursements in October 1992, the Govt. and
OPS. nI                                                              the project's co-financers - IFAD and IDA - undertook a comprehensive
review and adopted an action plan to restructure the project. Key to
this plan is the entrusting of project execution responsibilities to the
beneficiary-stakeholders and the use of an independent (AGETIP-like)
agency to manage project implementation. The legal agreement has
been amended accordingly, and procedures are underway to lift
suspension.
1991    Cr.2266-SE     TRANSPORT               S                    S                63%        Slow disbursement is due to i) one year delayed effectiveness; (ii) lack
SECAL                                                                 of counterfunds causing implementation delays; and iii) cancellation of  UQ
the second tranche adjustment (US$6.5 million). Counterpart funding  i
problems are resolved for the moment. Disbursements are expected to  W x
accelerate during 1996 and 97, and the closing date remains December  o
3-9H
31, 1997.



I                                   ~~~~~~~~RATINGS
FY    CREDIT              NAME             DEVELOP-    IMPLEMENT-   DISBURSE-                               PROBLEMS AND PROPOSED ACTIONS
No                               MENT                 ATION              MENT
OBJECTIVES           PROGRESS               LAG
(04/19/95)
1991    Cr.2255-SE    POPULATION/               S                    S                42%         The disbursement lag is expected to decrease substantially as two
HEALTH                                                                  pending civil work contracts are now in process. Major contract awards
have been delayed because of price revisions following the FCFA
devaluation. At the recently held mid-term review, procurement plans
have been revised to speed up commitments of all remaining funds
under the credit.
1992    Cr.2369-SE        PUBLIC                S                    S                77%         Given Govt.'s tight fiscal situation, counterpart funding has
WORKS II                                                                 problematic. As a result France and Canada have paid 4 billion CFAF
to cover counterpart funding requirements for municipalities. AGETIP
will prepare an Action Plan to accelerate implementation before May
15, 1995. In addition, Govt. has requested DCA amendments to
decrease financial participation of municipalities to 10% instead of
50%.
fD
-   -
F-h
. Ci
HF  -



97
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Relations with the IMF
( as of June 30, 1994)
I     Membership Status joined August 31, 1962. Article XIV
II    General Resources Account            SDR million          % of quota
Quota                                      118.90             100.0
Fund holding of currency                   149.33             125.6
Reserve position in the Fund                 1.10              0.9
III   DRS Department                       SDR million        % of allocation
Net cumulative allocation                  24.46              100.0
Holdings                                    0.88               3.6
IV    Outstanding Purchases and Loans      SDR million           % of quota
Stand-by arrangements                      31.54             26.5
SAF arrangements                           26.39             22.2
ESAF arrangements                         141.69            119.2
v     Financial Arrangements
Amt. approved      Amt. Drawn
Type        Approval Date     Expiration Date      SDR Million    (SDR Million)
Stand by    March 2, 1994      March 1, 1995             47.56           30.91
ESAF        Nov. 21, 1988      June 2, 1992             144.67          144.67
Stand by    Oct. 26, 1987      Oct. 25, 1988             21.28           21.28
VI   Projected Obligations to the Fund (SDR million; based on existing use of
resources and present holdings of SDRs):
Overdue                              Forthcoming
06/30/94    1994        1995         1996        1997         1998
Principal           --         10.8        26.8        30.6         45.6        44.4
Charges/interest    --          1.7         3.2          3.1         2.8          1.4
TOTAL               --        12.6        30.0         33.7        48.4        45.8



98
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare the Credit                     16 months
2.    Initial discussions with IDA                         December 1993
3.    Pre-appraisal                                        August 1994
4.    Appraisal                                            January/February 1995
5.    Negotiations                                         April 1995
5.    Board Presentation                                   June 1995
6.    Planned date of effectiveness                        July 1995
7.    Expected project completion                          June 1997






IMAGING
Report No; P-   6611  SE
Type: PR



