Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18093
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL S]ECTOR ADJUSTMENT CfEDIT
(CREDIT 2738-SE)
June 29, 1998
Rural Development Operations III
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =     CFA Franc
1994   =     546.72
1995   =     499.64
1996   =     511.27
1997   -     582.96
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG-SECAL            Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
ASIP                Agricultural Sector Investment Program
CFAF                Currency of the Monetary Union of West African States
CFD                 Caisse.Franqaise de Developpement
CNIA                Groundnut Sector National Commiittee (CNIA, Coomite National
Interprofessionnel de I 'Arachide)
CPSP                Price Stabilization Agency (Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des
Prix)
CSS                 Senegal Sugar Company (Compagnie Sucriere Senegalaise)
EU                  European Union
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
LADP                Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
PIP                 Public Investment Program
PPSF                Producer Price Support Fund
SIMRIZ              Rice Infornation System
SODEFITEX           Cotton Development Agency (Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres
Textiles)
SONACOS             National Groundnut Oil Company (Societe Nationale de
Commercialisation des Oleagineux)
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1        December 31
Vice President    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director    Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager     Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader      Katrine Saito



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL S'ECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2738-SE)
Table of Contents
PREFACE.j
EVALUATION SUMMARY.1i
PART  I: PROGRAM  REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .................................................................I
A. INTRoDucTioN..
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES.                                                                                                                             2
C. ACIHEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES ......................................2........
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR IssuEs AFFECTING PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION .........................3
E. SUSTAINABILITY .                                                                                                                                11
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................................................                                                   12
G. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ...........................................................................                                             12
H. PR   OGRAM  OUTCOME ...........................................................................                                                12
I. FUTURE OPERATION ...........................................................................                                                   13
J. LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................................................                                                    14
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ...........................................................................                                       15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................................................................                                      15
Table 2: Related IDA  Credits ...........................................................................                                         17
Table 3: Program  Timetable ...........................................................................                                           18
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................................................ 18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Adjustment Program  Implementation .............................................................. 19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Adjustment Program  Implementation (suite) ................................................... 20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Program  Operation ...........................................................................                        21
Table 7: Studies Included in the Program ...........................................................................                              21
Table 8A: Program  Costs ...........................................................................                                              21
Table 8B: Program  Financing ...........................................................................                                          21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................................................                                 21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................................................                                   22
Table  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ....................................................................... 24
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs .................................................................                                         24
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions .................................................................                                             25
APPENDIX
ICR  Mission's Aide Memoire .................................................................                                                    26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPU]BLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SIECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(C]REDIT 2738-SE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit, for which credit 27380-SE in the amount of SDR 29.0 million (US$45 million
equivalent) was approved on June 6, 1995 and made effective on June 29, 1995. Two
supplemental credits in the amounts of SI)R 1.8 million (US$2.8 million equivalent) and SDR 1.3
million (US$1.8 million) were approved on December 12, 1995 and November 14, 1996,
respectively, and were both made effective on February 14, 1997.
The credit was closed, as planned, on June 30, 1997. The first tranche, released upon
effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 27, 1996; the second tranche was released on
December 6, 1996, and the credit was fully disbursed by March 10, 1997. Parallel financing for
the project was provided by the United Stated Agency for International Development, the Caisse
Fran9aise de Developpement, and the European Union.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Katrine Saito,' AFTR3, of the Africa Region and
reviewed by Jean-Paul Chausse, Sector Manager, AFTR3, and Mahmood Ayub, Country
Director, AFC 14. The Borrower and other financiers were sent a copy of the report. The
Borrower's comments have been incorporated into the ICR. No comments were received from
the other financiers by the due date.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in October 1997. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower participated in
the preparation of the ICR by contributings views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire.
The team members were Katrine Saito, T'ask Team Leader, Ismael Ouedraogo, and Dirk Prevoo
(AFTR3). Andrea Vasquez, Task Assistiant (AFTR3), provided support in the processing of the
report.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL ISECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2738-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I .    Deteriorating terms of trade, poor macro-economic policies, and an overvalued exchange
rate combined to cause a sharp deterioration of the economy in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
The Government adopted internal adjustment measures in 1994, followed by the devaluation of
the CFA franc (CFAF) in January 1994. With the goal of deepening reform so as to achieve
sustained agricultural growth, the Government and the donors agreed on a medium-term
adjustment program, in support of which the Government issued a Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy. This program was supported by four donors: the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the Caisse Frangaise de Developpement (CFD), the
European Union (EU), and IDA.
Program objectives
2.    The overall objective of the program was to promote sustainable growth in Senegal. It
included four key elements: (i) liberalizing domestic marketing and pricing of all agricultural
products, especially rice at both producer and consumer levels, and privatizing the processing of
rice, thereby eliminating subsidies in local rice production; (ii) reforming the agricultural trade
regime through the liberalization of external trade in those agricultural products still under
Government control by eliminating all prior authorizations for the import and export of these
crops (rice, vegetable oils, groundnut oil seeds, sugar, and wheat flour), determining appropriate
protective tariffs for these key agricultural commodities2, and (in the case of cotton and
groundnuts) linking domestic producer prices to world prices; (iii) privatizing the production,
processing and marketing of agricultural products in those sub-sectors still dominated by
parastatals, namely groundnuts and rice; and (iv) preparing a three year rolling investment
program for the agricultural sector, which respected clear sectoral priorities established in
consultation with donors.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The program partially achieved its objectives and its outcome is rated as satisfactory. It
exceeded expectations in the rice sub-sector, where reforms have been fully carried out. The
2   Special tariff protection was expected to move over time towards the level in the West African
Economic and Monetary Union.



- 111 -
liberalization measures related to rice have led to an increased choice and lower prices for
consumers, but also to lower local production, as Senegal's comparative advantage in rice
production is so weak that the CFAF devaluation was insufficient to reverse the situation. In the
cotton sector, measures were implemented that made the sector more efficient and producer
prices were increased and a support fund was set up. As a result, production is increasing again,
as are yields. Several measures were, however, not implemented by the Government. These
related mainly to the repayment of debt by the Government to thefiliere3 and the cession price of
cotton fiber to the domestic textile industry, where Government has interfered. In the groundnut
sub-sector, the project failed to privatize the National Groundnut Oil Company (SONACOS,
Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Oleagineux). Mechanisms were put in place,
however, to more closely align producer prices with world market prices. As most of these
measures are still relatively new, it is unclear what the production response will be (see also
paras. 21-22 of the main text). It is only in the sugar sector where the reform program failed to
achieve its objectives. The liberalization of sugar importation and marketing has failed to lower
consumer prices and elicit a production response. It has, however, set the stage for further
liberalization, once the contract with the Senegal Sugar Company (CSS, Compagnie Sucriere
Senegalaise) expires. The three-year rolling Agricultural Investment Programs have been
prepared as planned and increasingly reflect the shift in Government priorities.
4.     The sustainability of the reforms supported by the program varies depending on the sub-
sector. Clearly, the impact of the reforms on rice importing and marketing systems has been
profound and will be extremely difficult to reverse. These two systems have been completely
restructured and the private sector has taken over these activities. The dynamism of the private
sector in importing and domestic distribution is particularly striking. Regarding the groundnut
sector, as noted above, the reforms are incomplete. The restructuring and privatization of
SONACOS remain to be completed. There has been some progress in price liberalization and
farmers will be reluctant to relinquish their new role in determining producer prices. However,
the principal reforms in the sub-sector remain incomplete and no sustained production response is
likely until these are completed.  The reforms in the cotton sub-sector, particularly the
restructuring of SODEFITEX, are likely to be sustainable. The separating of the rural
development functions from other functions of SODEFITEX should result in a more streamlined
and efficient marketing system to the benefit of both farmers and the economy. In the sugar
sector, the CSS has lost all its monopolies. However, the level of protection for CSS sugar
remains at such a level that consumers have yet to gain from the reforms.
5.     Considering the depth of the reforms, performance of the Borrower was satisfactory
overall, despite some attempts to back track early on during the adjustment process. The Bank's
performance was also satisfactory, except for where it concerned its push for privatization of
SONACOS, while other donors involved in the groundnut sub-sector had already been pursuing a
different approach for some time.
6.     Actual costs expressed in US dollars are close to appraisal estimates, with USAID
financing US$30 million (same as planned), CFD US$18.3 million (US$20 million planned), EU,
US$40.3 million (US$30 million planned) and IDA US$47 million (US$45 million planned).
3   The Govermuent has stated in its letter of June 15, 1998, that debts to SODEFITEX related to the
cession price of cotton fiber to local textile manufacturers had been paid on December 31, 1997.



- iv-
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons learned
7.    No future agricultural sector adjustment credit is planned. However, reforms in the
edible oil sub-sector and the more efficient use of water resources in the Senegal Valley are a
high priority in the Government's agricultural development strategy and are also included in the
Policy Framework Paper supported by the IMF and the Bank. In addition, important sector
investment operations are planned for fiscal years 1999 and 2000 to build on the policy reforms
implemented and to elicit a supply response. There are two lessons4 to be learned from the
project:
(a)    Unambiguous consensus among donors and Government is essential in the successful
implementation of structural reforms. The greatest success of the program has been in
the rice sub-sector largely because donors and the Government have unambiguously
agreed on and supported a clearly-stated reform process. The Government eventually
went beyond the letter of the agreement in eliminating the rice marketing parastatal. On
the other hand, little progress has been achieved in solving the institutional problems of
the groundnut sub-sector, largely because a consensus has not developed among donors
and Government. Along the process, the Government changed its mind about selling
SONACOS's assets in pieces or in a block, and there emerged a divergence in vision
among the EU, USAID, and the Bank about the liberalization process of the sub-sector.
The Bank might has been wiser to delay privatization until a consensus had been built
among donors and Government.
(b)    Any transition process needs to be well planned with accompanying measures put in
place in order to prevent unwanted side effects of reform measures. Continuous
monitoring is needed to fine tune the reform process. In the case of his project, the
transition from rice imports controlled by Price Stabilization Agency to private sector
imports was not well planned, did not go smoothly, and consequently led to unnecessary
destabilization of national rice markets. Once needed corrective measures were taken,
things went fairly smoothly even under difficult world price conditions.
4   The Government suggested a third lesson: An adjustmnent program needs to be supported by a
targeted investment program in order to ensure the sustainability of the expected positive effects of
the reforms.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUJBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(4CREDIT 2738-SE)
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    During the late 1980's and early 1990's the Senegalese economy witnessed a sharp
deterioration. The depreciation of the dollar, large devaluations in competing countries, and a
continuing deterioration of the terms of trade aggravated the overvaluation of the CFA franc
(CFAF) to the point that the Government reversed trade liberalization policies. With the
prevailing exchange rate, most sectors lost their competitiveness, and, in the absence of a
currency realignment, it became necessary to resort to high tariff rates as a second best
instrument. The economy experienced a sharp contraction in key sectors, notably fishing,
phosphates, groundnuts and food proces,sing. To halt this deterioration, the Government adopted
stringent internal adjustment measures in 1993, followed in January 1994 by a devaluation of the
CFAF from 50 CFAF per French Franc (FF) to 100 CFAF per FF.
2.    The Government issued a Letter of Agricultural Development Policy (LADP) in August
1994, updated in 1995. The LADP presented a consensus among the Government, the private
sector and the donors, and formed the basis for the reform program supported by the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (AG-SECAL, Cr. 2738-SE). The donors involved in the three key sub-
sectors of Senegalese agriculture supported the program: the Government of France through the
Caisse Fran aise de Developpement (CFD) with regard to cotton; the European Union (EU) with
regard to groundnuts; and the Government of the United States (through USALD) with regard to
rice. These donors had commenced their support to sectoral reform before IDA5, as negotiations
on economic adjustment between IDA and the Government had broken down in the early '90s.
After the CFAF devaluation in January 1994, however, it became clear that there was an urgent
need for sustaining and deepening reforrns since the realigned exchange rate suddenly and clearly
exposed both the costs of structural distortions in the sector, as well as the opportunities for
expanded production for export and domestic sales that were now possible. Since the AG-
SECAL was signed several years after the agreement with the other donors, it was able to address
the key remaining post-devaluation policy issues, as well as reinforcing the ongoing reforms
supported by the other donors.
5   The agreement with the Government of France on cotton in 1992, with the European Union on
groundnuts in 1992, and with USAID on rice in 1994.



-2 -
B.    PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
3.    The overall objective of the Credit was to promote sustainable agricultural growth in
Senegal. To this end, the reform program supported by the credit included the following four key
elements:
(a) Liberalizing domestic marketing and pricing of all agricultural products, especially
rice at both producer and consumer levels, and privatizing the processing of rice,
thereby eliminating subsidies in local rice production;
(b) Reforming the agricultural trade regime through the liberalization of external trade
in those agricultural products still under Government control by eliminating all prior
authorizations for the import and export of these crops (rice, vegetable oils,
groundnut oil seeds, sugar, and wheat flour), determining appropriate protective
tariffs for these key agricultural commodities6, and (in the case of cotton and
groundnuts) linking domestic producer prices to world prices;
(c) Privatizing the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products in
those sub-sectors still dominated by parastatals, namely groundnuts and rice; and
(d) Preparing a three-year rolling investment program for the agricultural sector, which
respects clear sectoral priorities established in consultation with donors.
4.    The adjustment program was supported by other donors, using a mixture of fast-
disbursing and investment support. Total program funding was estimated at about US$134
million, of which about US$74 million in budget support and US$60 million in project, technical
assistance and institutional development support. Financing was to be provided by USAID (at
least US$31 million for budget support and investments), CFD (at least US$20 million), EU
(about US$30 million), and IDA (US$45 million).
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
5.    The program partially achieved its objectives. Reform measures in the rice sector were
fully carried out. The liberalization measures have led to an increased choice and lower prices
for consumers, but also to lower local production as Senegal's underlying comparative advantage
is so weak that the CFAF devaluation was insufficient to reverse the situation. In the cotton
sector, measures were implemented that made the sector more efficient. In addition, producer
prices were increased from 115 CFAF to 185 CFAF, which is close to the border price for seed
cotton, a Producer Price Support Fund (PPSF) was set up, and a profit sharing mechanism was
put in place giving farmers 40 percent of the net profits of the Cotton Development Agency
(Societt pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles, SODEFITEX). As a result, production is
increasing again, as are yields. It is not known what the impact of the measures was on
efficiency and costs. Several measures were, however, not implemented by the Government.
These related mainly to the repayment of debt by the Government to thefiliere and the cession
6   Special tariff protection was expected to move over time towards the level in the West African
Economic and Monetary Union.



-3 -
price of cotton fiber to the domestic textile industry.7 In the groundnut sector, the program failed
to privatize the National Groundnut Oil Company (SONACOS, Societe Nationale de
Commercialisation des Olkagineux). Mechanisms were put in place, however, to more closely
align producer prices with world market prices. As most of these measures are still relatively
new, it is unclear what the production response will be (see also paras. 21-22). It is only in the
sugar sector where the reform program failed to achieve its objectives. The liberalization of the
sugar importation and marketing has failed to lower consumer prices and to elicit a production
response. It has, however, set the stage for further liberalization, once the contract with the
Senegal Sugar Company (CSS, Compagnie Sucriere Senegalaise) expires. The three-year rolling
Agricultural Investment Programs have been prepared as planned and increasingly reflect the
shift in Government priorities.
D.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND) MAJOR ISSUES AFFECTING PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATION
6.    The credit supporting the AG-SECAL was approved on June 6, 1995, and became
effective on June 29, 1995. The first tranche was released upon effectiveness, and the second
tranche was released on December 6, 1996.
7.    Prior to effectiveness of the credit, a significant number of measures had already been
implemented that allowed the immediate disbursement of the first tranche, specifically:
(a) The setting up of an inter-ministerial committee to monitor program implementation.
(b) The liberalization of domestic marketing of rice at both the producer and the
consumer level. The Government-owned rice mill had been transferred to the private
sector. The recommendations of a study defining the new role and staffing of the
Price Stabilization Agency (Caisse de Pere'quation et de Stabilisation des Prix,
CPSP) had been accepted by Government, though not yet implemented.
Transportation subsidies for broken rice had been terminated.
(c) Preparatory studies had been undertaken on the restructuring of the sector;
SONACOS, with EU support, had started working on the definition of a mechanism
to link producer prices to world market prices.
(d) A new agreement had been reached between the Government and the Sugar
Company of Senegal (CSS, Compagnie Sucriere Senegalaise).
(e) The Government had proposed a mechanism defining the modalities (non-
quantitative measures) for protecting the domestic production of potatoes, onions,
and bananas.
7   The Govemnnent stated in its letter of Juriel 5, 1998, that debts to SODEFITEX related to the cession
price of cotton fiber to local textile manufacturers had been paid on December 31, 1997.



-4 -
(f) The Government had established action plans and time tables for the implementation
of the major actions, particularly the full liberalization of rice imports and the
privatization of the SONACOS.
The conditions for second tranche release were:
(a) The full liberalization of the import of broken rice and implementation of an import
levy on broken rice, which at no time would exceed a cumulative 50 percent of the
average Dakar cif price over the preceding two months;
(b) The complete elimination of CPSP's role in the importation and distribution of
broken rice and the closure of all of CPSP's warehouses and marketing facilities;
(c) Bringing SONACOS to the point of sale, namely (i) the issuance of invitations to
tender; (ii) the evaluation of the bids; (iii) the selection of a winning bidder(s); (iv)
the invitation of the bidder(s) to negotiate; and (v) the commencement of
negotiations;
(d) The elimination of all prior authorizations (except to the extent required for all
health, phytosanitary or environmental protection);
(e) Updating the three-year rolling investment program for the agricultural sector to be
submitted to donors for review; and
(f) satisfactory implementation of the third Lettre de Mission between the Cotton
Development Agency (SODEFITEX, Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres
Textiles) and Government and the signing of a fourth Lettre de Mission in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA.
The implementation experience regarding these conditions is reviewed in detail below.
(i)    The Rice Sub-Sector
8.    Reforms in the rice sector were first addressed by the USAID-supported Rice Sector
Adjustment Program (RSAP), which became effective in February 1994. The RSAP had three
tranches, and many of the reforms, which were conditions of IDA credit's first and second
tranches, had been accomplished before the AG-SECAL was signed (price liberalization and
privatization of rice mnills). The AG-SECAL helped the Government proceed, however, with the
most difficult parts of the reform program, particularly concerning CPSP's operations and the
opening up of rice imports to the private sector, as discussed below. The reforms of the rice sub-
sector were undertaken during difficult circumstances, when world prices of rice were increasing.
Prices for Asian broken rice (at least the Thai Al Special reference price) were substantially
above their average levels for almost two years-from late 1994 through mid-1996-just in the
middle of the transition phase to free market operations.
9.    The Government carried out the rice reform program faster and more completely than
foreseen in the AG-SECAL. While the program only foresaw the substantial reduction of the
functions played by the CPSP, the Government decided to close the parastatal down because of
the high costs it imposed on Government's budget.



-5 -
10.    The production of rice, particularly in the Valley, has declined dramatically since the
introduction of the reforms. Over the period 1993/94 to 1995/96 production in the Valley
declined from 166,000 mt to 102,000 rnt, with area planted declining from 36,000 ha to 25,000
ha, and yields also declining due to decreases in the intensity of input use. Administrative
problems in implementing the agreed upon protective tariff system, combined with suspected
fraud on the part of importers (overinvoicing of prices to qualify for lower import tariffs) and
declining world market prices have resulted in a weakening of producer incentives. Current
prices for local producers rose approximately 30 percent through 1996, but the net benefit was
lessened by the high increase in the average costs of purchased inputs (40-50 percent). In
addition, problems with the credit system have made access to working capital difficult, and
costly technical and managerial difficulties in maintaining the irrigated perimeters have increased
the cost of production.
11.    The most significant positive impact of the reforms was on the rice importing and
domestic marketing systems. These two systems have been completely restructured with the
departure of the CPSP from the sub-sector. Rice importing has become competitive with no
importer having more than a 20 percent market share. Furthermore, the source of origin of rice
imports has become much more varied, ranging from Indian to Brazilian to Vietnamese, in
addition to the favored Thai ("Siam") rice. The average real consumer price for broken rice is
now lower than four years ago prior to the devaluation. There is some evidence that wholesale
marketing margins have started to decline over time but with a wide range of rice from different
origins and in different quality levels, it is difficult to demonstrate this conclusively.'
12.    Another major efficiency gain was the decision by the Government not to hold rice
security stocks. Instead it agreed to the creation of a rice information system which would allow
it to be informed on market conditions and take any needed action. This unit-the Rice
Informnation System (SIMRIZ).-was created in July 1996 with financial support from USAID. It
is functioning reasonably well, and provides five different "information products" featuring
domestic and international market information to radio, television, newspapers, the Internet, and
a list of Government, donors, and private sector agencies/companies.
13.    The impact on the rice processing industry has been mixed. Small-scale huller business
has expanded, while profitability has been difficult for operators of more costly industrial and
semi-industrial scale mills. It is clear that prior to the reforms, there was significant over-
investment in processing facilities at the more capital-intensive end of the continuum.
(ii)    The Groundnut Sub-Sector
14.   In 1994, the EU had begun a program to restructure the sector, financed through the
Lome Convention. Two important measures were implemented under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program, prior to the .start of the AG-SECAL: (i) the removal of import controls
(except for health, phytosanitary and environmental considerations) on vegetable oil (September
1994); and (ii) removal of Government controls on consumer prices for vegetable oil (January
1995).
8   Government noted in its comments that margins have increased following liberalization at all levels,
especially at retail.



-6 -
15.   In principle, these measures have terminated the monopoly position of SONACOS in the
domestic market, allowing other enterprises to import and market vegetable oil for domestic
consumption. In practice, however, the import protection has been structured to make
competition with SONACOS very difficult. Raw oil is assessed a tariff of 26 percent and refined
oil a tariff of 48 percent plus a levy of 31.82 CFAF/kg. As a result, SONACOS not only receives
a high level of protection on domestically refined oil, but also has a substantial operating margin
for processing imported raw oil. Hence these reforms have yet to result in any real competition
for SONACOS in the domestic market for vegetable oil. Indeed, available import data for the
period 1990-1995 show minimal private sector imports of refined vegetable oil since 1994.
Increased competition will only come with a reduction of the import protection levied on refined
vegetable oil.
16.   Despite this disappointing response to the reforms, competition in the groundnut sector
has increased somewhat due to growth in the informal groundnut oil processing sector and the
production of confectionery groundnuts. However, they both still account for a small component
of the total market for groundnuts and groundnut oil. Confectionery groundnuts accounted for
only 9 percent of total groundnut production in 1996/97, and artisanal groundnut oil accounted
for 14 percent of domestic vegetable oil consumption in 1993/94. Nevertheless, the expansion of
these two activities offers a means to increase the level of competition in the sector, to the
advantage of producers.
17.   A groundnut producer price support system was adopted based on a proposal by the EU
and the CFD. This approach departs from that originally envisaged by the AG-SECAL in that it
is based on support for a pre-announced producer price administratively set close to export parity,
rather than a relatively low floor price. The adopted system thus requires active recourse to the
price support fund, which is either drawn down or replenished on an annual basis according to
the difference between the pre-announced producer price and the actual end-of-season producer
price. Responsibility for implementing this price mechanism has been conferred on the
Groundnut Sector National Committee (CNIA, Comite National Interprofessionnel de
l 'Arachide), a new institutional structure which comprises representatives of all groups within the
sector including: producers, traders, input suppliers, transporters and SONACOS. Government
thus retains influence on the process only indirectly through the latter. Another feature of the
system is that operating margins for SONACOS are periodically negotiated, which is not
conducive to sustained productivity improvements.
18.   First used to set producer prices for the 1995/96 season, although at that time without the
benefit of the price support fund, the system became fully operational by the end of 1997. The
immediate impact has been positive in that real producer prices have been increased and aligned
more closely with export parity prices (Table 1), thus satisfying the immediate objective of the
reforms espoused in the reform program. It has also given producers a much greater share of the
benefits of the CFAF devaluation; a result of cost reductions and improved efficiency at
SONACOS in response to the EU program of institutional support, and a more equitable
apportionment of export returns between producers and SONACOS.



-7 -
Table 1: Trends in Producer Prices and Protection
Unit    91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97
Nominal Protection                  3.56    3.03    0.72    0.89    0.99    0.92
Coefficient
Real Producer Price    FCFA/kg        99    114    108    120    122    127
(1995=100)             _________
19.   While these changes are positive and encouraging, they are only a beginning. There is
still a considerable margin for efficiency improvements in domestic marketing and processing
activities, that could be shared by producers and consumers. It is too soon to tell whether the
increased real producer prices will elicit a sustained production response (see Table 2).
Table 2: Groundnut Production: 1991-1997
1990/91   1991/92  1992/93   1993/94  1994/95   1995/96  1996/97
Oil                          =-       ___   ___ _
Production (000 mt)    679       727      552      602       678      791       588
Area ('000 ha)         886      842       926      739       893      841       856
Yield (kg/ha)          766      829       596      820       759      940       687
Confectionery            .
Production (000 mt)     24       27        27       26        40       37        58
Area ('000 ha)          28       29        31       25        36       40        64
Yield (kg/ha)          866      964       870     1011      1114      913       914
Total
Production (000 mt)    703      754       579      628       718      828       646
Area ('000 ha)         914      871       957      764       929      881       920
Yield (kg/ha)          769      866       605      822       773      940       702
20.   The removal of Government controls on consumer prices and the termination of import
licensing requirements for vegetable oils has not led to any marked change in the level of
consumer prices (Table 3), which are still very high because of the protective tariff levied on
imported refined oil, or introduced an unacceptable level of price variability.  Further
rationalization of trade policy, as noted above, offers the best means to reduce consumer prices,
and so to avail consumers of the full benefits of market liberalization.
Table 3: Consumer Prices for Groundnut
Unit       1992      1993   1  1994      1995     1996       1997
Nominal  FCFA/kg        330        332  _   465       566       583        588
Real      ('95=100)     468   1  474         503      566       567        570



- 8 -
21.   The second tranche release condition related to the groundnut sub-sector was for
SONACOS to be brought to the point of sale. Together with USAID, IDA placed privatization of
SONACOS high on the AG-SECAL agenda for policy reform, viewing it as the key to reducing
Government intervention in the sector, and making it more competitive and market oriented. The
Bank and the EU differed, however, on the approach to be taken to SONACOS's privatization.
The EU supported a phased approach to privatization starting in 1994 with a program to improve
the financial structure of SONACOS accompanied by measures to improve management,
increase efficiency, and rationalize staffing levels. The next stage, programmed for 1995-96,
was to have involved separation and privatization of SONAGRAINES, a fully owned subsidiary
of SONACOS responsible for the primary marketing of groundnuts for delivery to SONACOS;
the termination of all seed related activities; and either a strengthening of the seasonal credit
program or its transfer to an appropriate financial institution.  With this separation and
rationalization complete, the final step envisaged was privatization of the core activities of
SONACOS. The Bank's approach called for the immediate privatization of SONACOS in its
existing form (with all ancillary activities and agencies). However, other than provision for
eventual privatization of SONAGRAINES, the AG-SECAL made no analysis or proposal on
whether further disaggregation or rationalization of SONACOS's activities was necessary, and, if
so, how it should take place. Block privatization was implicitly viewed as the basis for
subsequent rationalization and improvements in transparency, accountability and efficiency. The
lack of coordination between the donors coupled with Government's decision to privatize
SONACOS in its existing form had the unfortunate result of halting EU financial and technical
support for rationalization of the institutional structure, and USAID's support to the privatization
initiative.
22.   The Government, however, did bring SONACOS to the point of sale. Bids were received
by December 1996, as required, but were validly rejected as being unrealistically low. The Bank
agreed with Government that the latter had legally fulfilled the condition for second tranche
release of bringing SONACOS to the point of sale, even though negotiations with bidders were
unsuccessful. The process was restarted in 1997, in order to obtain a more acceptable offer.
(iii)   The Cotton Sub-Sector
23.   As a result of substantial deficits incurred by SODEFITEX, performance contracts
(Lettres de Mission) were signed between the company and Government. The third such
contract, signed in March 1992, served as the basis for the AG-SECAL reforms. The contract
focused on management reform-aiming to put the company on a commercial basis and to set
clear technical objectives-and stipulated the responsibilities of the Government vis-a-vis
SODEFITEX.
24.   Management reform  objectives for SODEFITEX included a substantial personnel
reduction, the restructuring of the company to separate the cotton production activities from the
rural development activities, the establishment of an analytical accounting system with separate
accounts for the two main subdivisions of the company (cotton and rural development), and
moving company headquarters to Tambacounda from Dakar. All have been or are in the process
of being accomplished, with the exception of moving the headquarters to Tambacounda. The
ICR mission could not obtain the necessary data to assess the impact of the reforms on
production costs.



-9 -
25.   Technical objectives were related to an increase in production, improved field level
performance and the institution of a flexible mechanism for the distribution of cotton rents and
producer price stabilization. Improved field-level performance was also expected, through
improved management of farmer markel:ing groups, the use of village-level "farmer auxiliaries"
in extension and input and product marlceting processes, and a clearer definition of contracting
arrangements with rural development paitners, research, rural roads, livestock, etc. Most of these
measures have been implemented.
26.    The flexible mechanism for distribution of the cotton rent and producer price stabilization
was at the heart of the risk management system. It has been set-up consistent with AG-SECAL
conditions, i.e., there is no direct Government involvement and the producer floor price is linked
to the world market price. The Producer Price Support Fund (PPSF) was to contain 20 percent of
the amount of the next year's forecasted crop multiplied by the floor price of the preceding year.
Initial funding for this fund was to come from CFD. However, the agreement for setting up this
fund was not signed until June 1997 and the initial funds had not yet been provided by the end of
1997. Concerning distribution of the cotton rent, the Lettre de Mission stipulates that net profit
margins are to be divided as follows: 40 percent to producers ( in terms of ristournes), 40 percent
to SODIFITEX, and 20 percent to the Government.9 In addition, in the case there are no positive
gross margins for two successive years, the management committee can re-examine the floor
price and the cost structure, and if it cannot make suitable changes in the floor price, it can make
other arrangements for deficit financing.
27.   Production and yields have responded positively to the increase in producer price from
115 CFAF in 1993/94 to 185 CFAF in 1996/97. Cotton production increased from 31,000 tons in
1995 to 50,000 tons in 1997, albeit less than planned.
Table 4: Cotton Production
1991    1992    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Area ('000 ha)             44       45       44      34      35      50      52
Yield (kg/ha)               1,117   1,067   887    844    896    731         962
Production ('000 tons)      52      48       39      29      31     38       50
Producer Price (CFAF/kg)    100     100      115    150    170    170        185
28.    Obligations of the Government under the Lettres de mission related to the repayment of
its debt to SODEFITEX, tax treatment, cost of electricity, transfer to the company of the property
it uses in the port of Dakar, employee personnel rights, removing the SODIFITEX obligation to
market non-cotton agricultural crops, and assistance to the company in its contracting
arrangements and operation of the PPSF and its Management Committee. These obligations,
however, have not been fully respected. The Government attempted to post representatives of the
The agreement says that 60 percent was to be divided equally between the company and the
Government, but the Government's share was later lowered to 20 percent.



- 10 -
domestic textile industry on the PPSF Management Committee, which was not part of the original
agreement. This attempt, together with non-adherence to the agreement that cession price to the
textile industry be based on the world price, and to the agreement to repay debts to the
company'°, as well as the failure to set up a Monitoring Committee, led the CFD to suspend
funding for two years between 1995 and 1997.
(iv)   The Sugar Sub-Sector
29.   Prior to the AG-SECAL reforms, a private company, CSS, had an absolute monopoly
over the production, importing and distribution of sugar. 'With this monopoly came various tax
and non-tax benefits, such as free use of water and land and exemption from import taxes. The
regulated sugar price was nearly twice as high as the international price, causing sizable transfers
of consumers to the CSS. In exchange, CSS was to ensure self-sufficiency in sugar in the long-
run. The inequity of this agreement became increasingly apparent during the early 1990's. CSS
was importing increasing quantities of sugar to meet local demand, while enjoying high rents
from its monopoly position.
30.   As part of the AG-SECAL reforms, a new agreement was signed in January 1995. It
stipulated the termination of all monopoly privileges on sugar cane production, imports,
processing and refining, and sugar distribution, the termination of all prior authorizations for
imports and their replacement with tariff protection, the termination of special fiscal and tariff
tax benefits accorded to CSS, a change in its status to that of a common law enterprise, and the
full liberalization of prices and margins in the sugar market. The new system of import
protection applies from 1995 to 2000, after which it expires. It is based on a series of minimum
reference prices based on the average guaranteed prices in the USA and the EU, which are
gradually declining, and the international spot price. Import taxes on imported raw sugar are
assessed as the difference between the reference price and the actual cif price. In addition, the
importer has to pay a 35 percent tax based on the reference price. The reference price in 1995
(270 CFAF/kg) provided a nominal tariff protection of 66 percent relative to the cif Dakar spot
price of 220 CFAF/kg. In principle, this system of gradually declining reference prices (from
270 CFAF/KG in 1995 and 1996 to 256 CFAF/kg in 2000) should reduce effective protection,
thus providing modest benefits to consumers. In practice CSS has retained the right to adjust
these reference prices upwards annually in the event that Government changes the costs of
wages, energy or chemicals. Thus, instead of 267 CFAF/kg, the reference price was set to 279
CFAF/kg in 1997. Actual trends in consumer prices are presented in Table 5 below.
Table 5: Trends in Sugar Prices
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Nominal               340    340    439    445    491    550
Constant 1995 prices    482    485    474    445    478    533
31.   Real prices declined steadily from 1992/93 through the end of 1995. This trend was not
unduly affected by the devaluation. A period of pronounced price increases and price instability
then followed the application of the new convention in November 1995. For the period January
1995 to June 1997, the new arrangement resulted in a 24 percent increase in nominal consumer
10  See also footnote 7.



-11 -
prices, which corresponds to a 14 percent increase in real prices. In contrast world market prices
were fairly stable. The expected beniefits for consumers have thus failed to materialize. Low
income households have been most affected by this increase as their budget share for sugar is
higher (12-13 percent compared to 7--8 percent for non-poor households). Consumers do have a
wider choice of brands and quality as a result of the import liberalization, but as most of the
imported refined sugar is of higher quality than that of CSS, and thus more expensive, this has
been of little benefit to low-income households.
(v)    Agricultural Sector Investment Program
32.   The AG-SECAL conditionality called for an updated rolling Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP) to be submitted to donors for review. The ASIP differs from the
three-year rolling Public Investment Program (PIP) in presenting a more comprehensive longer-
term view of the perceived requirements for agricultural sector development. As such, it
encompasses many initiatives which are not included in the PIP (roads, credit, input supply,
subsidy payments, literacy programs, etc). It places considerable emphasis on increasing private
sector participation, with about 35 percent of the program to be financed from credit lines and
private sector contributions. The Government submitted the ASIPs as planned for review to the
donors. The proposed 1998-2000 ASIP is presently being discussed by Government and the
donors. The latest update substantially reduces the commitment to rice production and shows a
significant increase in the support for livestock and livestock products, and for horticulture and
fruit. This reflects Government's miedium-term goal to create a more diversified agricultural
sector, with a greater emphasis on high value-added products.
E.    SUSTAINABILITY
33.   The sustainability of the reforms supported by the AG-SECAL varies depending on the
sub-sector. Clearly, the impact of the reforms on rice importing and marketing systems has been
profound and will be extremely difficult to reverse. These two systems have been completely
restructured and the private sector has taken over these activities. Its dynamism in importing and
domestic distribution is particularly striking. Regarding the groundnut sub-sector, as noted
above, the reforms are unfinished. The restructuring and privatization of SONACOS, and the
lowering of domestic protection, key elements of the program, remain to be completed. There
has been some progress in price liberalization and farmers will be reluctant to relinquish their
new role in determining producer prices. However, a sustained production response is unlikely
until reforms are completed. The impact on consumers has been negligible. The reforms in the
cotton sub-sector, particularly the restructuring of SODEFITEX, are likely to be sustainable. The
separating of the rural development finctions from other functions of SODEFITEX should result
in a more stream-lined and efficient marketing system to the benefit of both farmers and the
economy.  However, the current system  is still a regulated national monopoly open to
manipulation and inefficiencies. Further progress would depend on permitting other companies
to compete against SODEFITEX. Achievements in the sugar sector have been so minor that
sustainability is not an issue. The ASIP has become a useful tool for Government and donors,
and is likely to be continued.



- 12 -
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
34.   The Bank's performance at the preparation and appraisal stages was satisfactory. The
preparation time needed for this credit attests to the difficult nature of discussions with
Government and with donors. Efforts were made to ensure that the reform package was
sufficiently rigorous yet realistic, and also that the ongoing reform programs supported by other
donors were adequately reinforced. Given the many years of disagreement with Government this
was an achievement in itself.
35.   During program implementation, the Bank regularly conducted supervision missions.
The release of the second tranche was approved in December 1996. Staff argued that the key
condition of "bringing SONACOS to the point of sale" was fulfilled since bids had been
submitted, but rejected as unsatisfactory. This was not supported by USAID staff, who would
have preferred to have held out for actual sale of SONACOS. Subsequent efforts by USAID to
privatize SONACOS have not been successful either.
36.   Areas where additional efforts were warranted are: (i) the reforms in the groundnut
sector, where the reliance placed on the privatization of SONACOS at the expense of other
reform measures to improve the efficiency of the sector has proven to be excessive. Also Bank
supported reforms undercut ongoing efforts supported by the EU, which had a different strategy
for SONACOS' privatization. EU strategy, which was not inferior to that supported by the Bank
was stalled. As a result, the sector remains in public hands with little meaningful restructuring
and consequent poor performance. There remains to this day a fundamental difference in
approach to the reform of the groundnut sector between donors, to the detriment of sector
performance.
G.    BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
37.   The Borrower's performance was mixed. There were several areas of confusion. The
Government gave mixed signals initially in the rice sub-sector, where occasional interventions in
the market of the Ministry of Commerce (by stipulating trading margins and requiring certain
authorization depending on trading status), together with problems in implementing the import
prelevement, caused some disruption in the market. However, the Government's decision to
abolish CPSP exceeded the conditionality of the AG-SECAL and was definitely of benefit to both
the sector and the economy as a whole. In the cotton sub-sector, the Government did not fully
respect the agreement outlined in the third Lettre de Mission, related to the management of the
PPSF and the cession price of fiber to the domestic textile industry. Government's performance
in the ground nut and sugar sub-sectors was poor, as it used import tariffs as a means to preserve
the status quo. The ASIPs have been prepared as agreed upon and increasingly reflect the shift in
Government priorities.
H.    PROGRAM OUTCOME
38.   Overall, the program's outcome has been satisfactory. The greatest success of the
program has been in the rice sub-sector where reforms have been carried out to the letter of the
agreement and beyond. This has not induced increased rice production, nor was it expected to,
given the inherent weakness of the underlying comparative advantage of rice production in the



- 13 -
Valley, and lower than expected levels of tariff protection and resulting paddy prices.
Consumers, however, have benefited from a more liberalized domestic rice market in terms of
variety of sources, quality, and prices of rice. In the future any positive supply response will
come from diversification into crops other than rice and from improved quality of domestic rice
production to meet certain urban consumer demands.
39.   In the groundnut sub-sector there has been little progress either in sustainable
productivity increases or in solving the complex institutional problems of the sector. The sector
remains in public hands and Government intervention is still a significant influence on sector
activity. There has been some progress in liberalizing the domestic prices of locally produced
groundnut oil, and in establishing a market-linked mechanism to determine producer prices
independent of Government intervention. As a result, producer prices have increased, but
because of the high protection of locELIly refined oil, consumers have not benefited and are
continuing to pay high prices for edible oil.
40.   A similar situation exists in the sugar sub-sector, where progress has been limited, as a
result of exorbitant tariff protection thait has failed to yield lower consumer prices. A domestic
production-response did not incur either because CSS has not used its monopoly rent to increase
productivity.
41.   Cotton is an intermediate case. It demonstrates that adjustment and liberalization can take
place within a more administered structure if certain basic economic management principals are
observed. The Government is no longer interfering in the sales price of cotton fiber to the
domestic textile industry, and prospects look encouraging for the sub-sector. However, the
definitive answer will only be revealed over the next few years. As a result of the new system,
producers have received increased prices that are closer to world market levels. It is unclear what
the direct impact has been on the consumer of textiles, given the many actors between the
production of fiber and textiles.
42.   The regular updating of the ASIP as planning tool is now integrated into the work
program of the Ministry of Agriculture and there is increased relevance between it and the
Government's strategy for the sector. It has been a beneficial instrument to improve donor
assistance to the sector.
I.     FUTURE OPERATION
43.   No future agricultural sector adjustment credit is planned. However, reforms in the
edible oil sub-sector and the more efficient use of water resources in the Senegal Valley are a
high priority in the Government's agricultural development strategy and are also included in the
Policy Framework Paper supported by the IMF and the Bank. In addition, important sector
investment operations are planned for fiscal years 1999-2000 to build on the policy reforms
implemented and to elicit a supply response.



- 14 -
J.    LESSONS LEARNED
44.   There are two lessons that can be learned from the implementation of the AG-SECAL
reforms: 1'
(a) Unambiguous consensus among donors and Government is essential in the successful
implementation of structural reforms. The greatest success of the program has been in
the rice sub-sector largely because donors and the Government have agreed on and
supported a clearly-stated reform process. The Government eventually went beyond the
letter of the agreement in eliminating the rice marketing parastatal. On the other hand,
little progress has been achieved in solving the institutional problems of the groundnut
sub-sector largely because a consensus was not developed among donors and
Government. Along the process, the Government changed its mind about selling
SONACOS's assets in pieces or in a block, and there emerged a divergence in vision
among the EU, USAID, and the Bank about the liberalization process of the sub-sector.
The Bank might have been wiser to delay privatization until a consensus had been built
among donors and Government
(b) Any transition process needs to be well planned with accompanying measures put in
place in order to prevent unwanted side effects of reform measures. Continuous
monitoring is needed to fine tune the reform process. In the case of his program, the
transition from rice imports controlled by Price Stabilization Agency to private sector
imports was not well planned, did not go smoothly and led to unnecessary destabilization
of national rice markets. Once needed corrective measures were taken, things went fairly
smoothly even under difficult world price conditions.
The Government suggested a third lesson: An adjustmnent program needs to be supported by a
targeted investinent program in order to ensure the sustainability of the expected positive effects of
the reforms.



- 15 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION PROJECT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL, SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2738-SN)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Attainment of Objectives    Substantial   Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
(v')         (/              /               /
Macro-economic policies       El                 -                        El
Sectoral policies                                                         []
Financial objectives          C
Institutional development     []            Q             El
Physical objectives                                       E C]            El
Poverty alleviation           r]                          C]              E
Gender issues                 El l]
Other social objectives       Eli           El            E
Environmental objectives      El           El             []
Public sector management      Eli          E:                             E
Private sector                              El            El              El
development
B. Project Sustainability         Probable          Improbable             Uncertain
V.)                   (/)                   (/)
El                                          El



- 16 -
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfactory     Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory
(/)                 (")                   (/)
Identification                0                                         C
Support for preparation      E                                           a
Appraisal                     El
Supervision                  E                                           a
Highly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory   Satisfactoy  Unsatisfactory
(/)          (/)          (/)
Highly
E. Assessment of results    satisfactory   Satisfactory     Fair          Poor
(E)          El)                          El)(



- 17 -
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Fiscal year
Loan/Credit                  'urpose                  of            Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Irrigation TA          Support to the financial and    1986        Completed
(Cr. 1632-SE)          institutional strengthening of the          December 31, 1988
Senegal River Valley Authority
Irrigation IV           Support to rehabilitation and  1988        Completed
(Cr. 1855-SE)          improved management of                      December 31, 1995
smallholder perimeters
Small Rural Operations II  Support to farrmers' groups with an  1989  Ongoing
(Cr. 1992-SE)          array of productive activities
Second Agricultural    Increase the generation of lower    1990    Completed
Research Project       risk technology to improve farmers'         December 31, 1996
(Cr. 2107-SE)          and herders' incomes in a
sustainable manner
Agricultural Services  Promotion of effective crop and  1990       Ongoing
(Cr. 2108-SE)          livestock extension services based
on results from 1988 and 1989 pilot
activities.
Following operations
Pilot Agricultural Export  Diversify and develop private  1998     The project was
Promotion (Cr. 3107-SE)  agricultural exports, a core              approved by Board
objective of the government's              on December 9,
export-led growth strategy.                 1997.
Agricultural Services and  Sustainable increase of small holder 1999  Under preparation,
Producer Organizations    agricultural productivity,               with appraisal
production and incomes, while              scheduled for June
protecting the environment.                 1998.
Community-based Rural   Develop a national rural       1999        Under preparation,
Infrastructure         infrastructure project based on             with pre-appraisal
demands from the community level.          scheduled for
September 1998.



- 18 -
Table 3: Program Timetable
Stages in project cycle     Estimated Date              Actual Date
Identification                                         April 26, 1993
Appraisal                        January/February
1995
Negotiations                     April 1995            April 19-25, 1995
Letter of Agricultural Policy                          April 1995
Board presentation               June 1995            June 6, 1995
Signing                                                June 26, 1995
Effectiveness                    July 1995             June 29, 1995
First tranche                    July 1995             June 29, 1995
Second tranche                                        December 6, 1996
Project completion               June 1997             June 31, 1997
Credit closing                   June 1997            June 30, 1997
Approval date of supplemental                                Actual Date
IDA Credit                                                                     l
Cr. 2738-1                                             December 12, 1995
Cr. 2738-2                                            November 14, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ millions)
FY94   FY95  FY96   FY97
MOP/Appraisal Estimate                                 25.0    25.0     45.0
Formally revised estimate                              25.0    25.0     45.0
Actual                                                    0    24.6     47.0
Actual as % of formally revised estimate                 0      98      105
Date of last disbursement:
Credit 2738-0:  December 27, 1996
Credit 2738-1:  March 3, 1997
Credit 2738-2:  March 10, 1997



Table 5: Key Indicators for Adjustment Program Implementation
Objectives                                           Actions to be Taken                                            Status
1. Domestic marketing and pricing   Satisfactory evidence that the prices and processing of paddy have been completely  Fully complied with.
policies                         liberalized including:
- Liberalize prices and marketing of
domestically produced agricultural    *  abandonment of Government administered paddy prices;
products
*  transfer of ownership and full private operation of SAED mills;
*  end of CPSP operations in domestic rice, and end to all subsidies.
*  elimination of transport subsidies and liberalization of retail margins of broken rice;
and abandonment of administered wholesale prices for broken rice.
*  effective implementation of SONACOS's announced program of purchasing
groundnuts at the factory fate at appropriate factory-gate prices.
2. Public Agricultural Investment   Government has prepared a three-year rolling investment program for the agricultural  Fully complied with
Program                          sector and submitted it to donors for review.
Improve the efficiency of public
investment and public resource
management.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Adjustment Program Implementation (suite)
Objectives                                             Actions to be Taken                                              Status
3. Trade Policies                    Full liberalization of imported rice markets through:                                 Fully complied with
- Promotion of efficient import
substitution by replacing        *  termination of CPSP's practice of negotiating procurement contracts with designated
quantitative restrictions with       private operators for the imports of rice (marche gre ca gre) and the establishment of an
protective tariffs.                  open and competitive procurement system, acceptable to IDA
*  full liberalization of imports of broken rice;
*  implementation of an import levy imposed on broken rice which will, at no time, exceed
a cumulative 46% of the average Dakar cif price over the proceeding two months.
*  abandonment of GOS administered consumer prices of imported rice.
*  definition of a system and level of tariff protection for imported broken and whole rice
Elimination of prior authorization for vegetable oil imports                         Fully complied with
Elimination of prior authorization for the imports of potatoes, onions and bananas   Fully complied with
originating from zones outside WAEMU and their replacement with protective tariffs which
will not exceed 30% of the cif Dakar prices.
Elimination of all prior authorizations (except to the extent required for health, phytosanitary  Fully complied with
or environmental protections) for the import of agricultural inputs.
4. Agricultural Parastatais
- Rice. Disengage the state from     Elimination of CPSP's role in the import and distribution of broken rice, and the closure of    .  Fully complied with.
commercial activities and promote role   all of CPSP's warehouses and marketing facilities.
of the private sector
- Groundnuts. Initiate and irreversible    The bringing of SONACOS to the point of sale. Specifically, the Government has: (i)  Partially complied with
privatization process of SONACOS,    carried out a valuation of the enterprise and prepared a prospectus or information
through:                             memorandum for the enterprise: (ii) solicited, directly or through advertisement (s) in
appropriate newspapers, offers from the private sector for the sale of all the shares held by
the Borrower and other public sector entities; (iii) evaluated offers received; (iv) GOS
rejected offers since they were unsatisfactory; (v) bid process has been restarted.
- Cotton. Restructuring of SODEFITEX   The implementation of the third Lettre de Mission between Government and SODEFITEX in  Fully complied with
accordance with its terms, and the preparation of a medium-term action plan, satisfactory to
IDA and meeting the objectives set forth in the program.



- 21 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Program Operation
Not defined in MOP
Table 7: Studies Included in the Program12
Study         Purpose as defined in Appraisal/Redefined    Status        Impact of the
I_______________ ____________________________________ _____________               Study
Land tenure        To institutionalize a process of improving land  Completed   Negligible
tenure practice by identifying measures which
Ican be put into operation in the short-term.
Table 8A: Program Costs
Component                           Appraisal Estimate             Latest Estimate
Not defined in MOP
Table 8B: Program Financing
(US$ millions)
Source of financing                 Appraisal Estimate             Latest Estimate
IDA                                       45.0                          47.0
CFD                                       20.0                          18.3
European Union                            30.0                          40.3
Federal Republic of Germany'3           6.0-12.0                         0.0
USAID                                     31.0                          30.0
Total                                    134.0                         135.6
Table 9: EcoiIomic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
12  IDA financed only.
13  Estimated at time of Board presentation of AG..SECAL, but not made available as part of program.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-        Section          Type of         Present        Original           Revised                       Description of Covenant                          Remarks
ment                          covenant         Status       Fulfillment       Fulfillment
Date              Date
C27380      3.01 (a)                                                                             The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.01 (b)                                                                            Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
_____. ____ _   ._________ _request.
3.01 (c)                                                                            Without limitation upon the provisions of para (a) of this
section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any
action taken under the Program, including any action
I____________                                                      _______________   specified in Schedule 2 to this agreement.
3.02                                                                                Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,                                     r ._
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this agreement.
3.03 (a)                                                                            The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices,
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.03 (b)(i)                                                                         The Borrower shall: (i) have the records & accounts
referred to in para (a) of the Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Assoc.
3.03 (b)(ii)                                                                        The Borrower shall: (ii) furnish to the Associations, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than 6 months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
I_________  ______________                                                            requested.
3.03 (b)(iii)                                                                       The Borrower shall: (iii) furnish to the Assoc. such other
information concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time



Agree-        Section           Type of         Present        Original           Revised                       Description of Covenant                           Remarks
ment                          covenant          Status       Fulfillment       Fulfillment
Date              Date
l_____________  _________________   __________                                        reasonably   request.
3.03 (c)(i)                                                                          For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain
or cause to be maintained, in accordance with para (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures.
3.03 (c)(ii)                                                                         The Borrower shall: (ii) retain, until at least one year after
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts. orders, invoices, bills.
receipts, and other documents, or customs certificates, as
l _________  _____________   ________________    _________   _______________    _______________    appropriate)  evidencing   such  expenditures.
3.03 (el(iibi                                                                         The Borrower shall: (iii) enable the Association's
ol (r)(iii)                                                                       representatives to examine such records.
3.03 (c)(iv)                                                                          The Borrower shall: (iv) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audits referred to in
para (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit                           N 1
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the SOE submitted during such FY, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Classification of agreements                                           Status
I     Accounts/audits                                                  C        Complied with
2      Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries       CD       Compliance after delay
3      Flow and utilization of Project Funds                           NC       Not Complied with
4      Counterpart funding                                             SOON   Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
5      Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency    CP       Complied with Partially
6      Environmental covenants                                         NYD    Not yet due
7      Involuntary resettlement
8      Indigenous people
9      Monitoring, review and reporting
10    Implementation
11     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12     Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13     Other



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Implementation of the project was in compliance with Bank Guidelines.|
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of project       Plannedl4             Revised              Actual
cycle                                                                     l
Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$
Up to appraisal    X-=                                           22.3    103,000
Appraisal                                                         1.5       3,900
Negotiations to Board                                             9.6      28,000
presentation                                                                     l
Supervision                                                      50.4    131,300
Completion                                                        1.4       4,300
Total                                                            85.20    373,500
14 Planned and revised data are not available for all years.



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Number                      Specialized       Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of        Days in         Staff Skills       tation         ment        Types of
Project Cycle       Year      Persons       Field         Represented          Status      Objectives    Problems
Preparation through   06/93'-/    1          6             SE                       n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Pre-appraisal                                        _
Appraisal             01/95       n.a.       n.a.          n.a                      n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
Supervision 1         11/95       13         12            PS, E                     S             S
Supervision 2         06196       6          17            E, C, PHS                 S             S
Supervision 3         10/96       7          26            E, PHS, 00, C             S             S
Completion            10197       4          15            SE (2), C (2)             S             S
S = Satisfactory; HS = Highly Satisfactory
Specialized Staff: E = Economist; SE = Senior Economist; PHS= Public Health Specialist; 00 = Operations
Officer; PS = Public Sector Specialist; C= Consultant
5   Prior to pre-appraisal two missions have visited the country. The length and specialties represented
was not available from files.



- 26 -
APPENDIX
MISSION DE PREPARATION DU RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION (RFE)
DU PROGRAMME D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE (PASA)
AU SENEGAL
13 OCTOBRE - 3 NOVEMBRE 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission de preparation du Rapport de fin d'execution du PASA a sejourne au
Senegal du 13 octobre au 3 novembre. Cette mission, conduite par Mme Katrine Saito
(AFTA3) etait composee de M. Abdoualye Seck (macro-economiste, Mission residente
de Dakar), M. David Wilcock (economiste ruralVFAO) et M. Garry Christensen
(economiste rural, consultant). La mission tient a exprimer sa gratitude a ses collegues du
ministere des Finances et du Plan et du ministere de l'Agriculture pour leur excellente
collaboration. Elle a egalement ben6fici6 de l'etroite collaboration des autres bailleurs de
fonds qui ont participe au programme, en particulier de l'USAID, de l'Union europeenne
et de la CFD.
2.    La mission a mesure les progres realises dans la poursuite des objectifs vises et la
mise en oeuvre des reformes appuyees par le PASA. En particulier, elle a evalue les
resultats: i) de la lib6ralisation de la commercialisation interieure et des prix du riz au
producteur et au consommateur, ainsi que de la privatisation de son usinage; ii) de la
reforme du regime du commerce des produits agricoles - liberalisation du commerce
exterieur des produits agricoles sous controle de l'Etat (riz, huiles vegetales, arachide,
sucre et farine de froment); iii) de la privatisation de la production, de la transformation
et de la commercialisation des arachides et du riz; et iv) de la restructuration de la
SODEFITEX. En outre, la mission a evalue l'impact socio-economique des reformes,
dans la mesure permise par les donnees dont elle disposait. Elle a procede A des echanges
de vues avec les cofinanciers sur leur perception du programme et du processus de
reforme. Les principales lecons concernant la validite de la conception et du choix des
reformes ont et examinees, et des propositions ont ete presentees pour le reste du
programme de reforme.
3.    Une reunion de synthese s'est tenue au ministere des Finances et du Plan, en
presence de representants du ministere des Finances et du Plan et du ministere de
l'Agriculture. Au cours de cette reunion ont e  presentees et discutees les conclusions
provisoires de la mission. Ces conclusions ont donne lieu A un accord g6neral. Elles
etaient les suivantes:
Le PASA a donne des resultats mitiges. Ces resultats devront etre examines
separ6ment pour chaque sous-secteur.



-27 -
*  Le programme a enregistre son succes le plus vif dans le sous-secteur rizicole, ou les
reformes ont ete executees a la lettre de l' accord et au-dela. Curieusement, cela n' a
pas debouche sur les resultats atltendus concemant la production de riz, par suite de la
faiblesse de I'avantage comparalif de la production de riz dans la region du fleuve et
des niveaux de protection tarifaire plus faibles que prevu et des prix qui en sont
resultes pour le paddy. A l'avenir, la reaction esperee de l'offre viendra probablement
de la diversification au profit d'autres cultures et de la stabilisation de la production
de riz dans les regions oui les agriculteurs pourront enregistrer durablement les
meilleurs resultats financiers.
*  Dans le sous-secteur arachidier, les progres reels ont et6 limites, que ce soit dans
l'accroissement de la production ou sa stabilisation A son niveau actuel ou dans la
recherche de solutions aux problemes institutionnels complexes que connait ce sous-
secteur. Les progres realises graice aux efforts consacres par l'Union europeenne A
reorganiser la production ne scnt pas encore tangibles, car les graves problemes
d'orientation (concernant notamment la structure A venir de la SONACOS et les
niveaux de protection accordes aux huiles vegetales) n'ont pas encore e  resolus. I1
est essentiel de disposer d'une strat6gie, ne serait-ce qu'a titre provisoire, pour que les
premiers signes de reprise dans le sous-secteur arachidier ne soient pas vains. I1 est
clair egalement qu'il n'existe pas de solutions faciles; on ne peut preserver les
inefficacites et les rentes de situation alors meme que l'on cherche A soutenir
efficacement les nouveaux marches nationaux, r6gionaux et mondiaux des huiles
alimentaires. Des choix difficiles s'imposent.
*  Le coton offre un exemple de situation intermediaire. I1 montre que l'ajustement et
des mesures de liberalisation modifiees peuvent efficacement se concr6tiser dans un
sous-secteur beaucoup plus reglemente, A condition que soient respectes certains
principes fondamentaux de gestion economique (ce qui semble certainement etre le
cas dans d'autres pays producteurs de coton d'Afrique de l'Ouest appartenant A la
zone franc). Les perspectives semblent encourageantes pour ce sous-secteur, mais il
est essentiel que le producteur soit convenablement remunere.
Un certain nombre de lecons se degagent de la conception et de la mise en oeuvre
des reformes du PASA dans le contexte 6conomique et politique du Sen6gal. Elles
peuvent se resumer de la facon suivante:
* Contrairement a ce qui s'etait passe pour les reformes precedentes, le Gouvemement
s'est engage serieusement A mener A bien le programme de reforme du PASA. I1
importe que le gouvemement, les bailleurs de fonds et la societe civile examinent de
pres les resultats, afin d'en tirer les vraies lecons qui s'en degagent.



- 28 -
*  La Banque mondiale a joue un r6le determinant dans le processus de reforme,
notamment dans la mobilisation de l'appui de multiples bailleurs de fonds et du
gouvemement aux reformes des les premieres annees de conception du programme.
En outre, la signature de l'accord de pret au PASA a probablement contribue pour
beaucoup a persuader le gouvemement de rester ferme dans sa determination a mener
a bien le programme de reforme en resistant aux fortes pressions politiques qui
s'exergaient en sens inverse;
*  La Banque et l'UE auraient pu, toutes deux, participer plus activement aux efforts en
vue de mieux definir le cadre de politique et de strategie pour la poursuite des progres
dans le sous-secteur arachidier, en particulier lorsque le gouvemement a decide de ne
pas fractionner les actifs de la SONACOS, mais plut6t de les vendre comme un tout. .
*  Le passage de la CPSP au secteur prive pour l'importation du riz n'a pas et bien
prepare ; il ne s'est pas fait en douceur, et a debouche sur une destabilisation qui
n'etait pas necessaire des marches nationaux de cette denree. Une fois prises les
mesures correctives, la transition s'est poursuivie sans heurts, malgre des cours
mondiaux defavorables. La le9on qui se degage de cette experience, c'est qu'il est trks
important de bien planifier la transition et les mesures d'accompagnement si l'on veut
que les grandes reformes se deroulent convenablement.
-  Lors de la conception et de la mise en oeuvre du PASA, il n'a pas et accorde
suffisamment d'attention au suivi de l'impact general des reformes sur les
consonmmateurs senegalais. Cela se remarque particulierement pour le sucre et la
farine de froment, qui ont connu des hausses de prix difficiles A expliquer, et encore
plus A justifier.
Sur la base des conclusions de la mission, il a ete convenu que Mtm" Saito
preparerait la premiere version du RFE A Washington, et la soumettrait A l'examen des
autres bailleurs de fonds et du gouvemement; la version definitive devrait etre prete d'ici
A la fin de l'annee. La preparation de la Partie II par l'emprunteur a egalement et
discutee, et des suggestions ont ete formulees sur sa presentation et son contenu.
La mission remercie vivement ses partenaires au Senegal de leur sympathique et
efficace cooperation.



