Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 2738 SE
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 9, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2738 SE
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit), dated June 26, 1995 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of 
urgently needed imports required during the execution of the Borrower’s program 
designed to achieve structural adjustment in the agricultural sector (the Program);
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a further 
agreement, dated February 15, 1996, (the Amending Agreement), whereby the Association 
has agreed to increase the financing made available under the Development Credit 
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000);
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one million three eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,300,000 1,800,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
Page  2
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
addition of a new paragraph (j) reading as follows:
"(j) Second Amending Agreement means the second agreement 
amending the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower 
and the 
Association, dated June 26, 1995 and the Agreement 
Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement, dated February 15, 
1996;”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty two 
million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 
32,100,00030,800,000) (the Credit), which 
includes: (a) an original amount 
in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-nine million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 
29,000,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) an 
additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000) (the 
Additional Financing); and (c) an additional amount in various 
currencies, 
equivalent to one million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 1,300,000) (the Second Additional 
Financing).”
Section 1.03. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by substituting “SDR 17,900,000 16,100,000” by “SDR 19,200,000 17,900,000” in 
sub-paragraph (a).
Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6.  After a date twelve months from the date of the Second 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made and no 
commitment 
shall be entered into to pay amounts to, or on the 
order of, the Borrower in 
respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Additional 
Financing.  At any time 
after such date, the Association may, by notice to 
the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional 
Financing 
from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of 
this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President 
Africa
