Page  1
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2738 SE
                        Development Credit Agreement
                   (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated  June 26, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2738 SE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated  June 26, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 21, 1995, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to promote the
sustainable growth of its agriculture sector (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution; and
       (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
Page  2
       (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to
read:
             "'Project' means the imports and other activities
       that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
       pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
       Development Credit Agreement.";
       (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
             "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing
       Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
       between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
       shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
       such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
       reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
       referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit
       Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
       Association of their respective obligations under the
       Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
       purposes of the Credit.";
       (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
       (d)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
             "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
       otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on
       account of expenditures in the territories of any country
       which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
       in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
       for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
       for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
       knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
       of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
       VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)    "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower;
       (b)   "CPSP" means the Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix, 
established under the laws of the Borrower;
       (c)   "Point of Sale" means, with respect to SONACOS, that the Borrower has (i) 
carried out a valuation of the enterprise and prepared a prospectus or information 
memorandum for the enterprise, (ii) solicited, either directly or through 
advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers, offers from the private sector for the 
sale of all the shares held by the Borrower and other public sector entities in such 
enterprise, and (iii) evaluated offers received and selected a successful bidder(s), 
if any, in accordance with the procedures for
award adopted by the Borrower in conformity with sections III.3(3) and IV of the 
Program, and invited the successful bidder(s) to enter into negotiations;
       (d)    "Program Action Plan" means the action plan set out in Annex IV to the 
Program;
       (e)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
January 2, 1991, and March 5, 1991, between the Borrower and the Association;
       (f)    "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986);
       (g)    "SODEFITEX" means the Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres
Textiles, established under the laws of the Borrower;
Page  3
       (h)    "SONACOS" means the Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des
Oleagineux, established under the laws of the Borrower; and
       (i)    "Third Lettre de Mission" means the Lettre de Mission, dated March 16, 
1992, between the Borrower and SODEFITEX.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty nine million Special Drawing Right (SDR 
29,000,000).
       Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
       (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
       Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one -half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable emiannually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2005 and ending May 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, theAssociation may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not
Page  4
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so 
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in 
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment 
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment 
of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a)above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                            Particular Covenants
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
       (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                   of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
                   with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                   by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
             (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
                   case not later than six months after the end of each such
                   year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
             (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
                   said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
                   Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                   reflecting such expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                   last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                   records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                   other documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate)
Page  5
                   evidencing such expenditures;
             (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                   records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                   annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
                   and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                   the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                       Additional Event of Suspension
       Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
       Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09(a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministere de l'Economie,
               des Finances et du Plan
             Rue Charles Laine
             B.P. 4017
             Dakar
             Senegal
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINIFINANCES               3203G
                   Dakar
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  6
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                   By  /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
                                                   Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By  /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                      Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds in accordance with the table set forth below.
                                     Amount of the
                                   Credit Allocated          % of
                                     (Expressed in       Expenditures
   Category                         SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)    Goods                          28,650,000        100% of foreign
                                                        expenditures
(2)    Refunding of                      350,000        Amount due pur-
       Project Preparation                              suant to Section
       Advance                                          2.02 (b) hereof
                                     ___________
           TOTAL                      29,000,000
                                      ==========
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means: (a) 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and (b) if 
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or 
services.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this schedule in 
respect of:
       (a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or subgroups, 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
          Group           Subgroup          Description of Items
          112                --             Alcoholic beverages
          121                --             Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                            refuse
          122                --             Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                            or not containing tobacco
                                            substitutes)
Page  7
          525                --             Radioactive and
                                            associated materials
          667                --             Pearls, precious and
                                            semiprecious stones, unworked  or
                                            worked
          718             718.1             Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts thereof, fuel elements
                                            (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                            nuclear reactors
          728             728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
          897             897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                            platinum group metals
                                            (except watches and watch cases)
                                            and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                            wares (including set gems)
          971                --             Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                            gold ores and concentrates)
       (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied
from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also 
that of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the 
territory of such other country;
       (c)   payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for expenditures, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
5,800,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after February 15, 1995;
       (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
       (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
       (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption.
3.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent may be required by the Association 
upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify.
4.     No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 16,100,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program, (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have been taken, and (c) that the Borrower's macro-economic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.     If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                                 Procurement
Part A:      General
Page  8
       Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Schedule, as 
applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
2.     Goods procured in accordance with this Part B shall be subject to pre-shipment 
inspection, provided however that such inspection shall not apply to price.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
       Goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract may
be procured:
1.     by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures 
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such 
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the 
Association; and
2.     by other purchasers:
       (a)   under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
             procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
             3.6 of the Guidelines; or
       (b)   in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines,
             under direct contracting procedures in accordance with the 
             provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
             Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1
                              to this Agreement
1      The Borrower has, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Program Action 
Plan and Annex I of the Program: (a) fully liberalized the import of broken rice; (b) 
implemented a levy on the import of broken rice set at no more than 46% of the average 
Dakar cif price, in CFA Francs, over the relevant preceding two months; and (c) 
eliminated CPSP's role in the import and distribution of broken rice and ensured that 
all of CPSP's warehouses and marketing facilities have been closed.
2      The Borrower has brought SONACOS to the Point of Sale.
3      The Borrower has eliminated all prior authorizations for the import of 
agricultural inputs (except to the extent required for health, phytosanitary and 
environmental protection) in accordance with section III.2 of the Program.
4      The Borrower (a) has updated its three-year rolling public investment program 
for the agricultural sector in accordance with section III.4 of the Program, and (b) 
has delivered such updated program to the Association.
5      The Third Lettre de Mission has been implemented in accordance with its terms, 
and the Borrower has adopted a medium-term action plan for the cotton sector, 
satisfactory to the Association, meeting the objectives set out in paragraph 5 of the 
Page  9
Program Action Plan.
