CREDIT NUMBER 2738-1 SE
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated              s , 1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2738-1 SE
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT          DIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           -                            1996, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit) dated June 26,
1995 (the "Development Credit Agreement"), for the purpose of assisting in the financing
of urgently needed imports required during the execution of the Borrower's program
designed to achieve structural adjustment in the agricultural sector (the "Program");
(B)    the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made available
under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter lia, of the foregoing, to
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by
the addition of a new paragraph (j) reading as follows:
"(j) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the Development
Credit Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower
and the Association, dated June 26, 1995."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to
read as follows:


﻿-2-
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,800,000) (the "Credit"), which includes: (a) an
original amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,000,000) (the "Initial Financing"); and (b) an additional
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000) (the "Additional Financing").
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "cancelled" the following prviso reading:
"and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue from a
date sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by
deleting the words "Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement".
Section 1.05. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is
amended by substituting "SDR 16,100,000" by "SDR 17,900,000" in sub-paragraph (a).
Section 1.06. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement:
"6. After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending Agreement, no
withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts
to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE H
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing,
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2,03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not
been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            iAdV k-
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


