Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBERS 3680-VN and 4781-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(AMENDING AND RESTATING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT) 
 
(System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization, and Renewables Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 13, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3680-VN and 4781-VN 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
August 
13, 
2010 
entered 
into 
between                
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”). 
(A) WHEREAS the Association had agreed to extend to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement dated 
October 24, 2002 between the Recipient and the Association, a credit in an amount 
equivalent to one hundred seventy seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 177,900,000) (variously, “Original Credit” and “Original Financing”) to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 2 to said Agreement (“Original 
Project”) (as amended to the date of this Agreement, “Original Financing Agreement”); 
(B) WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional 
financing to finance completion of Original Project activities given an unanticipated 
financing gap, and modified activities given that the Original Financing amount is 
insufficient to cover such activities; and 
(C) WHEREAS the Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient such 
additional financing on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend 
and restate the Original Financing Agreement as amended to date to read as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
a credit in an amount equivalent to one hundred seventy seven million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 177,900,000) 
(variously, “Original Credit” and “Original Financing”); and 
(b) 
a credit in an amount equivalent to seventeen million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
17,600,000) (variously, 
“Additional Credit” and “Additional Financing”) 
(the Original Financing and the Additional Financing, collectively, “Financing”) 
to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are: 
(a) 
in respect of the Original Financing, June 15 and December 15 in each 
year; and 
(b) 
in respect of the Additional Financing, February 15 and August 15 in 
each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amounts of the Original and the Additional Credits shall be repaid 
in accordance with the repayment schedule set forth in Sections I and II, 
respectively, of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Parts 2 (c) and 3 (c), (d), (e), and (f) of the 
Project through the MOIT and cause Parts 1, 2 (a) and (b), and 3 (a) and (b) of 
the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entities as follows, 
namely, Parts 1, 2 (b) (ii) with respect to EVN, and 3 (a) and (b) (i) by EVN, 
Parts 2 (a) and (b) (i) and 3 (b) (ii) in its respective coverage area and 2 (b) (ii) 
with respect to Northern Power Corporation by Northern Power Corporation, 
Parts 2 (a) and (b) (i) and 3 (b) (ii) in its respective coverage area and 2 (b) (ii) 
with respect to Southern Power Corporation  by Southern Power Corporation, 
and Parts 2 (a) and (b) (i) and 3 (b) (ii) in its respective coverage area and 
2
(b) 
(ii) with respect to Central Power Corporation by Central Power 
Corporation, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf 
of the Recipient and each of the Project Implementing Entities. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreements have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Recipient and each of the Project Implementing Entities and are 
legally binding upon the Recipient and the respective Project Implementing 
Entity in accordance with their terms. 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State 
Bank of Vietnam.
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Lý Thái T
Hà N
i
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
 412248 
  (84-4) 
3825-0612 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Hanoi, Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Alain Barbu 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to: (a) enhance electricity 
system efficiency in Vietnam; (b) provide electric power in selected rural areas of 
Vietnam; and (c) sustain reform and institutional development of the Recipient’s energy 
sector. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
1. 
Transmission System Efficiency Improvement
(a) 
(i) 
Construction of new, and upgrading of selected existing, 500 kV 
and 220 kV transmission systems, including related substations 
and associated connections, and installation of 110 kV 
capacitors; 
 
(ii) 
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons under Part 1 (a) (i) of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
(A) preparation of design and bidding documents under, 
and
 
management of, Part 1 (a) of the Project; (B) improvement of 
maintenance work on transmission systems constructed or 
targeted under Part 1 (a) (i) of the Project; and (C) design and 
implementation of a joint stock company model for hydroelectric 
power. 
(b) 
Enhancement of electricity system efficiency, including introduction of a 
pilot direct load control program, conducting of load research, carrying 
out of demand-side management program planning and implementation, 
and promotion of energy-saving lighting systems. 
2. 
Rural Energy Access Improvement
(a) 
(i) 
Construction of new, and rehabilitation and upgrading of 
selected existing, 110 kV distribution systems, including related 
substations, and installation of associated capacitors, in rural 
areas; and 
 
(ii) 
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons under Part 2 (a) (i) of the Project. 
Page  8
7
(b) 
(i) 
Rehabilitation of selected existing small hydroelectric power 
plants, and construction of small alternative power-generating 
systems; 
 
(ii) 
capacity building of the Project Implementing Entities with 
respect to: (A) preparation and operation of generation systems 
constructed or targeted under Part 2 (b) (i) of the Project through 
provision of training in advanced small hydroelectric 
technologies, performance-based contracting methods, 
construction management and supervision, and small generation 
systems control and management; and (B) evaluation of policy 
and approach in relation to renewable energy and use of power 
generated from renewable energy sources. 
(c) 
Development of small renewable energy systems in rural areas, 
including: 
 
(i) 
carrying out of Subprojects through the provision of RARE 
Grants; and 
 
(ii) 
capacity building of the MOIT, local governments, communities, 
and non-governmental organizations with respect to 
implementation of Subprojects. 
3. 
Sector Reform and Institutional Development
(a) 
Institutional development of EVN, including with respect to: 
(i) 
financial, accounting, and materials management information 
systems; (ii) public utility technology and management; and 
(iii) financing and planning, particularly for purposes of ongoing 
restructuring. 
(b) 
Provision of support t
o
EVN’s equitization program in the generation 
and distribution sub-sectors, including: 
 
(i) 
provision of technical assistance to EVN in relation to associated 
transactions, and training to EVN and newly established power 
distribution joint stock companies, including in corporate 
governance and securities markets operation; and 
Page  9
8
(ii) 
upgrading of selected existing power distribution systems in 
rural areas in anticipation of equitization. 
(c) 
Development of an institutional, policy, and regulatory framework for 
renewable energy projects, including: 
 
(i) 
elaboration of legal instruments promoting renewable energy 
electrification in rural areas and development of a market for 
small power producers, carrying out of renewable energy 
awareness activities, and provision of training in planning and 
implementation of renewable energy projects; 
 
(ii) 
preparation of, and provision of training for implementation of, a 
Renewable Energy Development Project, establishment of 
transparent and streamlined approval and contractual processes 
for small power investments in renewable energy, provision of 
business development services to prospective small power 
investment developers, and implementation of measures to 
facilitate financing of such investments; and 
 
(iii) 
carrying out of resource and market assessments and technology 
improvements, and promotion of locally manufactured 
renewable energy products. 
 
(d) 
Strengthening of Project financial management through the provision of 
technical assistance, including for purposes of the carrying out of audits. 
(e) 
Institutional development of ERAV, including design and deployment of 
an information technology system, elaboration of a regime of tariffs, 
charges, subsidies, and fees for participation in a competitive power 
market, preparation of a regulatory framework for such power market, 
including market rules, power grid, metering, and distribution codes, 
power purchase agreements, and dispute resolution and enforcement 
mechanisms. 
(f) 
Institutional development of the gas sector, and the MOIT in this regard, 
including through the provision of technical assistance, particularly with 
respect to sector reform to complement further power market 
development. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
Ministry of Industry and Trade
1. 
The Recipient shall be responsible for Project coordination, implementation, and 
monitoring and evaluation through the MOIT in accordance with the following 
institutional arrangements. 
Provincial Project Steering Committee
 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain, through each Project Province, throughout Project 
implementation, the respective Provincial Project Steering Committee, 
comprising the Vice Chairman of the respective P
rovincial People’s Committee 
as chair, and representatives of, inter alia, the Provincial Industry Department, 
the Provincial Planning and Investment Department, the Provincial Finance 
Department, the Provincial Power Service Department, the Provincial 
Agriculture and Rural Development Department, and the Provincial Department 
of Science, Technology, and Environment, and with an institutional framework, 
functions, and resources, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be required for 
purposes of Project implementation. 
3. 
The Recipient shall be responsible for the coordination and oversight of Part 2 (c) 
of the Project at the provincial level through the respective Provincial Project 
Steering Committee, and which responsibilities shall include, inter alia: 
(i) preliminary approval of Subproject feasibility studies and RARE Grant 
proposals and their transmittal to the MOIT Project Management Board (PMB) 
for final approval; and (ii) ensuring budget allocations for and payment of 
provincial contributions to Subproject costs, resettlement compensation costs, 
and administrative costs relating to Subproject implementation. 
MOIT Project Management Board
 
4. 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the MOIT 
Project Management Board, headed by a qualified and experienced officer, 
reporting directly to the MOIT Minister or an MOIT Vice Minister, with an 
Page  11
10
institutional framework, functions, and resources, satisfactory to the Association, 
including competent staff in adequate numbers, as shall be required for purposes 
of Project implementation. 
5. 
The Recipient shall be responsible for the coordination and oversight of Part 2 (c) 
of the Project at the national level and the implementation of Part 3 (c) (f) of the 
Project through the MOIT Project Management Board, and which responsibilities 
shall include, inter alia: (i) provision of support to, and coordination and 
supervision of, the operations of Provincial PMUs; (ii) final approval of RARE 
Grant proposals; (iii) appointment of contractors and consultants to carry out 
Subprojects; (iv) approval of payments to such contractors and consultants for 
expenditures incurred under Subprojects; (v) annual review of the financial 
performance of Subprojects and preparation of annual status reports on the 
matter; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation of Subproject impacts in each Project 
Province. 
Provincial Project Management Units
 
6. 
The Recipient shall maintain, through each Project Province, throughout Project 
implementation, the respective Provincial Project Management Unit, headed by a 
director with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and with an institutional framework, functions, and resources, 
including competent staff in adequate numbers, satisfactory to the Association, as 
shall be required for purposes of Project implementation. 
7. 
The Recipient shall be responsible for implementation of Part 2 (c) of the Project 
through the respective Project Province, and which responsibilities shall include, 
inter alia: (i) appointment of a consultant for preparation of bidding documents 
and provision of support to the respective Project Province in bid evaluation; 
(ii) supervision of contractors in procurement and construction work; and 
(iii) supervision of consultants providing support to Local Electricity Utilities in 
Subproject operation, maintenance, and management. 
Local Electricity Utilities
 
8. 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the respective 
Local Electricity Utilities, with an institutional framework, functions, and 
resources, including competent staff in adequate numbers, satisfactory to the 
Association, as shall be required for purposes of Project implementation. 
9. 
The Recipient shall be responsible for Subproject operation, maintenance, and 
management under Part 2 (c) of the Project through the respective Local 
Page  12
11
Electricity Utilities, and which responsibilities shall include, inter alia: 
(i) provision of support to the respective Project Province in the preparation of 
Subproject proposals, including related feasibility studies; (ii) organization and 
facilitation of power connections, (iii) mobilization of local contributions to 
Subproject costs; and (iv) operation and maintenance of Subproject facilities. 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreements
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entities
’
Respective 
Parts of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the 
Additional Financing available to each of the Project Implementing Entities 
under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and each of the Project 
Implementing Entities (“Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreement”), under 
terms and conditions approved by the Association, which shall include: 
 
(a) 
repayment of the proceeds of the Additional Financing (i) by EVN over a 
period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years, 
and (ii) by Northern Power Corporation, Southern Power Corporation, 
and Central Power Corporation over a period of twenty-five (25) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of seven (7) years; 
 
(b) 
payment of interest on the principal amount of the Additional Financing 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time under the respective 
Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreement (i) by EVN at the rate of 5.9 
percent per annum, and (ii) by Northern Power Corporation, Southern 
Power Corporation, and Central Power Corporation at the rate of 0.75 
percent per annum; 
 
(c) 
payment of a service charge on the principal amount of the Additional 
Financing withdrawn and outstanding from time to time under the 
respective Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreement by Northern 
Power Corporation, Southern Power Corporation, and Central Power 
Corporation at the rate of 0.25 percent per annum; 
(d) 
payment of a commitment charge on the amount of the Additional 
Financing remaining un-withdrawn from time to time under the 
respective Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreement at a rate equal to 
that payable by the Recipient pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
the obligation to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients 
of loan proceeds other than the Recipient; 
Page  13
12
(f) 
the obligation to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan, and to not, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree in writing, assign, amend, abrogate, 
or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof; 
(g) 
the obligation to ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and 
services required for the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2, as said provisions may be 
further elaborated in the Procurement Plan; and 
(h) 
the obligation to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines for Transmission and 
Distribution Subprojects, the EIAs, any environmental management 
plans, the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement, and 
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, the RAPs, any additional 
resettlement action plans, the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities 
Development Plan, the 
EMDPs
,
and any additional ethnic minorities 
development plans, and to not, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree in writing, assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be 
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree in writing, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreements or any of their provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Manual 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
MOIT Operational Manual for Renewable Energy, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, 
or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or 
any provision thereof. 
Page  14
13
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of such Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the latter shall prevail. 
E. Subprojects
 
General
1. 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association, through the MOIT, for comment 
and approval, the RARE Grant proposal for each Subproject. 
 Eligibility
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that no Subproject is eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Financing unless the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria 
specified below and in further detail in the MOIT Operational Manual for 
Renewable Energy, which shall include, inter alia, the following:  
 
(a) 
the Subproject has been initiated by and for the benefit of the respective 
local communities; 
(b) 
the respective Local Electricity Utilities have been duly established and 
have the legal power to participate in the Project in accordance with the 
terms and conditions herein set forth and enter into a Subproject 
Agreement with the MOIT and the respectiv
e
Provincial People’s 
Committee, and a legal opinion has been furnished to the Association 
confirming the same; 
 
(c) 
the Subproject is a specific community-based hybrid renewable energy 
grid project which is technically and financially viable, environmentally 
and socially sound, and economically justified on the basis of the number 
of people benefiting from it; 
 
(d) 
the Subproject is in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Recipient relating to public utilities, health, safety, 
and environmental and social protection; 
(e) 
(i) an analysis of the environmental effects of such Subproject has been 
prepared; and (ii) if applicable, an environmental impact assessment, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been undertaken and mitigation 
measures designed on the basis of environmental standards acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with the Environmental Procedures;  
Page  15
14
(f)  
a resettlement action plan has been prepared in accordance with the 
Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation 
of Project Affected Persons and such plan has been approved by the 
Association, if the proposed Subproject involves resettlement of Affected 
Persons, and an independent institution, acceptable to the Association, 
has been engaged under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association 
to monitor the implementation of such plan; 
(g) 
an ethnic minorities development plan has been prepared in accordance 
with the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities Development Plan and 
such plan has been approved by the Association, if the proposed 
Subproject involves communities with Ethnic Minorities, and an 
independent institution, acceptable to the Association, has been engaged 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association to monitor the 
implementation of such plan; and  
 
(h) 
the Subproject does not: (i) include expenditures intended for a military 
or paramilitary purpose; (ii) include works for government 
administration or religious purposes; (iii) relate to the manufacture or use 
of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos and pesticides), 
arms, or drugs; or (iv) include the financing of salaries 
of
the Recipient’s 
civil service. 
 
Subproject Agreements
3. 
For purposes of Subproject implementation, operation, and maintenance, the 
Recipient shall, through the MOIT, enter into a Subproject Agreement with the 
respective Provincial People’s Committee and the respective Local Electricity 
Utilities, in accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Association and as set out in the MOIT Operational Manual for Renewable 
Energy, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
a description of the Subproject, its budget, and the applicable 
performance indicators; 
(b) 
the obligation of the respective Provincial People’s Committee and the 
respective Local Electricity Utilities to: (A) maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources, and 
expenditures related to the Subproject; and (B) at the request of the 
Recipient, or the Association, have the records relating to the Subproject 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
Page  16
15
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, and promptly furnish the records as so audited to the 
Recipient and the Association; 
(c) 
the obligation of the respective 
Provincial People’s Committee and the 
respective Local Electricity Utilities to carry out the Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Recipient; 
(d) 
the obligation of the respective Provincial People’s Committee and the 
respective Local Electricity Utilities to carry out the Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of: (i) the MOIT Operational Manual for 
Renewable Energy, including the Environmental Procedures, the Policy 
Framework for Compensation, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons, and the Policy Framework for Ethnic 
Minorities Development Plan; (ii) any environmental impact assessment 
for the Subproject and any related mitigation measures; (iii) any 
resettlement action plan for the Subproject; and (iv) any ethnic minorities 
development plan for the Subproject, and to not, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree in writing, assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof;  
(e) 
the right of the Recipient, through the MOIT, and of the Recipient in its 
own right, to obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the 
RARE Grant then withdrawn, as the case may be, upon failure by the 
Provincial People’s Committee or the Local Electricity Utilities to 
perform any of its obligations under the Subproject Agreement. 
(f) 
The respective Provincial People’s Committee shall: 
(i) 
finance, jointly with the respective Local Electricity Utilities or 
other investors, at least twenty percent (20%) of the total costs of 
the Subproject and, in the event of the inability of any of the 
respective Local Electricity Utilities to contribute its share, 
guarantee the contribution of at least twenty percent (20%) of the 
total costs of the Subproject; 
(ii) 
require that the Provincial PMUs carry out the Subprojects with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, managerial, technical, and public utility 
practices and sound environmental and social standards; and 
Page  17
16
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and 
other resources required for the Subproject; 
(iii) 
require that the Provincial PMUs maintain adequate records and 
accounts to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect 
of the Subproject; 
(iv) require 
that: (A) the goods, works, and consultants’ services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the RARE Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy; and (B) such goods, works, and services shall be used 
exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(v) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent 
with sound business practice to cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation, and delivery of goods financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely usable by the respective Project Provinces to replace or 
repair such goods;  
(vi) 
inspect by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association 
if the Association shall so request, such goods, sites, works, 
plants, and construction included in the Subproject, and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(vii)  
obtain all such information as the Recipient or the Association 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations, and financial condition of the 
Subproject, and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject; 
(viii)  establish and thereafter maintain throughout Subproject 
implementation an escrow account to receive contributions to be 
made by the respective Local Electricity Utilities to finance in 
part the costs of insurance and major repairs needed for the 
respective Subprojects; and 
(ix) 
be responsible for the major repairs and rehabilitation needed for 
the Subproject. 
Page  18
17
(g) 
The respective Local Electricity Utilities shall: 
(i) 
contribute, jointly with the respective Project Provinces or other 
investors, at least twenty percent (20%) of the total costs of each 
Subproject, such contribution to be made in cash or in kind, or a 
combination thereof; 
(ii) 
obtain all permits and licenses and / or rights necessary to carry 
out the operation and maintenance of the Subproject;  
(iii) 
operate and maintain the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, managerial, technical, engineering, public utility, and 
occupational safety practices and sound environmental and 
social standards and in accordance with the provisions of the 
MOIT Operational Manual for Renewable Energy;   
(iv) 
collect, from the respective electricity consumers, tariffs 
sufficient to ensure coverage of administration, ordinary 
operation, and maintenance of the Subproject;  
(v) 
enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the facilities 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(vi) 
enable the Recipient and the Association to obtain all such 
information as they shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing and to the administration, operations, and financial 
condition of the Subproject and, if appropriate, to the benefits to 
be derived therefrom; and 
(vii) 
not: (A) assign or transfer, in whole or in part, any of its 
obligations under the Subproject Agreement; or (B) sell, lease, 
transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of any property or assets 
financed with the proceeds of the RARE Grant; and 
(h) 
The Recipient shall, through the MOIT: 
(i) 
finance up to eighty percent (80%) of the total costs of each 
Subproject (excluding the cost of land) out of the RARE Grant; 
Page  19
18
(ii) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, such goods, the 
sites, works, and construction included in the Subproject, the 
operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
(iii) 
provide support to the respective Project Provinces and 
participating Local Electricity Utilities in the areas of 
procurement, disbursement, and financial management; 
(iv) 
suspend or terminate the right of the participating Local 
Electricity Utilities to benefit from the proceeds of the RARE 
Grant upon failure by such Utilities to comply with any of their 
obligations under the Subproject Agreement; 
(v) 
exercise its rights in relation to the Subproject Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Association, comply with its obligations under this Agreement, 
and achieve the purposes of the Project; and 
(vi) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate, or waive any of the provisions of the 
Subproject Agreement. 
F. Safeguards 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Procedures, any 
environmental impact assessments for Subprojects and instruments setting out 
any related mitigation measures, any resettlement action plans for Subprojects, 
any ethnic minorities development plans for Subprojects, the Environmental 
Guidelines for Transmission and Distribution Subprojects, the EIAs, any 
environmental management plans, the Policy Framework for Compensation, 
Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, the RAPs, any 
additional resettlement action plans, the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities 
Development Plan, the EMDPs, and any additional ethnic minorities 
development plans. 
2. 
Wherever required in terms of the Environmental Procedures, the Policy 
Framework for Compensation, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of Project 
Affected Persons, or the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities Development 
Plan, the Recipient shall, for the purposes of any Subproject, and prior to 
implementation thereof, proceed to have an environmental impact assessment 
Page  20
19
and instruments setting out any related mitigation measures, a resettlement action 
plan, and / or an ethnic minorities development plan, as the case may be, 
(a) 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
(b) 
except as otherwise agreed with the Association, submitted to the 
Association for review and approval, and 
(c) 
thereafter, adopted and locally disclosed. 
3. 
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, 
compile, and submit to the Association, as part of the Project Reports, 
information on the status of compliance with the Environmental Procedures, any 
environmental impact assessments for Subprojects and instruments setting out 
any related mitigation measures, any resettlement action plans for Subprojects, 
any ethnic minorities development plans for Subprojects, the Environmental 
Guidelines for Transmission and Distribution Subprojects, the EIAs, any 
environmental management plans, the Policy Framework for Compensation, 
Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, the RAPs, any 
additional resettlement action plans, the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities 
Development Plan, the EMDPs, and any additional ethnic minorities 
development plans, providing details of: 
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of such instruments; 
 
(b) 
any conditions which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth 
implementation of such instruments; and 
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
4. 
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any such instrument and those 
of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its Respective 
Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part of 
Page  21
20
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one (1) calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
No. Indicator 
1. 
Number of households electrified through off-grid or mini-grid systems 
installed under the Project 
2. 
Number of off-grid community mini-systems installed 
3. 
Issuance of government documents establishing sustainable mechanism for 
decentralized off-grid rural electrification, and functioning of off-grid rural 
electrification facility 
4. 
Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions on account of renewable energy-
based production (Tons of carbon emissions prevented) 
5. 
Provision of training to sixty-five (65) ERAV staff 
6. 
Establishment by ERAV of five (5) effective tariff and generation market 
regulations 
7. 
Soundness of ERAV ability to assess effectiveness of and improve 
regulations and implementation procedures 
8. Soundness 
of 
pr
ocedures for effective implementation of tariff and market 
regulations 
9. 
Effectiveness of ERAV processes for information collection and monitoring 
10. 
Issuance of all tariff, market, and technical code regulations 
11. 
Establishment by ERAV of five (5) market and technical procedures each 
12. 
Establishment of roadmap for gas sector reform 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  22
21
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, and cause each of the Project 
Implementing Entities to prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for its Respective Part of the Project covering the quarter, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Page  23
22
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consulta
nts’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(c) Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following tables specify the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category” or “Categories”), the 
Page  24
23
allocations of the amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage 
of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
I. Original 
Financing 
Category 
Amount of the Original 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Expenditures for works 
for the Project 
Implementing Entities’ 
Respective Parts of the 
Project incurred prior to 
August 17, 2009 
 
(a) EVN 
 
(b) Northern Power 
Corporation 
 
(c) Southern Power 
Corporation 
 
(d) Central Power 
Corporation 
 
7,744,000 
 
109,000 
 
4,063,000 
 
1,253,000 
100% 
(2)  Expenditures for goods 
for the Project 
Implementing Entities’ 
Respective Parts of the 
Project incurred prior to 
August 17, 2009 
 
(a) EVN 
 
(b) Northern Power 
Corporation 
 
(c) Southern Power 
Corporation 
 
(d) Central Power 
Corporation 
 
78,586,000 
 
17,588,789 
 
18,252,122 
 
10,436,000 
 
100% 
Page  25
24
 
(e) 
PC 
ng Nai
 
(f) PC H
i
D
ng
 
1,808,878 
 
2,092,211 
(3)  Expenditures for 
c
onsultants’ Services for 
the Project 
Implementing Entities’ 
Respective Parts of the 
Project incurred prior to 
August 17, 2009 
 
(a) EVN 
 
(b) Northern Power 
Corporation 
 
(c) Southern Power 
Corporation 
 
(d) Central Power 
Corporation 
 
2,691,000 
 
0
0
0
100% 
(4)  Expenditures for 
Training for EVN’s 
Respective Part of the 
Project incurred prior to 
August 17, 2009 
 
0
100%
(5)  RARE Grants for 
Part 2 (c) (i) of the 
Project  
 
940,000 
100% of amounts 
disbursed 
(6)  Goods, works, non-
consulting services,  
consultants’ services 
(including for audits), 
Training, and Operating 
Costs for the 
Recipient’s Respective 
Part of the Project 
(except Part 2 (c) (i) of 
the Project) 
 
2,220,000 100% 
Page  26
25
(7)  Expenditures for goods, 
works, non-consulting 
services, 
consultants’ 
services (including for 
audits), Training, and 
Operating Costs for the 
Project Implementing 
Entities’ Respective 
Parts of the Project 
incurred on or after 
August 17, 2009 
 
30,116,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
177,900,000 
II. Additional 
Financing 
Category 
Amount of the 
Additional Financing 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, 
consultants’ services 
(including for audits), 
Training, and Operating 
Costs for the Recipient’s 
Respective Part of the 
Project (except 
Part 2 (c) (i) of the 
Project) 
 
3,070,000
 
100%
(2) RARE Grants for 
Part 2 (c) (i) of the Project 
 
1,270,000
 
100%
of amounts 
disbursed 
 
(3) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, 
consultants’ services 
(including for audits), 
Training, and Operating 
Costs for the Project 
Implementing Entities’ 
13,260,000
 
100%
Page  27
26
Respective Parts of the 
Project 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
17,600,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
under the amount of the Original Financing for payments made prior to 
the date of the Original Financing Agreement, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 17,100,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) and (2) as set out in said Agreement on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date, but after 
April 10, 2002; or 
(b) 
under the amount of the Additional Financing for payments made prior 
to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Association for approval, no later than November 30
 
of 
each year, the annual work plan and budget for its Respective Part of the 
Project for the following year of Project implementation, of such scope 
and detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(b) 
thereafter, ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in 
accordance with such plan and budget as approved by the Association. 
B. Annual 
Reviews 
The Recipient shall review jointly with the Association and the Project 
Implementing Entities, no later than one (1) month after its transmittal to the 
Association, each Project Report furnished to the Association, and thereafter take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of 
the Project and the achievement of the objective of the Project, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of such Report and the Association’s views on 
the matter. 
Page  28
27
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Section I. 
Original Credit  
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Original 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2012 to and 
including June 15, 2022 
 
1
commencing December 15, 2022 to and 
including June 15, 2042 
 
2
Section II. 
Additional Credit 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Additional 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing August 15, 2020 to and 
including February 15, 2030 
 
1.25 
commencing August 15, 2030 to and 
including February 15, 2045 
 
2.50 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  29
28
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreement” means, separately, each of the 
agreements referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant 
to which the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Additional 
Financing available to each of the Project Implementing Entities, and “Additional 
Financing Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, all such agreements. 
2. 
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of Project implementation, 
had or would have his: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, or 
interest in any house, interest in or right to use any land (including premises and 
agricultural and grazing land), or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or any 
other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; 
(iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or 
(iv) business, occupation, work, place of residence, or habitat adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all such 
persons. 
 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Central Power Corporation” means the Recipient’s enterprise, established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decision No. 739/QD-BCT, dated 
February 5, 2010, and Central Power Corporation’s charter, as adopted in due 
course. 
5. 
“Central Power Project Management Board” or “CPPMB” means EVN’s entity, 
responsible for EVN’s projects in the central part of the Recipient’s territory. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means: (a) except as provided in subparagraph (b) 
below, the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010; and (b) in the case of contracts financed or to be 
financed, in whole or in part, out of the proceeds of the Original Financing, and 
for which the invitation to bid was issued prior to the date of this Agreement, 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999. 
Page  30
29
7. 
“Demand Side Management Board” or “DSM Board” means EVN’s entity, 
responsible for EVN’s demand side management activities. 
8. 
“Electricity Regulatory Authority of Vietnam” or “ERAV” means the Recipient’s 
entity, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decision 
No. 258/2005/QD-TTg, dated October 19, 2005, responsible for the regulation of 
the Recipient’s electricity sector. 
9. 
“Environmental Guidelines for Transmission and Distribution Subprojects” 
means the Project Implementing Entities’ guidelines, adopted by EVN through 
its Instruction No. 5461/CV-EVN-KHCNMT and VT, dated November 2, 2004, 
agreed with the Association for purposes of implementation of Transmission and 
Distribution Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), as such assessments may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association, 
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such guidelines. 
10. 
“Environmental Impact Assessments” or “EIAs” means, collectively, the Project 
Implementing Entities’ assessments, dated March 2002, adopted by EVN through 
its Decision No. 2252/CV-EVN-HTQT, 
dated 
May 27, 2002, agreed with the 
Association and setting out the potential environmental impacts of the Project 
Implementing Entities’ Respective Parts of the Project, as such assessments may 
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Association, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such 
assessments, and “EIA” means any one (1) of such assessments. 
11. 
“Environmental Procedures” means the Recipient’s guidelines, adopted by the 
MOIT through its Decision No. 1253/QD-KHDT, dated May 27, 2002, and set 
out in the MOIT Operational Manual for Renewable Energy (as hereinafter 
defined), agreed with the Association for purposes of carrying out environmental 
assessments of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), and such term includes any 
annexes or schedules to such procedures. 
12. 
“Ethnic Minorities” means social groups disadvantaged in the development 
process and with a social and cultural identity distinct from those which 
constitute the predominant ethnic group in Vietnam. 
13. 
“Ethnic Minorities Development Plans” or “EMDPs” means, collectively, the 
Project Implementing Entities’ plans, agreed with the Association in accordance 
with the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities Development Plan for purposes 
of avoidance, minimization, or mitigation of, or compensation for, any adverse 
effects on Ethnic Minorities associated with, and ensuring culturally appropriate 
social and economic benefits for Ethnic Minorities under, the Project 
Implementing Entities’ Respective Parts of Project, as such plans may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association, 
Page  31
30
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plans,
 and “EMDP” 
means any one (1) of such plans. 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
15. 
“kV” means kilovolt. 
16. 
“Local Electricity Utility” means the village, commune, district, or multi-district-
level entity responsible for the construction, or oversight of the construction, 
operation, maintenance, and expansion as needed, of the electricity generation 
and distribution systems at such level. 
17. 
“MOIT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Industry and Trade, or any successor 
thereto. 
18. 
“MOIT Operational Manual for Renewable Energy” means the Recipient’s 
manual, agreed with the Association for purposes of implementation of 
Parts 2 (c) and 3 (c) of the Project, including implementation responsibilities, 
procedures, guidelines, and criteria for the selection of Communes participating 
in the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Association. 
19. 
“MOIT Project Management Board” or “MOIT PMB” means MOIT’s entity, 
responsible for the management of the MOIT’s projects. 
20. 
“Northern Power Corporation” means the Recipient’s enterprise, established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decision No. 789/QD-BCT, dated 
February 5, 2010, and Northern Power Corporation’s charter, as adopted in due 
course. 
21. 
“Northern Power Project Management Board” or “NPPMB” means EVN’s 
entity, responsible for EVN’s projects in the northern part of the Recipient’s 
territory. 
22. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs under the Project, 
based on the annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section V.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section IV.A of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement as approved by the Association, and incurred by the Recipient or the 
Project Implementing Entities on account of utilities and supplies, bank charges, 
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space 
rental, building and equipment maintenance, public awareness-related media 
expenses, travel and subsistence, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, 
Page  32
31
but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses of members of the 
Recipient’s civil service
.
23. 
“Original Financing Subsidiary Agreement” means, separately, each of the 
agreements pursuant to which the Recipient has made part of the proceeds of the 
Original Financing available to each of the Project Implementing Entities, and 
“Original Financing Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, all such 
agreements. 
24. “
PC 
ng Nai
”
means Power Company 
ng Nai
,
the Recipient’s enterprise, 
established and operating pursuant to PC 
ng Nai
’s charter, dated June 3, 1999. 
25. “PC 
H
i
D
ng
”
means Power Company H
i
D
ng
,
the Recipient’s enterprise, 
established and operating pursuant to PC H
i
D
ng
’s charter, dated 
February 2, 2005. 
26. 
“Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons” means the Recipient’s and the Project Implementing 
Entities’ framework, dated April 2002, adopted by the MOIT through its 
Decision Nos. 1253/QD-KHDT, dated May 27, 2002, and 641/QD-NLDK, dated 
February 2, 2005, pursuant to the Recipient’s Prime Minister’s Decision 
No. 407/QD-TTg, dated May 24, 2002, agreed with the Association and setting 
out policies, planning principles, eligibility criteria, asset valuation methods, a 
grievance redress mechanism, entitlements, the legal framework, and institutional 
arrangements for the compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Association. 
27. 
“Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities Development Plan” means the 
Recipient’s and the Project Implementing Entities’ framework, dated April 2002, 
adopted by the MOIT through its Decision Nos. 1253/QD-KHDT, dated 
May 27, 2002, and 641/QD-NLDK, dated February 2, 2005, pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Prime Minister’s Decision No. 407/QD-TTg, dated May 24, 2002, 
agreed with the Association and setting out guidelines, principles, and procedures 
for purposes of ensuring meaningful consultation with, and the informed 
participation of, Ethnic Minorities in the Project, as such framework may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association. 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means: (a) except as provided in subparagraph (b) 
below, the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010; 
and (b) in the case of contracts financed or to be financed, in whole or in part, out 
of the proceeds of the Original Financing, and for which the invitation to bid was 
issued prior to the date of this Agreement, “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Page  33
32
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. 
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 7, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
30. 
“Project  Implementation  Plan”  means  the  Project 
Implementing  Entities’          
(as hereinafter defined) plan, dated May 2002
,
agreed with the Association and 
setting out a time-bound roadmap for purposes of Project implementation, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Association, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan. 
31. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means, separately, each of the following: 
(a) except as provided in subparagraph (b) below, (i) Vietnam Electricity, or 
EVN (as hereinafter defined); (ii) Northern Power Corporation; (iii) Southern 
Power Corporation (as hereinafter defined); and (iv) Central Power Corporation, 
and, unless the context requires otherwise, “Project Implementing Entities” 
means, collectively, all of said entities; and (b) for purposes of the Original 
Project, (i) Vietnam Electricity, or EVN (as hereinafter defined); (ii) Northern 
Power Corporation; (iii) Southern Power Corporation (as hereinafter defined); 
(iv) Central Power Corporation; (v) PC 
ng Nai; and (vi) PC H
i
D
ng
.
32. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means: (a) for EVN, the Recipient’s 
Decision No. 148/2006/QD-TTg, dated June 22, 2006, and its charter, as adopted 
under said Decision; (b) for Northern Power Corporation, the Recipient’s 
Decision No. 789/QD-BCT, dated February 5, 2010, and its charter, as adopted 
in due course; (c) for Southern Power Corporation, the Recipient’s Decision 
No. 799/QD-BCT, dated February 5, 2010, and its charter, as adopted in due 
course; (d) for Central Power Corporation, the Recipient’s Decision No. 739/QD-
BCT, dated February 5, 2010, and its charter, as adopted in due course; (e) for 
PC 
ng Nai, its charter, dated June 3, 1999; and (f) for PC H
i
D
ng
,
its 
charter, dated February 2, 2005. 
33. 
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, the Recipient’s provinces of Ha Giang, 
Lai Chau, Nghe An, Son La, and Thanh Hoa, and any other provinces as may be 
agreed with the Association from time to time for participation in the Project, and 
any successors thereto, and “Project Province” means any one (1) of such 
provinces. 
34. 
“Provincial People’s Committee” means the local government at the provincial 
level. 
Page  34
33
35. 
“Provincial Project Management Unit” or “PPMU” means the unit in each 
Project Province, responsible for the management of the province’s Subprojects. 
36. 
“Provincial Project Steering Committee” means the Recipient’s entity in each 
Project Province, responsible for the coordination and oversight of Part 2 (c) of 
the Project at the provincial level. 
37. 
“RARE” means remote area renewable energy. 
38. 
“RARE Grant” means a grant made available by the Recipient, through the 
MOIT, to a Project Province, through the respective Provincial People’s 
Committee, out of the proceeds of the Financing to assist in financing a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined). 
39. 
“Renewable Energy Development Project” means the project described in the 
financing agreement, dated June 16, 2009, between the Recipient and the 
Association, the objective of which is to increase the supply to the national grid 
of electricity from renewable energy sources, on a commercially, 
environmentally, and socially sustainable basis (Credit No. 4564 VN). 
40. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” or “RAPs” means, collectively, the Project 
Implementing Entities’ plans, dated March 2002, adopted by the MOIT through 
its Decision No. 1252/QD-KHDT dated May 
27, 
2002 pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Prime Minister’s Decision No
.
407/QD-TTg dated May 24, 2002, 
agreed with the Association for purposes of carrying out the compensation, 
rehabilitation, and resettlement of Affected Persons under their Respective Parts 
of the Project, as such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Association, and such term includes any annexes or 
schedules to such plans, and “RAP” means any one (1) of such plans. 
41. 
“Southern Power Corporation” means the Recipient’s enterprise, established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decision No. 799/QD-BCT, dated 
February 5, 2010, and Southern Power Corporation’s charter, as adopted in due 
course. 
42. 
“Southern Power Project Management Board” or “SPPMB” means EVN’s entity, 
responsible for EVN’s projects in the southern part of the Recipient’s territory. 
43. 
“Subproject” means a specific community-based hybrid renewable energy grid 
project to be built by a Project Province, to be operated and maintained by Local 
Electricity Utilities, and to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the 
Financing, under Part 2 (c) (i) of the Project, in accordance with procedures and 
criteria set out in the MOIT Operational Manual for Renewable Energy and 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Subproject Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined). 
Page  35
34
44. 
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into among the 
Recipient, represented by the MOIT, a Provincial People’s Committee, and the 
respective Local Electricity Utilities for the purpose of financing a Subproject. 
45. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, the Original Financing Subsidiary 
Agreements and the Additional Financing Subsidiary Agreements. 
46. 
“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on the annual 
work plans and budgets referred to in Section V.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and Section IV.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement as 
approved by the Association, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and study 
tours, along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, 
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of 
training materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and 
implementation. 
47. 
“Transmission and Distribution Subproject” means one (1) or more contract 
packages under Parts 1 (a) (i), 2 (a) (i), and / or 2 (b) (i) of the Project, grouped 
together for procurement purposes. 
48. 
“Vietnam Electricity” or “EVN” means the Recipient’s enterprise, established 
and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decision No. 148/2006/QD-TTg, dated 
June 22, 2006, and EVN’s charter, as adopted under said Decision. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining un-withdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
Page  36
35
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (i) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Association or the Bank that 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank; and / or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of 
financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation 
or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity 
has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in connection 
with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
Section III. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5 (a), and a new Section 5 (b) is added to 
read as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Page  37
36
2. 
Section 11 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with the Bank’s prevailing sanctions policies and 
procedures 
(fn 13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual, or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period 
of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual, or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier, or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank-financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross-
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government-owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8 (b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate 
under paragraph 1.11 (c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board set forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
Page  38
37
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be po
sted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.”
 
__________
 
