                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                CREDIT NUMBERS 3680-VN and 4781-VN




                   AMENDED AND RESTATED


           Project Agreement
(System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization, and Renewables Project)


                               among


       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                and


                     VIETNAM ELECTRICITY

              NORTHERN POWER CORPORATION

              SOUTHERN POWER CORPORATION

                                and

               CENTRAL POWER CORPORATION




                       Dated August 13, 2010
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 3680-VN and 4781-VN


                               PROJECT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT         dated     August     13,   2010 entered into among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and VIETNAM
ELECTRICITY (EVN), NORTHERN POWER CORPORATION, SOUTHERN
POWER CORPORATION, and CENTRAL POWER CORPORATION (collectively,
“Project Implementing Entities”) (“Project Agreement”).

         WHEREAS the Association had agreed to extend to the Recipient, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement dated
October 24, 2002 between the Recipient and the Association, a credit in an amount
equivalent to one hundred seventy seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 177,900,000) (variously, “Original Credit” and “Original Financing”) to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 2 to said Agreement (“Original
Project”) (as amended to the date of this Agreement, “Original Financing Agreement”),
on the condition that EVN, Power Company No. 1, Power Company No. 2, Power
Company No. 3, Power Company Dong Nai, and Power Company Hai Duong agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the Project
Agreement dated October 24, 2002 between the Association and said entities (as
amended to the date of this Agreement, “Original Project Agreement”);

         WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the Association, and the Association has
agreed, to provide additional financing to finance completion of Original Project
activities given an unanticipated financing gap, and modified activities included as part of
a restructuring given that the Original Financing amount is insufficient to cover such
activities; and

       WHEREAS SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (“Recipient”) and the
Association have agreed to enter into a Financing Agreement of same date herewith
(“Financing Agreement”) amending and restating the Original Credit Agreement ;

         NOW THEREFORE the Association and each of the Project Implementing
Entities hereby agree to amend and restate the Original Project Agreement as amended to
date to read as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing
        Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
                                            -2-


1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or
        the General Conditions.

                              ARTICLE II — PROJECT

2.01.   Each of the Project Implementing Entities declares its commitment to the
        objective of the Project. To this end, the Project Implementing Entities shall
        carry out Parts 1, 2 (a) and (b), and 3 (a) and (b) of the Project as follows,
        namely, EVN shall carry out Parts 1, 2 (b) (ii) with respect to EVN, and 3 (a) and
        (b) (i), Northern Power Corporation shall carry out Parts 2 (a) and (b) (i) and
        3 (b) (ii) in its respective coverage area and 2 (b) (ii) with respect to Northern
        Power Corporation, Southern Power Corporation shall carry out Parts 2 (a) and
        (b) (i) and 3 (b) (ii) in its respective coverage area and 2 (b) (ii) with respect to
        Southern Power Corporation, and Central Power Corporation shall carry out
        Parts 2 (a) and (b) (i) and 3 (b) (ii) in its respective coverage area and 2 (b) (ii)
        with respect to Central Power Corporation, in accordance with the provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the
        funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for its Respective Part of
        the Project.

2.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entities shall otherwise
        agree, each of the Project Implementing Entities shall carry out implementation
        of its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
        Schedule to this Agreement.

                ARTICLE III — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

3.01.   Each of the Project Implementing Entities’ Representative is as follows, namely,
        for EVN, its Director General, and for each of Northern Power Corporation,
        Southern Power Corporation, and Central Power Corporation, its respective
        Director.

3.02.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, NW
                Washington, DC 20433
                United States of America
                                          -3-


                Cable:                   Telex:                  Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)            1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.

3.03.   Each of the Project Implementing Entities’ Address is:

        For EVN:

                18 Tran Nguyen Han Street
                Hanoi
                Socialist Republic of Vietnam

                Facsimile:

                84-4-824-9462


        For Northern Power Corporation:

                20 Tran Nguyen Han Street
                Hanoi
                Socialist Republic of Vietnam

                Facsimile:

                84-4-825-5074
                84-4-934-3798

        For Southern Power Corporation:

                72 Hai Ba Trung Street
                District I, Ho Chi Minh City
                Socialist Republic of Vietnam

                Facsimile:

                84-8-829-9680

        For Central Power Corporation:

                393 Trung Nu Vuong Street
                Danang
                Socialist Republic of Vietnam
                                 -4-



       Facsimile:

       84-511-625-071

AGREED at Hanoi, Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.


               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



               By: /s/ Alain Barbu


                                                    Authorized Representative



               VIETNAM ELECTRICITY



               By: /s/ Dinh Quang Tri


                                                    Authorized Representative



               NORTHERN POWER CORPORATION



               By: /s/ Do Nguyet Anh


                                                    Authorized Representative
                 -5-


SOUTHERN POWER CORPORATION



By: /s/ Pham Ngoc Le


                         Authorized Representative



CENTRAL POWER CORPORATION



By: /s/ Thai Van Thang


                         Authorized Representative
                                            -6-


                                        SCHEDULE

     Execution of the Project Implementing Entities’ Respective Parts of the Project

Section I.        Implementation Arrangements

A.        Institutional Arrangements

          EVN

1.        EVN shall be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of the
          Project Implementing Entities’ Respective Parts of the Project.

2.        EVN shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, throughout Project
          implementation, the NPPMB, the SPPMB, the CPPMB, and the DSM Board, all
          with an institutional framework, functions, and resources satisfactory to the
          Association, including competent personnel in adequate numbers, as shall be
          required for the implementation of EVN’s Respective Part of the Project.

3.        EVN shall be responsible for the coordination, implementation, and monitoring
          and evaluation of Part 1 (a) (i) and (ii) of the Project through the NPPMB, the
          SPPMB, and the CPPMB in their respective coverage areas, and Part 1 (b) of the
          Project through the DSM Board.

          Other Project Implementing Entities

4.        Each of Northern Power Corporation, Southern Power Corporation, and Central
          Power Corporation shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, a Project
          management unit, with an institutional framework, functions, and resources
          satisfactory to the Association, including competent personnel in adequate
          numbers, as shall be required for implementation of its Respective Part of the
          Project.

5.        Each of Northern Power Corporation, Southern Power Corporation, and Central
          Power Corporation shall be responsible for the coordination, implementation, and
          monitoring and evaluation of its Respective Part of the Project through its
          respective Project management unit.

B.        Anti-Corruption

          Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall ensure that its Respective Part of
          the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
          Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the
          Recipient.
                                        -7-


C.   Plan

1.   Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall carry out its Respective Part of
     the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan,
     and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree in writing, none of the
     Project Implementing Entities shall assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit
     to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any
     provision thereof.

2.   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of such Plan, and those of this
     Agreement, the latter shall prevail.

D.   Safeguards

1.   Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall carry out its Respective Part of
     the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines
     for Transmission and Distribution Subprojects, the EIAs, any environmental
     management plans, the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement, and
     Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, the RAPs, any additional resettlement
     action plans, the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities Development Plan, the
     EMDPs, and any additional ethnic minorities development plans, and, except as
     the Association shall otherwise agree in writing, the Recipient shall not assign,
     amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
     waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof.

2.   Wherever required in terms of the Environmental Guidelines for Transmission
     and Distribution Subprojects, the Policy Framework for Compensation,
     Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, or the Policy
     Framework for Ethnic Minorities Development Plan, the Recipient shall, for the
     purposes of any Transmission and Distribution Subproject, and prior to
     implementation thereof, proceed to have an environmental management plan, a
     resettlement action plan, and / or an ethnic minorities development plan, as the
     case may be,

     (a)     prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,

     (b)     except as otherwise agreed with the Association, submitted to the
             Association for review and approval, and

     (c)     thereafter, adopted and locally disclosed.
                                           -8-


3.      Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall take all measures necessary on its
        part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to the Association, as part of the
        Project Reports, information on the status of compliance with the Environmental
        Guidelines for Transmission and Distribution Subprojects, the EIAs, any
        environmental management plans, the Policy Framework for Compensation,
        Resettlement, and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, the RAPs, any
        additional resettlement action plans, the Policy Framework for Ethnic Minorities
        Development Plan, the EMDPs, and any additional ethnic minorities
        development plans, providing details of:

        (a)     measures taken in furtherance of such instruments;

        (b)     any conditions which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
                implementation of such instruments; and

        (c)     remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
                conditions.

4.      In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any such instrument and those
        of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      (a)     Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall monitor and evaluate the
                progress of its Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports
                for its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
                Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators
                set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project
                Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar year, and shall be
                furnished to the Recipient not later one (1) month after the end of the
                period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the
                Recipient to the Association of the overall Project Report.
                                                -9-


           (b)     The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a)
                   consist of the following:

     No.                                         Indicator
     1.      Transmission losses (Percentage)
     2.      Number of interruptions in 220 and 500 kV lines (Times / year / 100
             kilometers)
     3.      Average duration of interruptions in 500 and 220 kV lines (Minutes / year)
     4.      Reduction in carbon dioxide emissions (Tons)
     5.      Installation of financial management information systems in Project
             Implementing Entities
     6.      Distribution losses (Percentage)
     7.      Number of interruptions in 110 kV lines (Times / year / 100 kilometers)
     8.      Average duration of interruptions in 110 kV lines (Minutes / year)
     9.      Increase in capacity of small hydroelectric power plants targeted under the
             Original Project
     10.     Improved capacity of EVN to plan and finance investments
     11.     Provision of training to twenty (20) EVN staff
     12.     Establishment of corporate planning units at EVN and its transmission
             subsidiary


2.         Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall provide to the Recipient not later
           than nine (9) months before the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report
           referred to in Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, all such information as
           the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request for the purposes of such
           Section.

B.         Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.         Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall maintain a financial management
           system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
           accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to
           reflect the operations and financial condition of the respective Project
           Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources, and expenditures
           related to its Respective Part of the Project.
                                          - 10 -


2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, each of the Project
        Implementing Entities shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
        forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited
        financial reports for its Respective Part of the Project covering the quarter, in
        form and substance satisfactory to the Association.

3.      Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall have its financial statements
        referred to in paragraph 1 above audited by independent auditors acceptable to
        the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
        acceptable to the Association. Each audit of these financial statements shall
        cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the respective Project Implementing
        Entity. The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the
        Association not later than six (6) months after the end of the period.

Section III.    Procurement

        All goods, works, and services required for the Project Implementing Entities’
        Respective Parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
        Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
        Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.

Section IV.     Other Undertakings

A.      Annual Work Plans and Budgets

        Each of the Project Implementing Entities shall:

        (a)     no later than November 30 of each year, furnish to the Association for
                approval the annual work plan and budget for its Respective Part of the
                Project for the following year of Project implementation, of such scope
                and detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including a
                list of proposed transmission and distribution lines and related
                substations, feasibility studies for such lines and substations, including
                technical details, a budget and information as to funding sources, and a
                procurement plan, and confirmation of preparation of any required
                environmental management plans, resettlement action plans, and ethnic
                minorities development plans; and

        (b)     thereafter, ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in
                accordance with such plan and budget as approved by the Association.
                                        - 11 -


B.   Annual Reviews

     The Project Implementing Entities shall review jointly with the Recipient and the
     Association, no later than one (1) month after its transmittal to the Association,
     each Project Report furnished to the Association, and thereafter take all measures
     required to ensure the efficient completion of their Respective Parts of the Project
     and the achievement of the objective of the Project, based on the conclusions and
     recommendations of such Report and the Recipient’s and the Association’s views
     on the matter.

C.   EVN Development Program

     EVN shall, no later than December 31 of each year, furnish to the Association for
     review and comment a report on progress during the preceding 12-month period
     in the implementation of its ten-year program, and associated five-year
     implementation and financing plans, designed to efficiently expand and develop
     its power generation and transmission systems (EVN Development Program).
