Dccuiuat Of
The World 13
FOR COICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6693-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROJECT
March 20, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Public Sector Management Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GHANA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT INSTITUTIONAL
SUPPORT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    Calendar 1985    From January 1986   From September 1986
US$1             054.054            090.0               0128-155   1/
Cedi (0) 1          US$o.0185        US$0.oll           US$0.0073-0.0066
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS
COS            Committee of Secretaries
CPMU           Central Project Monitoring Unit
DMFAS          Debt Management and Financial Analysis Systems
EFF            Extended Fund Facility
ELU            Economic Liaison Unit
EPU            Economic Policy Unit
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
GIMPA          Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
GLSS           Ghana Living Standards Measurement Survey
GOG            Government of Ghana
GSS            Ghana S-atistical Service
IERD           International Economic Relations Division
IPAD           Investment and Project Analysis Division
LSMS           World Bank's Living Standard Measurement Study
MFEP           Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NRS            National Revenue Secretariat
ODA            Overseas Development Administratior.
OHCS           Office of the Head of the Civil Service
PIP            Public Investment Program
PMU            Project Management Unit
PNDC           Provisional National Defense Council
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PRD            Planning and Research Division
SAF            Structural Adjustment Facility
SAP Team       Structural Adjustment Program Team
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
1/   A dual exchange rate system was established on September 19, 1986 when
a foreign exchange auction was instituted for specified transactions.
The 090 rate applied to the first window (cocoa and residual oil
exports, petroleum and essential drugs imports, and central government
debt service contracted before January 1, 1986); the rate on the
second window wat established at the weekly auction. The two rates
were unified with effect from February 20, 1987; all transactions are
now valued at the rate emerging in the weekly auction. In the week
ending February 27, 1987, the marginal rate at the auction was
0155=US$1.00.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Credit and Project Summary                                                     i-iiJ
I - BACKGROUND
Introduction   ..1
Overview of the Economy .................................    1
II - PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT: CONSTRAINTS AND REFORMS
Reform of Economic Management Institutions ..............    2
Reform of the Civil Service .............................    4
Bank Support for Public Sector Management ...............    7
III - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives            ..................... 8
Project Components ......................................    9
A.  Economic Policy and Management ................ .......    9
B.  Public Service Productivity .........................   13
C.  Structural Adjustment Studies and
Advisory Services .........................                   14
D.  Poverty Monitoring .....................                        17
IV - PROJECT COSTS, FINAN'CING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Cost ...............................                        17
Financing Plan ................................                     19
Procurement ...............................                         19
Disbursement ...............................                        20
V - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................                    21
VI - BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................                       23
VII - AGREEMENTS ..............                                               23
This report was based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Messrs. G. Lamb, L. de Merode, Ms. B. Nunberg (Bank) and J.C. Boss6
(consultant) which visited Ghana during October 1986 to appraise the
Project. The report was subsequently revised and finalized by
Ms. J. Albert (consultant). Ms. M. Kalina provided secretarial support.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I       Implementation Schedule
Annex II      Work Programs
Annex ITT     Project Cost Tables
Table 1: Summary cost table
Table 2:  Project cost by component and year
Table 3: Project cost by summary account and year
Annex IV      Agreed Terms of Reference for ODA Assistance to
Government
Annex V       UNDP/World Bank Assessment of Social Dimensions
of Structural Adjustment in Sub-Saharan Africa
Project Summary
Annex VI      Procurement Plan



GHANA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit Summary
Borrower:            The Republic of Ghana
Credit Amount:       SDR 8.6 million (US$10.8 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Cofinancing:         ODA(UK) (US$1.1 million)
Proiect
Description:         It would include: (a) establishment of a policy advisory
staff under the Secretary of Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning (MFEP); (b) creation of a unit within
the office serving the Head of state and the Government
(the "Castle") charged with processing of economic policy
decisions and aid agreements; (c) expansion of MFEP's
capacity  to  undertake  public  investment   programming,
budgeting, expenditure forecasting and control, revenue
collection,  debt   management   and   aid   coordination;
(d) execution of a staffing and functional review of the
civil service and a related salary policy review, and
establishment of a sound administration and personnel
management system; (e) design of a coherent redeployment
program  and   support  for   redeployment  and   training
activities; (f) provision of studies and advisory services
in support of critical structural adjustment program tasks
carried out where possible by mobilizing skilled Ghanaians
from outside the public service; and (g) implementation of
a living standards measurement survey. Overall guidance
to  project   management   would  be   provided   by   the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program Team. A project
director responsible for day-to-day project operations has
been appointed to head the newly-formed Project Management
Unit. UNDP co-financing for the economic planning and
training components is under discussion. The seven-year
project  would  finance   both  local  and   international
consultants, in-country and overseas training, office
equipment  (mostly  computers),  vehicles  and   operating
maintenance costs  oif vehicles  and equipment.   ODA  will
co-finance the civil service and training components.
0



- ii -
Estimated Costs                                           (US$ '000)
Local        Foreign         Total
A. Economic Policy and Management
Economic Policy Unit                   164.8        1,651.2        1,816.0
Economic Liaison Unit                   77.2          137.6          214.8
Public In.vestment Planning            318.8          697.2        1,016.0
Budget and Expenditure Control          37.7          441.9          479.6
Aid Management                          47.2          100.8          148.0
Debt Management.                        25.0          169.1          194.0
Revenue Mobilization                   310.2          876.5        1,186.7
Training                               127.8          156.2          284.0
B. Public Sector Productivity
Civil Service Management                98.9          622.6          721.5
Redeploy. & Staffing Review            180.1        1,099.7        1,279.8
Salary Policy                           17.5          125.5          143.0
C. SAC Studies & Advisory Services        1,336.5          728.5        2,065.0
D. Poverty Monitoring                       699.4          695.7        1,395.1
E. Project Management                       204.7          547.2          751.8
Baseline Costs                         3,645.5        8,049.6       11,695.1
Contingencies                          1,603.0          859.1        2,452.1
Total Project Costs                    !,248.5        8,908.6       14,157.1
Financing Sources:
Local        Foreign       Total
IDA                                      3.0            7.8          10.8
Government                               2.2             --           2.2
ODA (UK)                                  --            1.1           1.1
Total                                    5.2            8.9          14.1
Estimated Disbursement: US$ million (IDA FY)
1987      1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
Annual            0.6       1.7       2.6       2.6      2.4       0.6      0.3
Cumulative        0.6       2.3       4.9      7.5       9.9     10.5      10.8



- ili -
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The project would support a far reaching and politically
difficult public sector reform program. In addition to
the SAL-related benefits, overall efficiency of the
ministries and agencies dealing with economic and public
sector  management  would  increase.   Improved  working
conditions, logistical support, higher salaries (from
reallocation of budgetary savings from redeployment),
and training opportunities would permit Government to
attract and keep more qualified civil servants in the
medium term. There are three risks which the TA project
shares with the Structural Adjustment Program: (a)
dependence on a small number of Government officials,
who constitute the core economic team; (b) the proposed
split of MFEP into two distinct ministries, which might
adversely  affect  implementation,  especially  if   the
resource allocation function (public investment program
and  budgeting)   were   divided;  and   (c)   political
difficulties  in   carrying   out  the   civil   service
redeployment program.   Government  management  weakness
would be mitigated by streamlining project organization
and encouraging the hiring of Ghanaian and/or external
consultants. On (b) Government has assured-IDA that it
will be consulted on any proposed major changes in the
organizational structure  and  functions  of  MFEP.   To
overcome resistance to civil service reform, Government,
with IDA support, is exploring other sources of external
assistance to help ease redeployed workers' transition
into other productive employment.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6693-GH



GHANA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I - BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.        The project originated from  a Government request for  assistance
for public sector management reform in the context of designing the
structural adjustment  program.   A  preliminary mission  in  October  1985
agreed upon a  broad program of  action with Government.   The project  was
prepared by the Government with the assistance of two preparation missions,
in February/March and July 1986, and appraised in October 1986. The main
actions on public sector management and civil service reform were agreed
during the Structural Adjustment Program appraisal in July 1986 and are
incorporated in the Structural Adjustment Program President's Report.
Effectiveness of the Structural Adjustment Credit agreements is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed project (para 51). A Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of US$750,000 was approved in June 1986. PPF funding was
used to help prepare the 1986-88 Public Investment Program, the budget and
external debt management components and to begin inicial survey work on
poverty monitoring.
Overview of the Economy
2.        Ghana lies on  the Gulf of  Guinea on the  west coast of  Africa.
Over 70 percent of the 12.42 million inhabitants (1984 census) live in the
southern half of the country, where the econortic base is stronger.   Within
West Africa, Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living. However,
poor  economic  policies,  the  drought,   and  the  oil  price   increases
contributed to a declining GDP in the 1970s and early 1980s. Poor economic
growth and a high annual population growth rate of three percent have
caused a substantial drop in real per capita income to a 1985 level of
about US$390. As a result, almost half the population is estimated to live
in absolute poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once the best
in Africa, are now no better than those in other sub-Saharan African
countries with comparable per capita incomes. Modern health services are
available to only about a third of the people, and less than half have
access to safe water. Although the education system is well established,
50 percent of adult men and 70 percent of adult women have received no
formal education.
3.        Throughout the 1970s, GhAna's economy was poorly managed.   Large
budget deficits, driven by the need to support a sprawling, inefficient
public sector, fuelled money supply  expansion and fed inflation.   Between
1970 and 1982, the real exchange rate appreciated by 625 per cent,
resulting in a deterioration in export performance. Aid levels fell due to



- 2 -
poor policies.  Thus,  import capacity was  heavily constrained.   Controls
and rationing caused further distortions. As a result, investment, savings
and output levels declined, per capita income fell and inflation averaged
44 per cent over the 1970-82 period. In the early 1980s, Ghana's problems
were exacerbated by a severe drought, a deterioration in the terms of
trade, and the need to absorb a million returnees from Nigeria.
4.        Since April 1983, when the Government announced a major  Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), there has been a marked improvement in economic
policies and  an  impressive  recovery of  the  economy.    The  Government
recognizes that to sustain these initial gains, substantial further
adjustment over the remaining years of this decade, if not longer, will be
required. The structural adjustment program represents the first stage of
this longer term adjustment process.   The initial response of the  economy
to the significant adjustment efforts to date bodes well for the outcome of
the further  measures planned.   Nonetheless, the  path ahead  is long  and
difficult, and success is contingent on political w±ll and a favorable
external  environment,  sizeable  concessional  ail'  flows,  and   stronger
economic management institutions.
II - PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT: CONSTRAINTS AND REFORMS
5.        From the time it took  office, the Government recognized that  it
inherited major administrative problems. Because of the long period of
economic and institutional deterioration, virtually all Government agencies
had suffered major declines in productivity and effectiveness. While the
civil service as a whole was excessively large, all key agencies lacked
technical staff, equipment  and supplies to  do routine tasks.   Inadequate
organization and processes further limited the Government's administrative
capacity. Initially, the Government prepared an ambitious organizational
reform, to decentralize responsibilities from the central government
ministries to regional  and district levels.   Progress in this  initiative
has been slow, both because the problems are not solely organizational and
because it is very difficult to address the problems of the entire
administration at once. Consequently, and as part of the structural
adjustment process, the Government has opted for a more focussed and
realistic approach to public sector management reform that addresses the
most cLitical problems in the administration in a phased manner.   Priority
will be given to improving the effectiveness of economic maniagement
institutions and productivity of the civil service.
Reform of Economic Management Institutions
6.        The institutional decline has  had a particularly serious  impact
on the core economic agencies. At the senior level, the policy role of key
economic agencies has been performed by a very small group of political and
technocratic figures, who have orchestrated economic policy and dealt with
crisis management.   They  have  received  limited  assistance  from  civil
servants and from 3econded or advisory personnel drafted ad hoc for



particular tasks. In addition, the Government's administrative capacity to
implement policy decisions effectively is sorely inadequate.
7.        The Ministry  of Finance  and Economic  Planning (MFEP)  has  the
central  role   in  macroeconomic   management.   Its   functions   include
macroeconomic and financial policy-making, economic planning, oversight of
public investment, tranefers to state e1Lterprises, aid coordination and
debt management, supervision of government accounting, the budget and
fiscal policy. Since 1985, actual revenue collection has been done by an
autonomous institution, the National Revenue Secretariat (NRS), headed by a
cabinet-level   Secretary.    In   spite   of   the   breadth   of   MFEP's
responsibilities,  its  leadership  is   thin:   most  decision-making   is
concentrated in the Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning himself,
who until early 1986 had only one Deputy Secretary to assist him.
Currently there are two Deputy Secretary positions, but only one of them is
filled. The Ministry's leadership has had little in-house policy analysis
or advisory capacity to draw on, particularly since the heads of the
Ministry's four main divisions (Planning and Research, Investment and
Project   Analysis,   International   Economic   Relations,   Budget    and
Administration) are themselves overstretched managing their own depleted
divisions.
8.        Some of the  Ministry's key functions  have not been  effectively
carried out. Public investment programming was dormant until the Secretary
appointed a Public Investment Program (PIP) Task Force in mid-1986 to
complete work on the 1986-88 PIP, assisted by IDA-financed consultants.
The budgetary process has virtually collapsed over the last few years, due
to MFEP's increasing institutional difficulties, to extreme shortages of
foreign exchange, and to the enforcement of limits on Government borrowing
from the Central Bank.   There is onl,  limited consultation with  spending
minibtries  duting  budget  preparation,   and  poor  integration  of   the
recurrent, investment and foreign exchange budgets. The budget document
itself, which has appeared increasingly late in the fiscal year, has borne
limited relation to the actual release of funds, which has been mainly
governed by cash availability on a day to day basis. Finally, expenditure
monitoring is of insufficient quality and timeliness to provide adequate
feed-back into the budgeting cycle. With the rapid rise in borrowing and
debt service and in external activity since the economic recovery began,
the Ministry has also experienced great difficulties in debt monitoring and
management, and in the coordination and monitoring of external aid.   Until
recently this was exacerbated by the absence of a clear allocation of
responsibility within MFEP for debt management.
9.        Major economic policy decisions must be approved by the Committee
of Secretaries (COS is equivalent to a Cabinet of Ministers). The COS is
comprised of heads of ministries and certain agencies and headed by a
Chairman who is effectively the Head of Government. Following review by
the COS many decisions must be approved in turn by the Provisional National
Defense Council (PNDC), equivalent to a council of state, chaired by the



- 4 -
Head  of  State.   These  two  bodies  and  their  staffs  (commonly  known
collectively as "the Castle") have not yet dealt effectively with economic
policy  making   for   several   reasons:   their   constitutional   basis,
organizations and division of responsibilities are still evolving; their
procedures sometimes combine meticulous legalism with ad-hoc improvisation;
they have had almost no staff in their Secretariats assigned or qualified
to deal with economic matters. Coordination of economic policy has been
weak, since the highest levels of Government do not receive properly
prepared and timely Cabinet papers, agendas and circulation of decisions
for  implementation.   Similarly,  processing  and  approval  of   economic
agreements -- especially for external aid -- have been delayed, at a great
cost to the economy.
10.       The economic management reforms proposed under the ERP have three
important features.   Firstly,  the reforms  are  intended to  provide  the
Government with urgently required integrating and coordinating mechanisms
for  economic  policy  and  management.   Secondly,  the  reforms  aim   to
institutionalize these key functions, which are often carried out on an
ad hoc and crisis management basis where little institutional learning
takes place. Reforms in each area therefore will incorporate staffing,
procedural and organizational changes to begin the process of rebuilding
the administration's capacity. Thirdly, the reforms are designed to fit
into a longer-term program of institutional development, and to complement
other efforts (some supported by IDA and other donors) at the sector level.
The  strengthening  of  the  two  MFEP  divisions  concerned  with   Public
Investment, Planning and Research, and Investment and Project Analysis, for
example, also will provide the nucleus of trained staff, systems and
processes for reconstituting macroeconomic planning. The public sector
management program, including the proposed project, is therefore to be
viewed as an initial step in a longer term, continuing process of
institutional reform.
11.       The organizational structure and  decision-making process of  the
economic management institutions will soon be modified (para 20). In a
December 1986 speech, the Head of State endorsed a proposal made by a
UNDP-funded planning team to create a separate National Planning Commission
and to split MFEP into two distinct ministries. The NRS would be brought
back under the Minie.ry  of Finance.  The crucial  requirement is that  the
resource allocation function of the MFEP (public investment programming and
budget)  remain  unified  under  the  restructured  Ministry  of   Finance.
Assurances have been received that no major changes in organization,
structural and functions of MPEP would be made without prior consultation
with IDA (para 52).
Reform of the Civil Service
12.       Sharp deterioration of the quality and productivity of the  civil
service has become the main constraint to better public sector management



- 5 -
in Ghana. Between 1972 and 1982, the size of the civil service swelled at
an annual rate of almost 15 percent, but real wages shrunk equally rapidly,
with the sharpest decline at higher skill levels. By 1984 real wages fo-
top civil  servants  were one-sixteenth  of  their 1977  level,  and  about
one,-fifth of those  for a comparable  job in the  private sector.   Besides
wages, working conditions also worsened: inadequate offices and equipment,
little or  no  supplies,  complicated  by  the  inefficiency  of  too  many
employees.  The result of  these policies was  overstaffing at lower  civil
service levels, a proliferation of vacant posts at higher level.s and an
exodus of competent persons at all levels. As the ERP starts to create
more alternatives in the private and parastatal sectors, the exodus may
accelerate and in some agencies the extremely high vacancy rate of
technical staff may totally p&ralyze their operations. For example, the
Office of the Controller and Accountant General at the end of 1985 had all
fifty chief accounting offices and 70 percent of its senior accountant
positions vacant. The planning section of the Ghana Highway Authority in
1984-85 was able to fill only one  of its seven high level positions.   For
civil servants who remained, other sources of income have become a
necessity, leading to chronic absenteeism, low morale and low productivity.
Thus, what was once among the premier civil services in Africa is today in
serious disarray.
13.       The major institutions involved in civil service management  have
suffered  from  this   loss  of   skills  and  resources,   and  from   the
demoralization of  the  remaining  staff.   Lacking  central  guidance  and
support as well as suffering from shortcomings of their own, personnel
administration  capacities  and  management  systems  at  the  sector   and
decentralized levels are critically inadequate.
14.       To respond to this  problem, the Government  has designed a  four
pronged action program for implementation during the next three years,
which lays the basis for more comprehensive reforms of the civil service in
the longer term. The key features of the reform areas are:
(a) Reducing the size of the civil service by 45,000 over the 1986-88
period (from about 318,000 in January 1986). This reduction is a
key target of the structural adjustment program and of the ERP.
The reform is important both to reduce the congestion of staff in
many agencies that lowers effectiveness of essential staff, and
to release the financial resources necessary to compensate more
adequately those who  remain on  the payroll.   The reduction  of
staff will be obtained through a combination of a hiring freeze,
natural attrition, enforcement of the retirement age, voluntary
retirements, the elimination of fictitious payroll entries, and
layoffs. In addition to utilizing the recent census of the
public  services  to  remove  "ghosts'  from  the  payroll,   the
Government is now designing a package of measures to provide
incentives for voluntary retirement, and to ease the resettlement
in the private sector of laid-off employees. This would include



cash and possibly deferred payments, an expansion of vocational
training opportunities, and possibly other measures. To establish
the basis for the Government's employment policy in the longer
term, a systematic review of staffing levels in the public
service would be carried out in relation to essential functions.
(b)  Rehabilitating and reforming  major personnel management  systems
and institutions. These will focus mainly on (i) the Office of
the Head of the Civil Service (OHCS), which is responsible for
conditions of employment in the Civil Service, for monitoring
staffing iviels and for providing management services, and (ii)
salary policy formulation and payroll administration, in which
OHCS, the Ministry of Mobilization and Productivity and MFEP are
involved.
(c)  Developing a competitive government remuneration system over  the
long term.   A Salary  Rationalization Committee  and a  National
Incomes Policy Committee are working to prepare an appropriate
civil service salary policy. A major target is to increase
substantially the spread of the civil service salary structure,
providing large real increases at the higher end of the scale.
At the same time the compensation system as a whole (including
non-salary benefits) is to be reformed to provide equal pay for
comparable work within the public services, and to uetter  relate
compensation to merit and performance. The salary policy reform
is a sensitive political issue and will take a long time to
implement. However, since the present distortions are so large,
the Government can realistically expect to make substantial
progress during the next three years.
(d) Facilitdting the employment of Ghanaian consultants by the
Government and motivating key civil servants to participate in
critical   structurol   adjustment    tasks.    The    successful
implementation of the ERP will markedly increase the demand for
skilled personnel and know-how by the Government. The salary
reform, even if successfully implemented, will take many years
before competitiveness  is restored  to  the civil  service.   To
ensure that as many as possible of the Government's skill
reqiuirements can be filled by Ghanaians, the Government intends
to launch a Skill Mobilization Scheme that: (i) facilitates the
contracting of local consultants by Government agencies for short
and long term assignments; (ii) attracts Ghanaians abroad with
high qualifications to return by paying a repatriation allowance;
and (iii) provides means for Government managers to pay task
specific supplementary remuneration to those civil servants
engaged in crucial economic recovery work.



Bank Support for Public Sector Management
15.       Until March 1983, when lending was  resumed after a hiatus of  18
months, the Bank Group's assistance to Ghana was project oriented with an
emphasis on export promotion and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure.
Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in Ghana, the
Bank has made ten loans totalling US$189.7 million and 35 credits totalling
US$673.2 million (including three African Facility Credits for US$62
million).
16.       The implementation  of the  ERP since  April 1983  resulted in  a
major shift in Bank Group strategy, which now has the following major
objectives:
(a)  to assist  the Government,  supported where  appropriate  through
technical assistance and program lending, to improve incentives
for production, to increase the efficiency of economic and public
sector management and restore in the medium term a sound
financial basis for growth;
(b) to promote the long-term growth and devrelopment of the economy by
underpinning structural adjustment lending with infrastructure
rehabilitation  and   sector  adjustment   operations  within   a
framework  of   appropriate   sectoral   policies,   the   latter
encompassing industry, education, and public enterprise;
(c)  to improve IDA's knowledge of the country's incentive  structure,
expenditure policies, and institutional processes so as to
improve IDA's contribution to the further development of the
Economic Recovery Program and so that IDA's recommendations are
consistent with the country's implementation capacity; and
(d) to contribute tu improved aid effectiveness in Ghana by acting as
the focal point for aid coordination between donors and Ghana as
the Government strengthens its own planning and aid coordination
ability.
17.       The Bank Group is pursuing a two-fold strategy for  strengthening
public sector management in Ghana. At the macro level, it is focusing on
the core economic and financial management functions and some wider issues
of public sector (especially civil service) management through the proposed
institutional support project.   At the  sector level, it  is pursuing  the
strengthening of sector policy formulation, planning, coordination and
management. Both areas of action are being pursued with UNDP, which, in a
series of parallel or co-financed projects, is considering assisting with
the proposed economic management project and is undertaking a series of
sector planning projects, all in close consultation with the Bank.



- 8 -
18.       Reforms  of  economic  institutions  and  of  the  civil  service
complement other related efforts. A Public Enterprise Project being
appraised would assist the Government in carrying out a major reform of the
public enterprise sector included in the structural adjustment program,
reducing its size and introducing major policy and institutional reforms to
increase efficiency. UNDP is executing sectoral planning projects (some of
which are components of IDA-funded projects) in the Ministries of Roads and
Highways, Agriculture, Health, and Transport, and envisages substantial
assistance to MFEP for general planning, some of which may substitute for
that provided  under  the proposed  Credit.   Under the  Industrial  Sector
Adjustment Credit (A013-GH and 1672-GH), assistance is available to MFEP
for trade and industry planning, to the banking system for project analysis
and financial restructuring, and to the Ministry of Industry, Science and
Technology for trade and exchange rate policy analysis. Finally, the
Education Sector Adjustment Credit is helping to bring about major reforms
in the structure and management of the educational system.
III - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
19.       The  project  would  support   the  Government's  public   sector
management reform as outlined above. It will do so by financing Ghanaian
and international expertise, equipment and training to strengthen policy
and management capacities of the core agencies in charge of the ERP.
Financing would be provided to undertake work of critical importance to the
economic recovery and structural adjustment programs, as well as general
institutional  strengthening  support.   Specifically,  project  assistance
would be directed to:
(a)  strengthening   economic   policy   analysis,   formulation   and
coordination in the MFEP and the office of the Head of State and
Government (the "Castle");
(b)  improving  economic  management,  especially  public   investment
programming, expenditure control, revenue mobilization, debt
management and aid coordination;
(c)  increasing civil  service  Droductivity through  retrenchment  of
surplus staff, establishment of a sound wdnagement and personnel
system in the public service, and an incentive-orie,ited public
service salary policy;
(d)  undertaking  studies  to  help  prepare,  implement  and   review
policies; programs and projects tied to the structural adjustment
process and providing short and long term advisor- services with
a special emphasis on mobilizing skilled Ghanaians to undertake
these tasks, through a Skills Mobilization Scheme; and



- 9 -
(e)  monitoring  the  impact  of   economic  policies  on   vulnerable
population groups through a living standards measurement survey.
Project Components
A. Economic Policy and Management
20.       In January,  1987,  the  Government  announced  its  decision  to
reorganize how economic planning and economic management are undertaken.
The proposal. calls for the creation of a national planning commission to
concentrate on long-term planning priorities and strategJes within the
context of  decentralization, and  a separate  Ministry of  Planning.   The
Ministry of Finance would remain responsible for revenue, the management of
the budget, debt and external resources. IDA is concerned that Zthe
resource allocation function (public investment programming and budget)
remain unified. The precise functions of each ministry and a timetable for
implementing these proposals have not yet been defined by the Government.
Government has agreed to afford IDA a reasonable opportunity to comment on
any major changes proposed in the organization, structure and functions of
MFEP prior to implementation to ensure that the new structure will enhance
and not weaken the Government's efficiency in economic policy management
(para 52).
21.       Economic Policy Unit (US$1.8 million). The project  would support
the establishment of an Economic Policy Unit (EPU) in the MFEP as the
nucleus for rebuilding the Ministry's capacity to analyze policy issues,
review economic trends and performance and advise Government on appropriate
economic  policies.   EPU   would  be  composed   of  three   advisers--for
macroeconomic, monetary and financial, and fiscal policies--one of whom
would be designated lead adviser. They would be supported by an assistant
for economic projections, and a systems manager responsible for developing
and integrating MFEP's disparate economic data bases. The advisers would
report to the Secretary for Finance and Planning, and provide support and
advice to the heads of  the Ministry's five functional divisions.   Members
of the Ministry's professional staff would be assigned as counterparts to
the advisers. MFEP is currently attempting to locate suitable candidates
from either Ghanaian or international sources. Terms of reference for EPU
and job descriptions for the advisors have been finalized. A condition of
effectiveness would be approval by IDA of the first-year work program
(para 51). The project would finance the three advisers and economic
projections assistant for up to three years each (the systems manager would
be transferred from within the MFEP), a fund for ad hoc studies, plus
office equipment and vehicles for the EPU.
22.       Economic Liaison  Unit  (US$  0.21 million).   A  small  ecoaomic
liaison unit (ELU) including three senior officers is being established in
the office of the Prime Minister (the "Chairman of the COS"), and will
report to the Secretary of the Cabinet (the "Member/Secretary, COS").   ELU
will have three major responsibilities: (a) to prepare, circulate and



- 10 -
maintain agenda and documentation for economic policy decisions by COS and
PNDC, and to ensure prompt notification to relevant ministries and agencies
of decisions and implementation responsibilities; (b) to help IERD expedite
processing of aid agreements by the government agencies concerned, and to
speed up the approval process at the highebt levels of Government; and (c)
to  advise   Government  on   improvements  to   procedures  for   economic
decision-making. The Government's intention is to second officers from
MFEP to staff the unit, if suitabie candidates can be found. Otherwise,
other sources would be investigated, with priority given to recruiting
qualified Ghanaians. Reporting relationships and terms of reference for
the unit have been agreed. A condition of effectiveness would be approval
by IDA of `^ae first year work program (para 51). The project would finance
equipment and supplies to support the work of the ELU, principally
micro-computers (for report production, scheduling, tracking and record
keeping of economic decisions), and high capacity photocopying equipment
for document circulation related to COS and PNDC meetings.
23.       Public Investment Planning (US$1.01 million). To institutionalize
the work performed by the Public Investment Programming Task force set up
in June 1986, the Government intends to rebuild the two divisions of MFEP
which will progressively assume full responsibility for drawing up a
rolling three year PIP annually --the Investment and Project Analysis
Division (IPAD),  and  the  Planning  and  Research  Division  (PRD).   The
Government has proposed a plan to reorganize and strengthen the staffing of
these   two   divisions,   and   to   establish   broad   allocations    of
responsibilities. This plan will be finalized once the restructuring plan
is announced (para 20). Proposals discussed with MFEP would give IPAD
primary responsibility for appraisal of major projects and for reviewing
project proposals and sector investment plans for inclusion in the PIP,
while PRD would be responsible for drawing up a balanced overall PIP
consistent  with  resource   availability,  macroeconomic  objectives   and
Government  intersectoral  investment  priorities.   Projects  and   sector
investment plans would be prepared by the responsible sector ministries,
where planning units have been or are being set up for that purpose, with
IDA and UNDP assistance. Within this framework, MFEP would develop systems
and procedures for the annual preparation of rolling PIP's and provide the
concerned staff with the requisite training. Agreement has been reached on
terms of reference to help prepare the 1988-90 public investment program.
Precise  technical   assistance  needs   will   be  determined   prior   to
effectiveness. A condition of effectiveness would be approval by IDA of a
first-year work program (para 51). Consultants financed under the PPF have
assisted in the production of the public investment program for 1986-88.
The project would thereafter finance 36 staff-months of international and
Ghanaian consultants to help carry out the program, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA; Ghanaian consultants or seconded staff to
work within IPAD and Planning and Research, as an interim measure while
staff of the two divisions are recruited and trained; essential vehicles
and office equipment; and short-term staff training in Ghana and abroad in
project appraisal  and  investment  programming techniques.   UNDP  is  now



- 11 -
considering financing part of the consultancy services required under terms
of  reference  satisfactory  to  IDA.    Should  UNDP  approve  this,   the
corresponding  credit  amount  would   be  reallocated  to  other   project
components, as needed.
24.       Budgeting and Expenditure Control (USS 0.48 million). The project
would finance the first phase of a long term effort to revitalize the
budgetary system. This involves the restructuring and strengthening of the
Budget Division of MFEP, and the reestablishment of systematic budget
preparation and monitoring procedures. The IMF has reviewed the budgeting
system and made proposals for improvement which are now being considered by
the Government.   A task  force has  been working  on developing  budgetary
expenditure norms for priority sectors. Proposals for norms have been
prepared for education and will be completed shortly for agriculture and
health. Agreement has been reached on the consultant requirements for the
preparation of the three-year work program for the Budget Division. A
condition of effectiveness would be approval by IDA of the detailed
first-year work program (para 51). The PPF has financed an expatriate
senior budget adviser to assist in the preparation of the 1987 budget. The
project  would  finance   30  staff-months  of   local  and   international
consultants to assist in the execution of the work program, training for
budget staff, and the purchase of equipment and vehicles for the Budget
Division. In addition, terms of reference of the study which will review
the operations of the Controller and Accountant-General's Department, and
assess the need for reorganization and for strengthening of data-processing
operations, have been finalized and incorporated in the consultancy for the
Budget Division.
25.       Aid Management (US$0.15 million).  MFEP expects to integrate  the
monitoring of aid disbursements and project performance iato the work of
the Ministry's  International  Economic Relations  Division  (IERD).   IERD
would absorb the functions set up by the Central Project Monitorirg Unit
(CPMU), which was established as an ad-hoc unit in 1985, and link CPMU's
project and disbursement monitoring system to its own aid management
information system which is currently being developed with UNDP funding. A
condition of effectiveness would be approval by IDA of a first-year work
program which would include a plan for integrating CPMU within IERD, and
would specify  staffing and  managerial  responsibilities (para  51).   The
project would finance the continued employment of CPMU staff seconded from
non-governmental  Ghanaian  institutions  for  up  to  three  years   while
additional staff would be appointed by IERD to acquire experience alongside
the existing CPMU personnel. The project would also provide for office
renovation and equipment, training for new staff, and operational travel
expenses.
26.       Debt Management (US$0.2 million).   To reorganize and  strengthen
its external debt management, the Government has selected the Debt
Management and Financial Analysis Systems (DMFAS) developed by UNCTAD, and
has for now assigned primary responsibility for debt management to IERD



- 12 -
within MFEP. A final decision on responsibilities will be taken after
considering  UNCTAD's  recommendations.   The  project  will  finance   the
installation of DMFAS over a period of approximately eight months from
February 1987. The DMFAS system, which has been evaluated by IDA and found
satisfactory, provides a package of training in debt reporting prior to
installation, installation of a program specifically tailored to Ghana's
requirements, plus associated hardware, and supervised implementation and
training. As a condition of effectiveness, a detailed action plan to
implement the external debt management sub-component would be submitted to
IDA as  part  of the  first  year  work program  (para 51).   A  Government
working group representing IERD, the Bank of Ghana and the Controller and
Accountant-General's Department, with assistaiace from UNCTAD, would prepare
the plan with financing provided under the PPF. It would pay particular
attention to reporting relationships and allocation of responsibilities
among the various Government agencies concerned with debt reporting and
management. The project would provide for a resident adviser for a further
six months beyoni installation of DMFAS to ensure full institutional
integration and additional training, and to advise on linking the debt
system's output to macroeconomic analysis and to IERD's aid information
system.
27.       Revenue  Mobilization  (US$1.2  million).  The  organization   of
government revenue collection has been substantially overhauled within the
last two years.   The National Revenue  Secretariat (NRS), set  up in  1985
under a Cabinet-level Secretary, took over the revenue functions (taxation
and customs) from MFEP.   Under the proposed  restructuring plan for  MFEP,
revenue collection  will return  to  the Ministry  of Finance.  A  Ghanaian
consultancy firm and the IMF have assisted the Secretary in evaluating the
organization and staffing of tax administration. The NRS is currently
strengthening management, personnel and administrative arrangements to
improve collections and fairness in the tax system, and intends to reform
the taxation system during the structural adjustment period. In this
context, the NRS is planning to improve its information base for both
income tax and customs and excise, and to evaluate and adapt its computer
facilities so as to increase the timeliness and accuracy of assessments and
revenue collections. This would be preceded by an assessment of the
taxation and  customs  information systems.   Terms  of reference  for  the
assessment were approved during negotiations. NRS, with assistance from
Revenue Canada, would undertake a computerization study which would
recommend  a  plan   for  the  subsequent   upgrading  of   data-processing
capabilities. The project would finance: 52 staff-months of short-term
consultants  for   the  assessment   and   for  mainframe   upgrading   and
reprogramming; the hardware for mainframe upgrading; microcomputers to
permit direct data entry in regional tax offices and major customs posts,
and vehicles for transport of data to the central systems; and training in
Ghana and abroad in systems analysis and programming for selected NRS
staff.



- 13 -
28.       Training for  economic institutions  (US$0.3 million).  MFEP  has
drawn up a preliminary staff development program for economic and financial
staff, to  include on-the-job  training, local  training courses  organized
mainly by the Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
(GIMPA), and Manpower Development and Planning Institute, and a highly
selective program of overseas training. The assistance of the British
Council  is   being  sought   to  facilitate   course  identification   and
administration for overseas fellowships and the provision of specialists
for some Ghana-based courses. As a condition of effectiveness, MFEP will
assign a professional officer to co-ordinate the training to be carried out
under each economic management component (para 51). In collaboration with
the training officer in the Project Management Unit (PMU), the lIFEP officer
would prepare an annial training plan for these components. Training in
debt management, however, would be provided as an integral part of the
UNCTAD package. The Ministry will collaborate closely with the training
officer in the PMU, and with other economic agencies (eg. NRS, Bank of
Ghana) participating in the training program.
B. Public Service Productivity
29.       Civil Service Management (US$0.7 million).  A sound civil service
management system must be able to monitor public service manpower levels
and deployment, and to advise on civil service policy and/or organization
and management issues within the Civil Service. To help OHCS achieve this
competence, an institutional assessment of it would be carried out in late
1987 and a medium-term institutional development program drawn up for it.
Areas singled out for strengthening are the staff inspection function, to
relate staffing levels to functions on an ongoing basis, and personnel
management information systems. Particular attention will also be given to
dovetailing the administration of personnel with that of the payroll, which
is the responsibility of the Accountant-General, so as to reinforce
internal checks on the payroll. ODA(UK) would fund the preparation of the
program by international consultants in close collaboration with the GIMPA.
The terms of reference for these consultants have been reviewed by IDA and
agreed with the Government. ODA would select the consultants necessary to
implement the program. IDA would finance complementary requirements such
as equipment and local consultant services. Details for implementing the
strategy for strengthening OHCS, based on the findings of the OHCS
institutionai assessment would be included in the annual work program
(para 51). The terms of reference for the OHCS institutional assessment
and salary policy review have been agreed by Government and ODA.
30.       Staffing/Functional Review  and Redeployment  (US$ 1.3  million).
The  Government's  employment  policy  in  the  public  sector  calls   for
quantified reductions in public sector employment over the next three
years. An accurate baseline estimate of the numbers and deployment of
civil servants, and an indication of under or overstaffing by agency and
skill are needed. The project would finance a staffing and functional
review, modeled after similar exercises recently successfully carried out



- 14 -
elsewhere in West Africa, notably in the Gambia. OHCS would have lead
responsibility.  The study will begin no later than July 1987.   While  the
study will not be complete until mid-1988, preliminary indications should
be available to provide estimates of overstaffing needed for decisions to
be embodied in the 1988 budget. The study will undertake an agency by
agency review of up to ten ministries, two regions, two districts, and two
other  departments.   The  review  would  include  a  training  and   staff
development program  for  OHCS  staff.   ODA(UK)  would  finance  about  36
staff-months  of  foreign   consultants,  and  IDA   would  finance   local
consultants and logistical requirements.   The  terms of reference for  the
staffing and functional review have been agreed to by Government and ODA.
31.       The Government's redeployment program, described in detail in the
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) President's Report, is a key feature of
the structural adjustment program.. Under the program, the Government is
committed to removing from the payroll by May 31, 1987, about 6,700 surplus
staff, and identifying and removing from the payroll by October 31, a
further 8,300. Additional retrenchments are foreseen in following years.
The proposed project would support the design of a coherent redeployment
program. Funds have been included in the project to finance studies to
identify training needs an' private sector employment opportunities for
retrenched workers, and for the design and implementation of training
programs for those workers. Government has approached ILO to undertake a
first study  of alternative  employment opportunities.   The SAP  Team,  in
collaboration with the PMU and OHCS, would be responsible for this
redeployment fund. It would submit proposals for the use of funds to IDA
for review and approval as part of the annual work program. IDA would take
a lead role in encouraging other donors to co-finance activities in support
of redeployment.
32.        Salary Policy  (US$ 0.16  million).  The  project would  finance
surveys and studies to help formulate salary policy. In particular these
studies would be useful to guide salary adjustment decisions in forthcoming
budgets. This would involve comparator surveys, financial modeling of
salary adjustment scenarios, studies on the rationalization of non-wage
compensation benefits, and the design of detailed procedures for ensuring
the smooth implementation of salary adjustments. The first phase of the
study will aim at establishing 1988 salary differentials for 1988-90 budget
planning purposes.   A  working group  consisting  of OHCS,  MFEP  and  the
Ministry of Mobilization and Productivity would be formed to co-ordinate
this study. Assurances have been received that Government would complete a
salary policy study by November 30, 1987 (para 52).
C. Structural Adiustment Studies and Advisory Services (US$1.7 million)
33.       The  successful  implementation  of   the  SAP  will  depend   on
availability of financial and human resources, to analyze the problems,
recommend corrective  actions  and implement  t'>se  recommendations.   The



- 15 -
project would provide US$1.7 million for a studies and advisory services
component to finance consultants to undertake studies and tasks in support
of the ERP. Should additional resources be required, IDA would be prepaced
to reallocate funds from other components whenever possible.
34.       Studies.  Studies already identified  include a cocoa  incentives
study, and development of sector norms for preparation of the recurrent
budget. Other topics needing in depth examination would be identified as
ERP implementation progresses.  Retaests for financing of these studies  by
the project could originate either from the concerned Ministry or directly
from the Structural Adjustment Program Team (SAP Team), with priority given
to studies whose recommendations are most critical to the structural
adjustment process. Studies would be reviewed by the PMU and by the SAP
Team and submitted to IDA for approval. Responsibility for the study would
rest with the implementing agency: it would write terms of reference,
select consultants, negotiate the contracts, and supervise their work.
Most studies would require sufficient personnel and logistical support to
necessitate hiring a consulting firm; both Ghanaian and foreign consulting
firms would be encouraged to submit proposals. Ghanaian consultants may be
hired through the skills mobilization scheme explained in paras 35-36.   In
addition, the project would finance a survey of the local consulting
industry. The study would consist of a description of consultancy firms
(number of consultants, fields of expertise, qualifications of staff) and
an assessment of their institutional capabilities to undertake consulting
assignments in  fields  related  to  the  ERP.   The  International  Labour
Organization has the necessary expertise and has expressed interest in
conducting this survey.
35.       Advisory  Services.   SAP  implementation  will  require  several
smaller studies and consultancies which are also beyond current civil
service manpower resources and capabilities. While salary policy reform is
eventually expected to allow the Government to attract and keep the talent
it needs, it is clear that, for financial and political reasons, public
sector salaries will not become competitive for many years. To overcome
this manpower constraint, the Government will have to attract qualified
people from outside the civil service and to increase the productivity of
its existing civil servants. The Government has repeatedly stressed its
des.re to recruit qualified Ghanaians, both within and outside Ghana, to
provide technical assistance in all sectors. Accordingly, as a short-term
measure, the Government is designing a Skills Mobilization Scheme to help
recruit and keep qualified  Ghanaians working in support  of the ERP.   The
Scheme would offer financial incentives for civil servants involved in
ERP-related tasks, provide for long and short-term consultancies for non-
civil servants also working on ERP tasks, and encourage Ghanaians living
abroad to return to Ghana to take up Government posts. If appropriate
Ghanaians were not available, international consultants would be hired. IDA
would finance two types of advisory arrangements: (i) long-term (one year
or  more)   advisors  (for   higher  level   positions);  (ii)   short-term
consultancies for studies or other tasks involving a specific output.



- 16 -
36.       User agencies would submit  detailed requests for consultants  to
PMU which would screen them according to eligibility criteria agreed to by
IDA. The user agency could identify its own consultant or could request
assistance from the PMU to find a suitable candidate. An administrative
officer in the PMU responsible for the Scheme would draw up and process
stardardized contracts between Government and consultants. These standard
contracts and procedures would be reviewed and approved by the SAP Team and
IDA. The PMU would review proposed terms of reference, contractual
arrangements and selection of con.;ultants; The SAP Team would have ultimate
responsibility for selection of consultants (para 46). IDA would review the
selection  of  consultants  every  six  months.    Payments  of   long-term
consultants would be conditioned on submission of quarterly evaluation
reports by user agencies to the PMU, while short-term consultants would be
paid on the basis of outputs. The SAP Team would review the operation of
the scheme on a quarterly basis and submit their recommendations for
change to the Government and to IDA. An appropriate fee structure would be
established so E  to attract Ghanaians now working in the domestic  private
and/or the  parastatal sectors.   The structure  would be  based on,  inter
alia, the length of assignment, levels of qualifications, market rates, and
civil service and parastatal comparators. Separate salary range parameters
would be established for long and short-term assignments. Local short-term
rates  would  average  about  US$1,000-1,500  per  staff-month.   Long-term
consultancies will be paid at rates averaging about US$300 per staff-month,
approximately the equivalent salary of a high ranking officer in a state
owned enterprise. Civil servants who wish to participate in this program
may do so only by leaving the civil service and thus relinquishing
associated benefits. Ghanaians currently working and residing abroad would
also be encouraged to participate in the program. Applicants from overseas
would submit their qualifications to the SAP Team which would have
established clear criteria for screening and accepting applications.
Returnees would sign a contract to work in a civil service position for a
minimum of 3  years and would  receive a lump-sum  relocation allowance  of
approximately US$15,000. In addition, to help overcome the severe shortage
of housing in Accra, the project would finance a limited quantity of
building materials and equipment needed to complete construction of
government housing.
37.       Agreement has been reached on types of studies and  consultancies
eligible  for  IDA  funding  under  this  component.   As  a  condition  of
effectiveness, the Government would approve the Skills Mobilization Scheme
(para 51). As conditions of disbursement: (a) IDA and Government would
agree on the detailed implementation arrangements for the scheme; and (b)
Government would furnish IDA with details of the quantities of building
materials and equipment needed to complete housing for returning Ghanaians
(para 53).



- 17 -
D. Poverty Monitoring (USS 1.4 million)
38.       To monitor the socio-economic impact of the structural adjustment
pro&ram at the household level, the project will finance the Ghana
Household Survey Programme. The first phase of the Programme is the Ghana
Living Standards  Measurement  Survey  (GLSS).   The GLSS  is  based  on  a
household survey developed by IDA's Living Standard Measurement Study
(LSMS). A similar survey is in its third successful year in neighboring
C8te d'Ivoire.   Information from  GLSS will  include data  on  employment,
education and job training, use of health facilities, housing conditions,
net and gross household income, food and non-food consumption, agricultural
production at the household level, migration, fertility, anthropomorphic
measurement, lending and savings.
39.       Planning for the study, to be undertaken by the Ghana Statistical
Service (GSS) began in November 1986, with the survey scheduled to bvigin
field operations in July 1987. Preliminary data will be available in late
1987 and the first full year of data should be ready by September 1988.
The GSS has agreed to provide IDA with unrestricted access to this data.
The Government agreed during negotiations that work begun by the LSMS staff
will continue as part of the joint UNDP/World Bank financed projeet,
"Assessment of Structural Adjustment in sub-Saharan Africa" (see project
Summary in annex V). The study will be closely supervised by the Bank's
LSMS staff and consultants, until June 30, 1987 at which time the World
Bank Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Unit, which is in charge of
managing  the  UNDP/World  Bank   Project,  will  become  responsible   for
supervision.
40.       The project  will  finance all  costs  of the  survey;  IDA  will
finance approximately 10 staff-months of technical assistance and other
foreign exchange costs (vehicles, computer equipment) under PPF funding
until June 1987 when the UNDP/World Bank project takes over project
financing and  implementation.   The  Government  will  provide  for  local
currency expenditures. A detailed implementation schedule and budget are
in the project file.
IV - PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
41.       Total  project  costs  are  estimated  at  cedis  2,123   million
(US$14.16 million) incli.ing taxes and duties of cedis 109 million (US$0.73
million). The estimated foreign exchange component is US$8.9 million, or
63 percent of total costs. Base cost estimates are in end-1986 prices and
converted into US dollars using an exchange rate of US$1.=cedis 150.
Approximately US$750,000 will be used  to repay the PPF advance.   Physical
contingencies amounting to 5 percent of total base costs are included.



- 18 -
Price contingencies have been estimated at 16 percent ox base costs at
annual rates as follows:
Assumed inflation rates (percent per annum):
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993
Local          20        15       10       7.5       7.5       7.5       7.5
Foreign         3         1         1      1         3.5       3.5      3.5
The disbursement schedule accords with the standard 7-year disbursement
profile for technical assistance projects in the West Africa region.
However, if implementation  occurs in 3  years as per  the initial  project
design  this  would  result  in   savings  of  US$3.3  million,  of   which
approximately US$2.5 million under the IDA credit. Savings under the Credit
would be reallocated to project components. A summary of cost estimate3 is
presented in Table 5.1. Details on project costs are given in Annex V.
Table 5.1
Estimated Costs                                         (US$ '000)
Z Foreign
Local       Foreign      Total   Exchange
A. Economic Policy and Management
Economic Policy Unit                   164.8      1,651.2    1,816.0         91
Economic Liaison Unit                   77.2        137.6       214.8        64
Public Investment Planning             318.8        697.2    1,016.0         69
Budget and Expenditure Control          37.7        441.9       479.6        92
Aid Management                          47.2        100.8       148.0        68
Debt Management                         25.0        169.1       194.0        87
Revenue Mobilization                   310.2        876.5    1,186.7         74
Training                               127.8        156.2       284.0        55
B. Public Sector Productivity
Civil Service Management                98.9        622.6       721.5        86
Redeploy. & Staffing Review            180.1      1,099.7    1,279.8         86
Salary Policy                           17.5        125.5       143.0       88
C. SAC Studies & Advisory Services   1,336.5           728.5    2,065.0         35
D. Poverty Monitoring                     699.4        695.7    1,395.1         50
E. Project Management.                    204.7        547.2       751.8        73
Baseline Costs                      3,645.5      8,049.6   11,695.1         69
Contingencies                       1,603.0         859.1    2,452.1          -
Total Project Costs                 5,248.5      8,908.6   14,157.1         63
=======  =======   ====s=====a



- 19 -
Financing Plan
42.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 8.6 million (equivalent to US$10.8
million) would finance approximately 80 percent of project costs net of
duties and zaxes; this would cover approximately US$7.8 million of foreign
costs and US$3.0 million of local costs. Costs for 90 percent of advisory
services and studies, all local training, equipment, vehicles and part of
operating and maintenance  costs would  be financed by  the Credit.   ODA's
contribution of US$1.1 million would finance technical assistance to the
civil service management, staffing and functional review, and salary policy
review sub- components.   ODA would  also finance  most overseas  training.
The Government would finance all local currency costs of the Living
Standards Measurement Survey through proceeds from the sale of U.S. food
aid. The Government budget contribution of US$2.2 million would finance
some incremental salaries and all taxes and import duties. UNDP is
considering co-financing the economic management component through its
proposed project, Strengthening Macro-economic Institutions. Specifically,
it  would  fund  consultants  under   the  PIP  and  EPU  components.    If
co-financing arrangements can be worked out satisfactorily to IDA, Credit
funds would  be  reallocated  to  project  components  as  necessary.   The
proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 5.2.
Procurement
43.       As  there  are  no  civil  works  envisioned  under  the  Credit,
procurement  would  be  limited  to  purchases  of  goods  and  consultancy
services. For small consultancy contracts each valued at US$3,000 or less
(e.g. for the Skills Mobilization Scheme), IDA would review the first ten
such contracts to ensure that the selection procedure is consistent with
IDA guidelines and, if it is found to be acceptable, would then agree to
the SAP Team selecting the remaining consultants without IDA's prior
review. Consultancies valued at more than $3,000 would be subject to normal
IDA review procedures as set out in the World Bank's Guidelines for Use of
Cornsultants. Equipment and vehicles valued at US$100,000 or more would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) according to World
Bank guidelines. All ICB packages would be subject to prior review by IDA.
Items worth US$100,000 or less could be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Minor items costing $10,000 or less
(e.g.  office  supplies)  would  be  purc..ased  following  local   shopping
procedures by obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers (see
Annex VI).
Disbursements
44.       The proceeds  of  the  Credit would  be  disbursed  against:  100
percent of the cost of consultants, local or foreign; 100 percent of
training costs; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for equipment, vehicles, office supplies and materials;
90 percent of vehicle operating and maintenance expenditures; and 100



- 20 -
Table 5.2
Pro2osed Project FinancinS
(US$ million)
Total Cost    IDA        ODA          GOG           I IDA
Contribution
1.' Advisory Services     6.05        5.4         0.6         -             90
(Local)               (1.95)      (1.9) a/    -           _             100
2. Studies                0.9         0.8         -           0.1           92
3. Training               1.0         0.5         0.5        -              50
4. Office equipment       1.5         1.3         -          0.2  bl        86
5. Vehicles               0.7         0.7         -                        100
6. Incremental            1.7         0.4         -          1.4            21
Salaries
7. O&M d/                 2.2         1.7         -          0.5  b/        75
Project Total            14.1        10.8         1.1        2.2            76
a/  Includes US$1.5 million for Skills Mobilization Scheme.
b/  Taxes and Duties.
c/  Includes salaries for the st_sff of the Project Management Unit,
annual audits, and round-trip transportation for PMU director to
Washington.
d/  Includes operating supplies for computers and spare parts for vehicles.
percent of repayment of the PPF. A Special Account of up to US$700,000
would be established in US dollars in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA.   These funds would be  maintained by PMU  to
cover project expenditures and would be replenished by IDA on the basis of
eligible aggregated withdrawal requests; minimum replenishment application
size  would  be  US$140,000.   Payments  against  contracts  of  less  than
US$20,000, training  programs  and  vehicle  operating  expenses  would  be
documented  through   statements  of   expenditure  with   the   underlying
documentation held available locally for inspection by IDA supervision



- 21 -
missions. All other expenditures would be fully documented for prior
approval by IDA.
45.       Accounts and Audit.  The PMU would maintain separate accounts for
all expetnditures funded under the Credit. The project accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, including an
audit of statements of expenditure. The audit reports, of such scope and in
such detail as IDA shall reasonably  request, would be submitted to IDA  no
less than six months following the end of the Government's fiscal year. The
PMU would submit semi-annual progress reports to the Government and IDA  on
project implementation and expenditures, and  a final evaluation report  on
project implementation experience and project outcome within six months  of
the Credit closing date.
V - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
46.       Overall guidance to project management  would be provided by  the
Structural Adjustment  Program  Team (SAP  Team).   The SAP  Team  oversees
preparation of the Program, monitors and evaluates progress on on-going
reforms as well as their impact on the economy, initiates preparatory steps
for further adjustment measures, and liaises with IDA for periodic progress
reviews. It also provides a channel to the Committee of Secretaries and
the PNDC, the ultimate decision-making body. The SAP Team is headed by the
Chairman of the Committee of Secretaries. For the proposed project, the
SAP Team would (i) determine priorities for project implementation; (ii)
give final approval for action plans for each component; (iii) ensure the
proper integration of project activities into the Government's institutions
and programs;  and  (iv)  generally  monitor  project  implementation.   In
addition, the SAP Team would review and approve consultants hired under the
Skills Mobilization Scheme (para 36), including reviewing all terms of
reference and candidates for short and long term consultancies and
applications from returning Ghanaians, and generally oversee the Scheme.
47.       The programs for each project  component would be implemented  by
the agencies directly concerned (MFEP, NRS, OBCS, GSS, CCOS), while overall
project administration would be done by the Project Management Unit (PMU).
The Government has created this unit under direct responsibility of the SAP
Team.  The  studies  and  advisory services  component  would  be  directly
managed by  the PMU.   The implementing  agencies will  be responsible  for
formulating and implementing their own activities, subject to review and
approval by the PMU, the SAP Team and IDA. Individual work programs do not
depend  on  activities  by  another  agency  to  attain  objectives.   Each
implementing agency will name a project facilitator to liaise with the PMU.
48.       The PMU, headed by a  project director, already appointed,  would
be responsible for:



- 22 -
(a) helping implementing agencies in the preparation of annual work
plans and budgets; (para 51);
(b)  preparation of semi-annual progress monitoring reports;
(c)  disbursements and preparation of claims for reimbursements;
(d)  assisting in  and  monitoring of  the  procurement of  goods  and
services to be financed under the credit;
(e)  implementation of  the studies  and advisory  services  component
(described in detail in paras 34-36); and
(f)  co-ordination  of   project-related  training   activities   from
participating agencies with ODA, local training institutions or
other suitable agency.
PMU  staff   would  include   the   director,  officers   responsible   for
administration, SAP monitoring, and project training, accountants and
support staff. Given the complexity of management arrangements for the
Skills Mobilization Scheme and extensive additional preparatory work to
complete the work programs, resources have been included to finance support
from the local private sector or, failing this, international entities such
as UJNDP's Office of Pr3ject Execution. This technical assistance would not
only help to define work programs and administrative systems, but could
provide management support to PMU on a permanent basis. If these resources
are not needed, funds will be used for other project activities.   However,
if project implementation falls more than 6 months behind schedule,
mobilization of these resources would occur.
49.       Annual  Work  Programs  and  Reporting.   The  project  would  be
implemented on the basis of annual work programs prepared by each
implementing agency, coordinated and reviewed by the PMU, and approved by
the  SAP  Team  and  IDA.   These  programs  would  serve  as  a  planning,
implementation  and  monitoring  tool  and  would  provide  the   necessary
flexibility  to  ensure  adjustment   of  project  activities  to   current
circumstances. Each annual work program would include: (i) an evaluation
of the previous year's performance; (ii) a statement of specific quantified
objectives to be pursued and a description of the activities to be
undertaken to achieve those objectives; (iii) detailed investment and
operating budgets; (iv) staffing and training plans; (v) a financing plan
which indicates the source of funds for each activity; (vi) procurement
plans for purchases of goods and services in close collaboration with other
implementing agencies, and works scheduled in the annual work program,
including type of bidding and timetables.   The PMU would prepare, for  SAP
Team approval, targets and priorities for the studies and advisory services
component (para 33).   Draft work  pians for  the following  year would  be
submitted to IDA for review and approval by December 1 of each year
(para 53). As a condition of effectiveness, the PMU would submit a



- 23 -
detailed work program satisfactory to IDA for the April 1987 - December
1987 period. PMU would prepare semi-annual reports describing progress in
achieving  work  program  tArgets.    These  reports  would  also   include
expenditure statements  for IDA  review based  on project  accounts.   Each
participating agency would prepare a project completion report; PMU would
compile these and submit one project report to IDA no later than 6 months
after the Credit closing date.
VI - BENEFITS AND RISKS
50.       The  project  would  support  a  far  reaching  yet   politically
difficult public sector  reform program.   In addition  to the  SAP-related
benefits, overall efficiency of the ministries and agencies dealing with
economic and public sector management would increase. Improved working
conditions, logistical support, higher salaries (from reallocation of
budgetary savings from retrenchment), and training opportunities would
permit the Government to attract and keep more qualified civil servants in
the medium term. There are three risks which the TA project shares with
the SAP: (i) the proposed split of MFEP into two distinct ministries which
might adversely affect implementation; (ii) dependence on a small number
of Government officials who constitute  the core economic team; and   (iii)
political difficulties in carrying out the civil service redeployment
program. On (i), agreement has been reached during negotiations that IDA
will be consulted before any proposed major changes are made (paras 20 and
53). The Government's management weakness would be mitigated by the
streamlined project organization that has been established and by providing
external assistance. To overcome resistance to civil service redeployment,
the Government is setting aside budgetary resources to fund the initial
retrenchment program and in addition, with IDA support, is exploring other
sources of external assistance to help ease retrenched workers' transition
into other productive employment.
VII - AGREEMENTS
51.       Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Structural
Adjustment Credit agreements have been fulfilled. (para 1);
(b) that MFEP would assign a professional officer to co-ordinate the
training to be carried out under the economic management sub-
components (para 28);
(c) review and approval by IDA of the project's first year work
program (para 49);



- 24 -
(d) approval by the Government of the Skills Mobilization Scheme
(para 37).
52.       Assurances have been received that:
(a) Government would afford IDA a reasonable opportunity to comment
on any major changes proposed in the organization, structure and
functions of MFEP (para 20); and
(b) Government would complete a salary policy study not later than
November 30, 1987 (para 32),
53.       As conditions of disbursement:
(a) under the Skills Mobilization Scheme of the studies and advisory
services component until Government has furnished IDA with
details satisfactory to IDA of the administrative arrangements
relating to the Scheme (para 37);
(b) for materials and equipment to complete housing required for
persons to be employed under the Skills Mobilization Scheme
unless Government has furnished IDA with satisfactory details of
quantities of building materials and equipment needed (para 37);
and
(c) under contracts entered into after December 31 of each year
unless IDA shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views
regarding the annual work program with (i) the progress achieved
by the Government in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii)
the work program to be carried out under the Project during the
following year (para 49).



- 25 -                                 ANNEX  , Page 1 of 2
QHANA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TECNICAL ASSISTANCE PJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-----------------------------------------------------__--------------_-------__-------_---------
IComponent                                    I                Yest- and Quarter
I   Activity                                  I    1967       I    1966       1    1989       I
1        Tk....Task.   1 1  2  a  41 1  2   8  4 1 1  2  3  41
IA. Economic Policy and Monagment
I   1. Economic policy unit
I        - establish, equip, recruit                                                      .
I        - operational                        I    .e e                    oeooeeeoeeeeeo*eoo
2 Economic liaison unit                  I                       I                       I
- notsgn etaff nd equlp             Io
- establish procedures              leoeeeee        I       .       I
l        - operational                        I osoeeeoeeooeelesoseeeeoeeleoooooes.eoe s
3. UFEP staff development                  oeo,oeo;ee eos,eee,eeo1
4. Public investment planning
- staffing plans finalizd for PMRD  Is      ,I  .  .  .
and IPA
I        - develop public Investment aork     jeeoeeeoee..
I           program, responsibilities,
procedures                        I  *    *      I               I               I
- mobilize consultants for above    1s.,  .  .   I  .   .  .  I                    I
- mobili ze  onsultants for 06-90 PIP I*o****
- implemont PARD, IPA staffing plan  j.oi'oeoee.soI*
- lmplement PIP work program         I    eee.eo.Ieesoe.seseseeleoeeoee.eeoel
S . Budgeting and exponditure control
- finaliz Budget Divislon           .e
restructuring plan               I               I       .  *   I
- implement restructuring and       I soe**.
recruit neow staff t                                             I
- study of accounting                  eeeo ,                       I
i        - budget system reforms                   eeeeeeesIeseeseooesessI            .
I                                 ~~~ ~~I. .    .  I. .    .   I          . . 
S. Revenue mobilization
- mobilize computing advisers       lee
- install micro-computers at ports,  I  .eooeo.                     I ,
regional tax offices             0       *                         :         .
- assess and decide tax and customs  I         *                                    I,
i           information system chonges        I       .           *  .
- impilment reforms and mainframe    I              Iosssosoosooosl.sssosssoeo0oel
upgrading program                 I           .                   I          .
I                                             I.   .. I.. .1                  I . ..    .  I
7. Aid Management                        |               |               |               I
- minor works                         *         .  .  .             I               I
- appointment of new CPMU taef by  les    .         I               I
IERD
- extend and employ seconded        I Geosssssss eelesssosssosslesesesssosl
i           personnel for CPMU                I               I
I        - complete Integration of CPMU Into              .  I                |           eseI
I          IERD                               I   .               .I                        .I
l                                 ~~~~~I ..  . 1I.  ..    I  .  ..    I
8. Dobt Management                                       |               | I
- detailed work program             le      .  .   I
- phased Instellation of OMFAS      I oeBoeoooo ,  I            , *     ,  ,
I        - full Implementation with advisory          .  eeole
I           asoisteno                         IIIasltnce
WAPPS 18-Mar-87



- 26-                                     ANNEX  , Paep 2 of 2
GHANA
StRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT TEtHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IComponent                                                     Y Year and Quarort
Activity                                  I    1987      |    1988       I    1989
I        Toake                                !i   2   8  411  2   3  4 1 1  2  a  4
1--- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- -I            -  -   -  - - - ---   --- I--  --  --  -
1B Public Servico Productivity                                                I  :  :  :
1. Staffing and functional roviow              *oeoeeooeeeel.
- first round redeployment          f e.eooeoeooj           .           .
I        - mobilization of conoultanto        I uoeee.aooeeeJ                 I  *
I          I-ntorim report                    I            s
-second round redeployment          j                o .
-final report                        I                e             I
l        - third round rodeployment               .        :1::: .   .
2. Strengthening of civil servico            I       .  .                            .
I        managoemnt                           l   :  .                        I               I
- mobilization of consultants       l esseos        I
I        - institutional audit of OFCS and        0ooee.      I           .                   I
l        preparation of Institutional         I       .       I                   .
I        devolopmont program                  I  .        .  I
- implementation                    I  .*o,*5****oOI*oeeeeoe0 o 0 Ioeeooeo*5I
3. Salary Pollcy Formulation              I              l  .                            I
a- greement on studico and surveys   ie  .  .  .
In- nterim report                     000I0*.   .                           .  .
j        -tfinal report                         0.o .**o      |               |
4. Skills mobilIzation schces.               I 
- expansion A consolidation of       joooe          I
ISSER roster; outreach program       I              I               I               |
i        - establishment of ?ules,            jeoceoo         1               I               I
guidelines for seloction,
contracting of consultants           I
oversight                            I          .   I                         .
I        - selection, recruitment,            I        oeoeee I ooeeoeeeaeeeeooeeeo
I        deployment of consultants            I       .       I           .
I        - mid-term, final reviows                                                         e
S . Training plan                             I               |               |       .
l        - preparation ofTOR R                  e             I               I  .  .
I        - Identification of consultants      I e   .  . .
- lmplementation                    I  .o00.
- dissemination A follow-up             .   e       I               I
1~~~~~~~ . *                                         .  *   *  I  . * 
IC. Poverty Monitoring                        I                                              1
I---------------------_                           .     .   . I   ,   .   .   I   .   .   .  I
I        - planning, pr.teeting, analys;s of  fl.o.eo*eooe.   I    . *2oeseoou    .  .
I        questionnaire                        l               l
I        - training of sonior staff,          loo0os          l
I        supervisors and intorviewers         I       .       I                      .
I        - ourvey                             I      leoseejoeees'seo.2eojeoooe.
I        - data analysis                      I                    lceoeo     I  .2eoee.
WAPPS 10-Uoa-87



-27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
Proposed First Year Work Programs
The project would be implemented on the basis of annual work programs
prepared by each implementing agency, coordinated and reviewed by PMU, and
approved by the SAP Team and IDA. Each annual work program would include
(i) an evaluation of the previous year's performance; (ii) a statement of
specific quantified objectives to be pursued and a description of the
activities to be undertaken to achieve those objectives; (iii) detailed
investment and operating budgets; (iv) staffing and training plans; (v) a
financing plan which indicates the source of funds for each activity; (vi)
procurement  plans  for  purchases  of  goods  and  services  in  close
collaboration with other implementing agencies, and works scheduled in the
annual work program, including type of bidding and timetables.
In order for the project to become effective, each project component must
complete a first year work program.   During the first supervision mission,
agreement will be reached on what realistically can be achieved during the
project's first year.  At a minimum, the work programs should include the
following:
1.        Economic Policy Unit. Detailed terms of reference for the three
advisors, clearly defined reporting relationships between the Unit and
MFEP, and a discussion of how the Unit will become operational.
2.        Economic Liaison UJnit.  Clearly defined working relationships
between the Unit and the Secretary of the Cabinet (already agreed), job
descriptions   for   three   liaison   officers   and   a   timetable   for
operationalizing the Unit.
3.        Public Investment Planning.  Completion of a plan to reorganize
and strengthen the staffing of the IPAD and PRD Divisions of MFEP
(including a training plan), and work begun on the preparation of the
1987-89 PIP.     1
4.        Budgeting and  Expenditure Control.   A plan  to complete the
three-year strategy and first-year program for the Budget Division,
including a training plan for the Division.
5.        Aid and Debt Management.  A plan to integrate CPMU within IERD,
specifying staff4ng and managerial responsibilities.  A detailed plan to
implement the external debt management system (DMFAS) developed with
assistance from UNCTAD, including training needs.
6.        Revenue Mobilization.  A timetable for completion of a detailed
work program which would include upgrading of data-processing capabilities,
training needs, and a plan for implementing the recommendations made in the
forthcoming assessment of the taxation and customs information systems.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
7.        Training.  A plan detailing how the MFEP training coordinator
will work with each MFBP Division, the NRS, and the PMU training officer to
formulate a training plan for the project period.   The first-year plan
should also address how MFEP will work with the British Council to select
potential trainees.
8.        Civil Service  Productivity.   A  discussion  of  how OHCS will
undertake the institutional assessment.  A plan to complete the staffing
and functional reviews, including a description of how the reviews'
recommendations will be implemented.  On redeployment, the first-year plan
shot.ld simply address how the Government expects to work with various
donors to formulate a redeployment support program.
9.        On salary policy, a timetable to complete the study and implement
its recommendations.
10.       Studies and Advisory Services.   An outline  of studies to be
financed  during  the  first  year;  a  plan  to  complete  implementation
arrangements for the the Skills Mobilization Scheme,  including a draft
standard contract and a list of proposed consultancies for the first year.
11.       Poverty Monitoring.   Updating of  work program and timetable
formulated under PPF financing.



- 29 -
GHBAP                                              ANNEX III
OWm  STRUCTURAL ASSISTANCE INSTITUtItL SPT POECT                              Table 1
PROECT COST SIA
(CEDIS B4illion)          (US  '000)                    8 Total
? Fo-rign   In
Local Fovi*n Total    Local Foreign  Total   Excam          Coss
zv=  wouunfl uueauua   =~mums uvxanua  zzuguuua  64=8suuuu
A. ECOWONIC POLICY AND  P
ECWIIC POLICY UNIT                         24.7  247.7  272.4    164.8 1#651.2  1,916,0           91       16
ECOUIC LIAISON UNIT                         11*    20.   32.2    77.2  137.6   214,8              64        2
PWLIC IlE STl£ J PlMWINB                   47.8   104,6  152.4   318.8  697.2  1t016.0            0         9
mmWEl 8 EI  DITtkE mONTROL                  5.7   66.3   71.9    37.7   441.9   479n6             92        4
AID PtM3ZM                                   7.1    15.1   22.2    47,2  100.8   1480             68        1
MYBT MNNE3                                  3.7   25.4   29.1       25.0  169.1   1"4.0           87        2
REWUE NOBILIZATION                          46.5  131.5  178.0   310.2  876,5  1W186W7             74      10
TRAINING                                    19.2   23.4   42.6    127.8   156.2   294.0           55        2
Sub-total ECONOMIC POLICY AND 5iflET         166.3  634.6  800W8  1,108#5 4.230,4 5339.0             79       46
D. PIULIC SECTOR PRODUCTIVITY
CIVIL SERVICE   N3lE                       14.8   93,4   108.2      9.9   622.6    721 5          86        6
REPLOY.J STAFFING REVi                      27.0  165.0  192,0   180.1 1099.7  1.279.8             86      11
SALARY POLICY                               2.6    18.8   21.5       17.5   125.5    143,0        Be        I
Sub-Total PUBLIC SECTOR PRODUCTIVITY          44.5   277.2  321.6   296.5 1,847.8  2.144.3           86       18
Co SAC STUDIES I ADVISORY SERVICES           200.5   109,3   309.8  1.336,5  728.5  24OA5,0          35       18
D. POVERTY NOMITORING                        104.9  104.4  209,3   699.4  695.7  1M395.1             50       12
E. PROJECT IUNMSERENT                         30.7   82.1   112,8   204.7  547.2   751.8             73        6
Thtat DASELINE COSTS                           546.8 1.207.4 1,754,3  3,645.5 8.049,6 11.695.1         69      100
Phwsical Contingencies                        19.9    64,5    84.4   132.7  430.0   562.6           76        5
Price Contindmnies                          220.5    64.4  284.9  1,470.3  429.1  1,899.4           23       16
Total PROJECT COSTS                            787,3 1,336.3 2t123.6  5,248.5 8,908.6 14lS5791         63      121
Nardi 1  19= 7a 1z5 
March II# 1987 18t#35



- 30 -
GHANA                                                ANNEX  III
GH4NA STRUCTURAL ASSISTACE INSTITUTIONKL SUlPPlT PROJECT                      Table 2
Project Coopnnts bs Year
Totals Includina Contingencies                        Totals Including Contingencies
(CEDIS Million)                                           (US0 '000)
_         **  .                               _      - -------------------------  - - ---  - -- -- -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - 
1997  1988   M   1990         1992  1993 Total    1987   1988   1989   1990   I991   19   1993  Total
A. ECONOMIC POLICY AND MANWGEMENT
ECONOMIC POLICY UNIT                       26.1  87,0  87.2  86.3  13.1   4.8 2.4  306.9   174,1  580,0  581.7  575.2   87.1  32.1  15.9  2.046.,
ECMOIOtC LIAISON UNIT                         -  15.3  5,1   5.4  5.4  5.7  3.2   40.1           -  101.9   34.0   35.7   36.1  38.1  21.3   267,1
PtIJC INVESTNENT PLANNING                   8.0  39.1  46.5  48.5  19.4  20.6  7,1  189.2    53.3  260.7  310.2  323.2  129.3 137.3  47.2  1,261.1
NUDGET b EXPENDITURE CONTROL                  - 15.1  26.5  20,6  14.8  2.3  2.4   81.9          -  100.7  176.7  137.3   98.9  15.5  16.0   545,1
AID  NAEMNT                                 1.7  8.2  10.8  3.0  1.8       -   -   25,e    11.6   54.3   72.2   20,3    11.9          -    -   170,3
DEBT NAMNT                                    -  5.7  9,0  7.7  7,0  2.0  1.9   33.3             -   37.9   59.7   51.2   46.9  13.6  12.7   222.0
REVENUE MODILIZATION                          - 37.0  44.6  67.5  30.3  23.0 12,9   215.2        -  246.8  297,1  450.1  201.9 153.2  85.9  10434.9
TRAININS                                    0.3  7.8  8.3  219  10.0  6.5    -   54.6         2.1   51.7   55.2  145.7   66.4  43.0    -   364.2
Sub-Total ECO#OMIC POLICY AND  IMANAEMENT     36,2 215.1 238,0 260.8 101,8  64.9 29.8  946.6   241.2 1.434.1 1,5867 10738.6  678.5 432.8 199.0  64310.9
S. PU8tIC SECTOR PRODUCTIVITY
CIVIL SERVICE MANAGEMINT                    5.4  28.6 32.1  25.9  16.2  8.7  7,1  123.S    36.0  190.6  213,8   172.8  107.7  58.  47.3   826.3
REDXPLOY,I STAFFIrG REVIEW                 14.0  61.0  44.3  47.3  34.8  9.0  7.4  217.8    93.3  406.8  295.6  315,0  231.7  59.7 49.6  1.451.7
SALARY POLICY                               2.3  8.6  7.1  1.5  1.5  1.6  1.6   24.3    15.5   57.3   47.6    9.9   10.1  10.4  10.8   161.7
b-Total PUBLIC SECTOR PRODUCIVITY             21.7  98.2  83.6  74.6  52.4  19.2 16.2  346.0   144.8  654.7  557?0   497.7  349.5 128.2 107.8  2U439.7
C. SAC STUDIES t ADVISORY SERVICES            36.1  9S.5 115.0  98.2  70.8    -   -  419.6   240,9  663.4  766.7  654.5  471.7    -    - 2797.2
D. POVTY  ONITORING                           91.0  45.9 111,7  8.2     -    -   -  256.8   606.9  306.0  744.9   54.5             -    -    - 19712.3
E. PROJECT MANAGEET                           14,6  24.7  30.4  25.4  17.1  16.1  6.4  134.6    97.1  164.6  202,5  169.0  113.8 107.4  42.7   897.0
Total PROECT COSTS                            199.6 483.4 578.7 467U1 242.0 100.2 52.4 2,123.6  1,330.8 3 .222.9 3,857.9 3,114.3 1,613.6 668.3 349.4 14,157.1
~ 3   t28  _u  unUg3  zuggu2 u3 3J*S:G :::# :::8 :g:* ::1$  11:3g :uu 5ug  = ::g:u::::
-larb      -     -1               - 18:35-----------------------                                              ----
March Ili 1987 18:35



- 31 -
GHANA                                                 ANNEX  Ill
GHANA STRUCTURAL ASSISTANCE INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROJECT                       Table  3
Suaaars Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                           Totals Including Contingties
(CEDIS Million)                                             (USt '000)
198?  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993 Total     1997    1989    1989    1990    1991   1992  193   lotal
:::2=3::: ===== czz_:= =Cast Vs2=r. Uzas  ==s  =======  Z==:=S= :.===:.- VzOncre zsa===- 2==-s:==   z==CZ=__s
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
At ADVISORY SERVICES
1. LOCAL                        17.9  65.8  78.0 7n.9  52,0      -    -   292.7    119.7  438.6  520*0   526.2  346.7          -     -  1.951,i
2. OVERSEAS                     64,2 175,4 181,1 167.7  26.9      -    -   615.3    428,1 1,169.4 19207,4 1,117.8   179,6      -     - 4102#2
Sub-Total ADVISORY SERVICES        82.2 241.2 259.1 246.6  78.9      -    -   908.0   547.7 1,608.0 1,727.4 1,L44.0  526.2        -        69053.3
S. STUDIES                         12.0  41.0  33.1  29.2  25.5      -    -   140.8    80.0   273.1  220,6   194.7   170.1        -     -    938,5
C. TRAINING                         1.9  23.7  33.4  45.1  32.3  12.3  3.9  152.6    12.4  158.1  222.5   300.7  215.3  82.0  26,3  1,017,4
D. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                26.2  62.7  61,8  51,9  21,9   1.8    -  226.3    174.4   418.2  411.7   346.0  146.3  11.7          -  10508,3
E.  HEHICLES                       34.9  34.0  20.5  14.3      -     -    -   103.7    232.8   226,7   136.5    95.4        -     -     -    691.4
Total IKIESTNENT COSTS               157,1 402.6 407.8 387.1 158.7  14.1  3.9 1.531,3  1047.4 2,684#0 20718.7 2,580.8 1,057.9  93.8  26,3 10,209.0
It. RECRRENT COSTS
A. IKICREREIWAI  SALARIES         18,6  19,5 122.3  31.8  32.8  35.2  0.3  260.6   124,2   130.1   815.6   212,1   218.5 234.7  2.0  10737.2
9. YEHICLE/EOT
OPERATIOWiMAINTENANCE         23.9  61.3  48.5  49.2  50.6  51.0 48.2   331,6    159,2   408.8   323.6  321,3   337.2 339.8 321.1  2,211,0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 42.5  80.8 170.9  80,0  83,4  86.2 48,5   592.2   283.4  538.91.139.1   533.5  555.7 574.5 323.1  3*948.2
__:.  S=   Za: = :::S==--: ZC  MCC=3= :=__'S=== =Z S:5  aZz::: :==z=:  zz=:==:: :=:::_= ::::: :::::u :3: 
lotal PROJECT COSTS                   199.6 483.4 578.7 467.1 242.0 100.2 5244 2s123.6  1,330.8 3,22.9 3,857.9 3,114.3 19613.6 668.3 349.4 14,157.1
Ia== ::::_ ::: :===ve   ====11  1==7 1=8 :==35==:  s=:=s: =::-- zz==SS z:;                =:S        :X
latch 11 198 18:35



- 32 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 6
AGREED TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ODA ASSISTANCE TO GOG
Proposals for a Consultancy to
Assist the Ghana Government in its
Public Sector Reform Programme
1I        Following a short term review of the civil service as it is
currently operating in Ghana, and discusslons covering the planned
programme of civil service reform envis.ged in the ERP, and reflected in
the SAC negotiations with the World Bank, it is proposed to establish a
Civil  Servlce Review Consultancy  funded under  the U.K. Bilateral Aid
Programme to Ghana,
2.        The objectives  of such a Consultancy have been discussed in
general terms with Ghanaian/U.K. officials and Bank staff as part of the
SAC negotiations and the attached Terms of Reference for each of the
proposed components of the Consultancy have been reviewed and approved in
principle by the Ghanaian authorities concerned.
3.        In  the  light  of  the  understandings  reached  in  the  SAC
negotiations it is proposed that the selection of suitable Consultants will
now be initiated by ODA in accordance with established procedures. It will
be an aim of policy to have the selected consultants operational in Ghana
by July 1987, where they will be responsible to the OHCS and occupy
suitable accommodations provided by OTCS.
4.        Logistical support for the consultants will be provided by the
World Bank in respect of vehicles, office services and equipment, as
defined by the OHCS. It will be an essential ingredient of the Consultancy
that expatriate Consultants will work closely with Ghanaian staff l.e.
Staff Inspectors and officers nominated to carry out the Staff Audit
providing on-the-job training as appropriate - in addition they will
operate in close consultation with such Ghanaian Consultants as the Ghana
authorities may appoint to undertake related assignments in the Public
Sector Review.
5.        It is recognised that certain elements of the consultancy should
be accorded priority such as the Staff Audit and Redeployment/Staff
Reduction  review.    It  is also  recognised  that  some  elements  of  the
consultancy might be implemented simultaneously.
6.        Against this background it is proposed that, as a first step, a
review of the Public Service Act could be started immediately and at the
same time the consultancy concerned with proposing a Senior Staff - Interim
Salaries Award could also be initiated. With these factors in mind a bar
chart setting out the starting dates and duration of each consultancy will
be developed including the points at which interim or progress reports will
be  required.   The  bar  chart  projections  are based  on  the  following
assumptions:



- 33 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 6
(i) That the administrative arrangements for the approval,
selection, appointment, assignment of the Consultants follow
conventional patterns;
(ii)  That   the   allocation   of   support   services,   office
accommodations, secretarial assistance, etc. by the Ghanaian
authorities are provided and maintained throughout the
consultancy.
(iii) That no delays are encountered in the appointment of
suitable counter-part staff; and
(iv) That the highest priority is accorded by the Ghanaian
authorities to the circulation, return, and analysis of
questionnaires and returns associated with the Staff
Reduction programme.



-34-                             ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 6
Proposed Terms of Reference For A Civil Service
Management Consultancy ProJect:  Civil Service
Trainin and Staff Development Programme
In the light of the importance which the Ghanaian authorities
attach to the improvement of civil service productivity through the
introduction of an effectively coordinated functional training effort
designed to achieve the optimum utilization of existing training resources
and institutions on the most cost effective basis:
(a) The Consultants will review all pre-service and in-service
training courses, short and long term, to ensure that all
training is closely directed to meet the functional training
needs of officers at all levels.
(ii)  They  will  examine  the  training  components  of  approved
Schemes of Service to ensure that training programmes are
designed to respond to the departmental training needs of
specialized cadres as defined in the Schemes of Service.
(iii) They will review the operations of training institutions
such as GIMPA, the Civil Service Training Centre, the
Institute for Technical Supervision and the National Centre
for Development Strategies with a view to ensuring that
training programmes are responsive to the needs of the civil
service in managing the ERP including the training of staff
to fill known and anticipated vacancies and the upgrading of
serving staff to perform at higher levels.
(iv) They will examine the above mentioned training institutions
with a view to eliminating overlaps and duplications of
training operations and of ensuring the optimum utilization
of training resources, personnel, equipment and finance.
(v) They will review to arrangement for determining the types of
training programmes offered by individual institutions with
a view to ensuring that they respond to civil service staff
development priorities.  In this latter connection,  they
will examine the need for improved training coordination by
the establishment of some form of Central Training Advisory
Body through which Heads of Training Institutions and Heads
of Departments might evaluate the effectiveness of training
and advise OHCS of measures designed to improve the quality
of the civil service training effort.
(vi) They will review the machinery for allocating and utilizing
external training awards to ensure that fellowships are
assigned to meet the actual training work of the officers
concerned.
(vii) They will carry out such other duties related to the
foregoing as the OHCS may, in consultation with the ODA,
direct.



- 35 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 6
Proposed Terms of Reference
For A 'Civil Service Managem ntConsultancy
Project: Management Service Division
In the light of the crucial role played by the Office of the Head
of the Civil Service (OHCS) in the restoration of the Ghana Civil Service
to enable it to play its full part in the Economic Recovery Programmes:-
(i) to review the operations of the OHCS with special reference to
the improvement and expansion of the Management Services Division
to achieve full control over staff complements and gradings.
(ii) to examine the legislative framework within which the OHCS, in
particular, the Management Services Divislon, operates with a
view   to   ensuring   that   its   authority   to   execute   its
responsibilities is legally defined in the Public Service Act.
(iii) to review the need for an Organisation and Methods Unit to be
established as an integral part of the Management Services
Division   specifically  concerned  with   the  development   of
comprehensive systems and procedures, including procedures
manuals,   in  the  Accounts,  Personnel,   Shares   and  Audit
departments.
(v) to examine the suitability of existing procedures for collecting
and maintaining reliable data on civil service personnel and to
propose arrangements for the integration of personnel statistics
with payroll data so as to be susceptible to computerisation.
(vi) to examine existing Schemes of Service with a view to ensuring
that these fully reflect the current needs of the civil service
covering staff development, grading, training, recruitment and
promotion strategies and to devise such additional Schemes as
OHCS may direct.
(vii) to develop a short and long term staff development programme for
the specialist personnel in the Management Services Division with
a view to defining an appropriate establishment and the local and
external training Programmes necessary to equip such offices with
the skills needed for optimum performance.
(viii) to carry out such other duties related to the foregoing as the
OHCS may, in consultation with ODA, direct.



- 36 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 6
Proposed Terms of Reference For A Civil
Service Management Consultancy Project: Civil
Service Personnel Management Review
In the light of the importance which the Ghanaian authorities
attach to the establishment of a modern civil service properly trained,
graded and motivated to achieve public sector elements of the Economic
Recovery Programme:
1.        The Consultants would review all aspects of the civil service
personnel function within OHCS with special reference to the following:
(i) The legislative framework within which the OHCS exercises
its authority for all personnel actions, in iarticular
control over staff complements and gradings, the conduct of
staff inspections and organisation and methods reviews
including the authority to approve and coordinate all
internal and external civil service training, to prepare and
administer Schemes of Service, to carry out performance
appraisal reviews, and to determine salary policy, including
allowances and superannuation arrangements. In relation to
the above to make recommendations for the modification of
the Public Service Act to ensure that statutory authority
for such actions is clearly defined.
(ii) To review the need for a pragmatic civil sezvice manpower
plan covering 3-5 years establishing priorities for filling
known vacancies, and recruitment and training priorities
consistent with the implementation of the E.R.P.
(iii) In reviewing the personnel function the Consultants will
take  specific  account  of  the  revised  civil  service
structures and operating relationships reflected in the
Government's    decentralization    programme,    and    the
organizational relationships within OHCS  and the Cabinet
Secretariat.
(iv) To review procedures for staff performance evaluation and to
make recommendations.
(v) To examine the need for a Staff Relations Unit as an
integral part of the OHCS responsive to civil service morale
and welfare issues.
(vi) To carry out such other duties related to the foregoing as
the OHCS may, in consultation with ODA, direct.



- 37 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 6
Proposed Terms of Reference For A
Civil Service Management Consultancy
Project: Functional Review and Redeployment
In the light of the Ghana Government's employment policy in the
public sector which calls  for quantified reductions  in public secto'r
employment over the next three years the Consultants would be assigned to:
(i) Assist the OHCS, in particular the Management Services
Division,      in      designing      appropriate       survey
data/questionnaires, etc. with the object of achieving a
reliable staff audit of all posts and grades in the civil
service.
(ii) Provide training and guidance to Staff Inspectors and other
officers nominated to carry out the staff audit and to
provide assistance in the analysis of survey date with a
view to deciding on the level of staff rationalisation to be
applied in individual Departments.
(iii) To assist the Management Services Division in carrying out
work measurement reviews aimed at ensuring the optimum
utilization of staff at all levels and the elimination of
surplus personnel.
(iv)  To  assist  the  Management  Services  Division  in  the
preparation of detailed estimates of savings in personnel
involvement and other charges associated with proposed staff
reductions arising from the staff audit bearing in mind
ceilings prescribed in the Budget and the principles of the
Structural Adjustment Programme.
(v) To advise the OHCS of the desirability of using local
consultants to undertake specific aspects of the staff
reduction exercise and to prepare appropriate terms of
reference.
(vi) To carry out such other advisory assignments related to the
foregoing as the Head of the Civil Services (OHCS) may,
following consultations with ODA, decide.



- 38 -                      ANNEX V
Page 1 of 8
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
REGIONAL PROGRAMME FOR AFRICA: FOURTH CYCLE
Assessment of Social Dimensions of
Structural Adjustment in Sub-Saharan Africa
RAPF867037
Project Summary
IT Background
1.        Since the beginning of the eighties, a growing number of coun-
tries in Sub-Saharan Africa have embarked on structural adjustment programs
aimed at stabilizing the economy in the short to medium term while creating
the conditions for a resumption of self-sustained growth over the longer
term. While the first structural adjustment programs largely focussed on
the objectives of restoring macroeconomic equilibria and of reducing
incentives distortions, there is now a growing concern among Governments in
the Region, within the Bank, and generally within the international donor
communltv about the social implications of the structural adjustment
process.
2.        A first type of concern relates to the transitional cost of
ad4ustment for vulnerable groups, in particular the reduction in income,
employment, and access to social services which is generally experienced in
the intervening period when the contractionary impact of demand management
policies outweighs the expansion of economic activity resultirg from the
implementation of supply-side policies. A second type of .oncern relates
to the longer-term social implications of the structural Ldjvstment pro-
cess, in particular the need to foster the participation of the poor to the
process of economic growth by increasing their access to employment oppor-
tunities and income-generating assets,  and raising the productivity of
their assets, both physical and human.
3.        In most countries of Sub-Saharan Africa, however, the limited
availability of reliable data on income distribution and welfare indica-
tors, the limited capability to carry out quantitative and qualitative
assessments of the evolution of social conditions, and the relative weak-
ness of institutions in charge of macroeconomic management and coordination
make it particularly difficult to turn these concerns into operational
policies and programs.  To achieve this objective, there is a powerful
argument for a generic, region-wide endeavor which would capture the
benefits of scale in terms of establishing common statistical and analyti-
cal methodologies, and would promote cross-fertilization among country-
specific experiences in the development and maintenance of statistical data
bases on the social dimension of structural adjustment, the realization of
studies on the socio-economic implications of adjustment, and the rein-
forcement of the institutional capability of Governments to identify,
design and monitor poverty alleviation programs and projects to be
implemented in conjunction with structural adjustment programs.



- 39                        ANNEX V
Page 2 of 8
II. Project Objectives
4.        The objectives of the project are:
(i)  to strengthen the institutional capacity of participating
Governments to develop and maintain, in the framework of
their national accounting systems, adequate statistical data
bases on the social dimension of structural adjustment;
(ii)  to carry out studies on the socio-economic implications of
structural adjustment, with the objective of:
-    assessing trends in the economic and social status of
particular  population  groups  in  the  course  of
structural adjustment;
-    identifying  possible   linkages  between   structural
adjustment policies and changes in the socio-economic
conditions of specific population groups;
-    identifying  the  need  for  improvements  in  existing
poverty alleviation programs and for new programs aimed
at increasing the access of the poor to employment
opportunities   and   income-generating   assets,   and
improving the productivity of their assets, as well as
for programs aimed at mitigating the transitional
impact of adjustment on vulnerable groups; and
(iii) to strengthen the institutional capacity of participating
Governments to design and monitor poverty alleviation
programs and projects to accompany structural adjustment
programs.
III. Project Outputs
5.          Following the completion of an initial Concept Framework Papsr,
the project will produce three parallel streams of output: (i) micro and
macro statistical data bases on the social dimension of structural
adjustment; (ii) studies on the socio-economic implications of structural
adjustment; and (iii) identification, appraisal and monitoring of poverty
alleviation programs and projects to be implemented in conjunction with
structural adjustment programs.
(a) Concept Framework Paper
6.        Prior to start-up of the survey work and of economic and social
studies at the country level, the Project Unit at the World Bank is
preparing a Concept Framework Paper.  The objective of the paper is to
provide a conceptual framework to trace through the impact of structural
adjustment policies on the socio-economic conditions of specific population
groups, with a view to establish precise guidelines for the design of the



- 40 -                   ANNEX V
Page 3of 8
surveys and the data collection work for the economic and social studies.
This conceptual framework will take into account the policy reforms
generally implemented in the framework of structural adjustment programs
and their effects, both direct and indirect, on the income and consumption
levels of different groups in the population over the short, medium and
longer term.
(b) Statistical Data Bases
- Permanent Household Surveys. The project supports the design,
implementation and dissemination of the results of permanent
household surveys in each participating country. The surveys
will be based on the Living Standards Measurement System (LSMS)
developed at the Bank or, depending on local conditions, on
existing household budget surveys adapted to ensure compatibi-
lity with the LSMS framework. The surveys will be designed to
cover a broad range of socio-economic indicators concerning
employment, income, consumption, savings and credit, housing,
education, health, and nutrition.  They will be carried out
annually after an initial 8 to 12 months start-up period;
- Social Accounting Matrices. The project supports the develop-
ment and regular updating of social accounting matrices (SAM)
based upon the methodology developed at the Bank. The matrices
will be designed so as to trace income and expenditure patterns
for major  categories of households.   They will be updated
annually and will integrate the results of the permanent
household surveys.
(c) Economic and Social Studies
- Country Assessment and Policy Issues Paper. At the outset of
the project, a Country Assessment and Policy Issues Paper is
prepared for each participating country by the corresponding
Cotntry Team at the Bank. The paper focuses on: (i) a survey
of   available   macro   and   micro   level   information   on
socio-economic conditions in the country; (ii) a preliminary
assessment of the pattern of socio-economic conditions for
particular population groups; (iii) a preliminary assessment of
the need for improvements in existing, and for new poverty
alleviation programs and projects to accompany structural
adjustment programs; and (iv) an identification of key areas
for further study.
- Country Analysis of the Pattern of Socio-Economic Conditions.
Upon completion of the first half-year of survey work, an
analysis of the pattern of socio-economic conditions will be
carried out for each participating country by a team composed
of local researchers and outside consultants.   The analysis
will focus on: (i) an examination of socio-economic conditions
for particular groups of households on the basis of initial



- 41 -                     ANNEX V
Page 4 of 8
household survey data; (ii) an examination of the relationships
between macroeconomic aggregates and the pattern of income and
expenditure for broad categories of households, on the basis of
initial SAM data; (iii) an assessment of broad trends in
socio-economic  conditions  in  the  country;  and  (iv)  an
assessment of the implications of these trends for the design
of structural adjustment programs.
Study  of  the  Pattern  of  Socio-Economic  Conditions  in
Sub-Saharan Africa* Upon completion of the individual country
studies, the Project Unit will carry out, in collaboration with
the LSMS Unlt at the Development Research Department, the
Economic Analysis and Projections Department, and the Country
Policy Department a study of the pattern of socio-economic
conditions in Sub-Saharan Africa.  This study will focus in
particular on:  (i) a cross-country comparison of the pattern
of socio-economic conditions in Sub-Saharan Africa, on the
basis of the results of the household surveys and of SAM
analyses; (ii) a preliminary assessment of broad trends in
socio-economic conditions in Sub-Saharan Africa, based on the
results of the individual country studies; and (iii) a
preliminary assessment of the implications of these trends for
the design of structural adjustment programs in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
Country Analysis of the Evolution of Socio-Economic Conditions
Under Structural Adjustment. Upon completion of four rounds of
surveys, an analysis of the evolution of socio-economic
conditions under structural adjustment will be carried out by a
team composed of local researchers and outside consultants.
This  analysis  will  focus  on:   (i)  an  examination  of  the
evolution  of  socio-economic  conditions  under  structural
adjustment for particular groups of households; (ii) an
examination of the relationship between the evolution of
macroeconomic aggregates and the evolution of the patterns of
income and expenditure for broad categories of households;
(iii) an assessment of the impact of programs aimed at
alleviating the transitional costs of adjustment for vulnerable
groups; (iv) an assessment of the progress achieved in
integrating the social dimension in the design of structural
adjustment programs; and (v) policy recommendations for the
design of future adjustment programs.
Study  of  the  Evolution  of  Socio-Economic  Conditions  Under
Structural Adjustment in Sub-Saharan Africa. Upon completion
of the individual country studies, a study of the evolution of
the socio-economic conditions under structural adjustment in
Sub-Saharan Africa will be carried out by the Project Unit in
collaboration with the LSMS Unit, the Economic Analysis and
Projections Department, and the Country Policy Department. The
analysis will focus on: (i) a cross-country comparison of the



- 42 -                      ANNEX V
Page 5 of 8
evolution  of  socio-economic  conditions  under  structural
adjustment in Sub-Saharan Africa; (ii) an overall assessment of
the impact of compensatory programs and of the progress
achieved in integrating the social dimension in the design of
structural adjustment programs; and (iii) policy recommenda-
tions for the design of future structural adjustment programs
in Sub-Saharan Africa.
(d)  Design  and  Monitoring  of  Poverty  Alleviation  Programs  and
Projects
7.        The project supports the strengthening of Government entities
concerned with the identification, appraisal and monitoring of programs and
projects aimed  at alleviating poverty  in the framework of  structural
adjustment programs.  Specifically, the project supports: (i) carrying out
identification studies of poverty alleviation programs and projects to
accompany structural adjustment programs, in particular on the basis of the
preliminary needs assessment carried out in the framework of the Country
Assessment Paper and on the basis of the initial results of the household
surveys and SAM analyses; (ii) carrying out feasibility studies for such
programs and projects on the basis of economic cost-benefit and
cost-effectiveness project appraisal methodologies developed at the Bank;
and (Mii) carrying out evaluation studies of selected poverty alleviation
programs and projects implemented in the framework of structural adjustment
programsO
IV. Project Activities
8.        Project activities are being initiated for a core group of ten
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. This core group is being selected on the
basis of geographical coverage and range of initial conditions concerning
statistical data bases and institutional framework for economic and social
studies as well as planning, programming, and project design and
evaluation.  The country coverage will be progressively extended in the
course of the project cycle in function of requests received from other
countries in the Region, with the aim of ultimately covering twenty
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
9.        In each participating country, the project activity stream is
being designed in order to maximize complementarity and feedbacks between
the three parallel output streams, i.e., development of statistical data
bases, economic and social studies, and identification, appraisal and
monitoring of poverty alleviation programs and projects.  The pattern of
the activity stream is adjusted in particular in function of the status of
development of the statistical data base. In this respect, three groups of
countries may be distinguished. Group A includes countries where the full
development of the statistical data base is being financed under the
project, including the design, implementation and processing of the results
of the permanent household surveys, and the development and regular
updating of SAM data bases. Group B includes countries where a permanent
household survey is being launched with financing outside the project and



- 43 -                      ANNEX V
Page'6 of 8
where SAM data bases are not yet developed.  In these countries, the
statistical data base development activity stream focuses primarily on
providing support for the implementation of the permanent household survey,
the processing of survey data, the development of the Social Accounting
Matrix, and the regular updating of SAM data bases.  Group C includes
countries where a permanent household survey system is already operational
and financed outside the project, and where SAM data bases are already
developed.   In these  countries,  the  statistical  data base development
activity is limited to the processing of survey data and the regular
updating of SAM data bases.  In countries belonging to Group C, and to a
lesser extent Group B, the activity stream is adjusted to support an
accelerated schedule for the realization of the economic and social studies
and the identification, appraisal and monitoring of poverty alleviation
programs and projects.
V. Project Inputs
10.       Thie UNDP is establishing an Advisory Committee for the project,
to be composed of senior representatives from the UNDP, the World Bank, the
ECA, and other UN agencies concerned. The Committee will meet at regular
intervals to share information on the project among members of the UN
community.   The UNDP  is also  establishing  a Donor  Committee  for  the
project, to be composed of senior representatives from the UND?, the World
Bank,  other donors,  and participating Governments.  The Committee will
provide a vehicle for mobilizing funding for the project from bilateral and
multilateral donors.
11.       The World Bank will be responsible for the overall management and
control of the project. A Steering Committee of senior World Bank staff
acts as the supervisory body. Project activities are carried out by World
Bank staff, individual consultants and firms, and local institutions,
12.       Key project inputs are the following:
(a) World Bank Project Unit
13.       The World Bank is establishing at its Headquarters a Project Unit
led by a full-time World Bank staff member who is the Project Director.
The Project Director is responsible for the overall management and control
of the project, and for the coordination between the UNDP, the World Bank,
other donors, participating Governments and the UN Community. The Project
Unit is composed of (i) the Head of the LSMS Unit or his designate,
responsible for coordinating the design and implementation of the surveys
in each participating country, maintaining quality control of the survey
work and contributing to the analysis of the surveys in the framework of
the studies carried out by the Prolect Unit; (ii) a Survey Manager,
responsible for organizing the country household survey teams and for
monitoring the progress of the survey work in each participating country;
and (iii) a Senior Economist, responsible for coordinating the design and
implemention of the economic and social studies and of the project
identification, appraisal and evaluation studies carried out by the country



- 44 -                      ANNEX V
Page 7 of 8
teams, maintaining quality control of the economic work, and carrying out
analytical work for the studies carried out by the Project llnit.
(b) World Bank LSMS Unit
14.       The LSMS UTnit at the Development Research Department of the World
Bank contributes to the project in the following ways: (i) the Head of the
LSMS Unit or his designate is responsible, as a member of the Project Unit,
for coordinating the design and implementation of the surveys in each
participating country, maintaining quality control of the survey work and
contributing to the analysis of the surveys in the framework of the studies
carried out by the Project Unit; and (ii) the Unit contributes, jointly
with the Economic Analysis and Projections Departvent and with the Country
Policy Department, to the study on the pattern of socio-economic conditions
in Sub-Saharan Africa and to the studv of the evolution of socio-economic
conditions under structural adjustment in Sub-Saharan Africa.
(c) World Bank Country Teams
15.       The Country Teams at the Bank have prime responsibility to ensure
that project activities are well integrated within the Country Assistance
Strategy for each participating country. In this perspective, the Country
Teams are intimately involved at all stages of the design, implementation
and evaluation of the project. The Country Teams carry out, jointly with
members of the Project Unit, discussions with Government concerning the
setting up of the organizational structure and of the financing plan of the
project.  They are responsible, in particular, for preparing the Country
Assessment and Policy Issues Paper, for contributing to the design of the
surveys, SAMs, economic and social studies, and poverty alleviation
programs and projects, and for integrating the outputs of the project into
the economic and sector work and into the design of structural adjustment
programs for the country.
(d) Country Project Unit
16,       In each participating country, the Government is establishing
within the Ministry of Planning, the Central Office of Statisties or a
similar entity, a Country Project Unit composed of a Country Household
Survey Team and of a Country Economic and Social Analysis Team,
17.       The Country Household Survey Team is responsible for carrying out
the permanent household survey.  The Team is composed of civil servants
from the Ministry, field staff recruited from local institutions, and
consultants. The project finances international and local consultants and
firms, training of field staff, and equipment.
18e       Consultants and firms carry out the statistical design and the
overview  of  the  national  surveys.   Local  institutions  (universities,
statistical office, and consultlng firms) carry out the surveys using
trained enumerators and supervisors, and support staff.  Field staff for



- 45 -                    ANNEX V
Page 8 of 8
the surveys are recruited among the personnel of the local institutions and
are trained by the consultants.
19.       The  Team  is  responsible  for  organizing  seminars  at  regular
intervals during the implementation of the project to exchange and compare
experiences and to disseminate the results of the surveys to the various
Ministries concerned and to non-Government circles.
20.       The Country Economic and Social Analysis Team is responsible for
developing and regularly updating the SAM, for carrying out the studies on
the pattern and the evolution of socio-economic conditions under structural
adjustment, and for carrying out the identification, appraisal and
monitoring of poverty alleviation programs and projects to be implemented
in conjunction with structural adjustment programs.
21.       The Team is composed of civil servants from the Ministry, staff
recruited from local institutions, and consultants.  The project finances
international and local consultants and firms, training of local staff, and
equipment. Consultants and firms carry out the studies in collaboration
with the staff recruited from local institutions.
22.       The  Team  is  responsible  for  organizing  seminars  at  regular
intervals during the implementation of the project to discuss methodologies
and disseminate the results of the studies to the various Ministries
concerned and to non-Government circles.



- 46 -                              ANNEX IV
Amounts and Methods of Procurement 1/
Procurement Component                 ICB      LCB/LIB       OTHER        TOTAL
1. Consultants' services,
studies and PMU staff            -            -         6.9         6.9
(6.4)       (6.4)
2.  Training                            -           -         1.0          1.0
(0.4)       (0.4)
3.  Equipment, supplies              1.7          1.6         0.7          4.0
building materials,             (1.7)        (1.6)       (0.2)        (3.5)
and vehicles
4.  Operating and maintenance          -            -         2.2          2.2
costs for vehicles and                                   (0.5)        (0.5)
general services 21
Total                            1.7          1.4         11          14.1
(1.7)       (1.3)       (7.8)       (10.8)
1/   Contingencies and expenditures financed by the PPF are included in the
amounts shown. IDA contribution is indicated in parentheses.
2/   Includes salaries to civil servants financed by Government.



