E628
Volume 2
Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report
for the Project of
Circuit II Transmission Line from the
5OOkV Pumped Storage Power Station to Yili Substation






Executive Summary
This project, to be carried out by loan from the World Bank, is currently at the
stage of engineering route-option on the map.
Environmental impact assessment must be done for power transmission projects
according to relevant Chinese environmental protection management laws and
regulations. In accordance with Environmnental Assessment Policy (OP) 4.01 of
the World Bank, power transmission projects belong to catalogue B which need
not complete environmental impact assessment but corresponding environmental
impact analysis.
The content of the executive summary is listed as follows:
1. Description of the Project
2. Environmental background of the Project
3. Potential environmental impact
4. Suggested mitigating measures
5. Environmental management plan
6. Public participation
1 Description of the Proiect
This Project (the Project) is proposed to be the transmission line from the 500kV
Tong'guanshan Pumped Storage Power Plant to Yili Substation. Its route is all
located within Xinjie Town and Yixing Municipal tree farm, Yixing Municipality,
Jiangsu Province.
This transmission line (the Line) will be 2 6.3km long and built by double circuit
mounting on same tower.
2 Environmental background of the Project
The Line is from the 500kV step-up station of Tong'guanshan Pumped Storage
Power Plant to the 500kV Ylli Substation. Most section of the Line is located in
mountainous area on the south of Yixing Municipality and elevation difference of
2






the terrain the line will go through is quite big.
Elevations of the 500kV step-up station of Tong'guanshan Pumped Storage Power
Station and the 500kV Yili Substation are separately 300m and 25m.
Terrain along the line is generally downland (about 80%)and mountainous region
(about 20%). The topography trends lower from south to north. Plants are
composed of pinery mostly and some bamboo groves.
No resident is required to relocate for the Project. Tower foundations will occupy
an area of 0.27ha totally. And The Line crosses over neither any highway presently
nor river, but the proposed Ning-Hang highway.
There is no residential houses within 200m along the Line. And the Line is 2km
away from Yixing Municipal TV station antenna (beyond protective area of the
TV station).
3 Potential environmental impact
(1) During construction period
* Building of the line would produce construction dust and noises, resulting in
short-term impact on surroundings.
* Access roads of the line construction site will acquire some land where
vegetation would be affected in short period and will recover when construction is
over.
* Due to downland and mountainous region along the line, attention should be
paid to impact incurred by soil erosion during construction period on ecological
environment.
* The Line will go through manual wood yard. As confirmed by investigation of
forestry section of Yixing Municipal Forestry-Agriculture-bywork Bureau, there is
no plants and animals to be protected.
3



* In case the Line crosses proposed highways, manual wood yard and tea
plantation, it should span the area directly as possible according to design
requirement so as to reduce impact on ecological environment.
* As counted preliminarily, there are total 45 tower foundations for the Line that
occupy an area of 0.27ha approximately. The land to be taken up is wood land and
has a just small area scattered. The land occupation would produce minor impact
on ecological environment.
(2) During operation period
* Electric field and magnetic field produced outside the line corridor by operation
of the Line meet recommended limits. Meanwhile, audible noise is less than
5OdB(A). There is no impact on residential houses incurred because even over
200m away the side lines does not stand any residential house.
* The Line is 2km away from the Municipal TV Station beyond the protective area
of the TV Station. Radio interference produced by the Line in operation will not
affect any radio facility.
* During operation of the Line, no impact will produce on highways and existing
power lines the Line will intercross.
* The Line goes through mountainous area generally. Its construction has been
approved by local administration and has no impact on urban and township
construction.
4 Suggested mitigating measures
(1) During construction period
* Part of the line is located in mountainous area and its route-option and
positioning should avoid abrupt slopes, places apt to landslide, earth creep and
gulch and other bad geological regions. Reasonable tower positions should be
4



selected for this part of the line so as to reduce cubic meters of earth and stone to
be excavated, to decrease soil erosion and to mitigate impact incurred by
construction of tower foundations on environment.
* Historic relics should be handled according to the Antiquity Preservation Law of
the People's Republic of China once they are discovered during construction of the
line. Construction work should come to a halt in no time and it should be reported
to local antiquity preservation department. Meanwhile, shielding measures should
be adopted.
* No resettlement is involved in construction of the line; however, construction of
tower foundations will occupy land. Economic compensation should be made for
acquired land strictly according to Land Management Law of People's Republic of
China and relevant rules of the World Bank.
* When the line goes through manual wood yard, it should be built according to
design standards and so minimum woods would be cut.
(2) During operation period
* Self standing towers (without anchoring cables) are mostly used for transrnission
line stringing. Double circuit mounting on same tower is also adopted so that
minimum land would be occupied.
*The line corridor has been designed to avoid dense residential area. Electric field,
magnetic field and audible noise produced by the operational line have no impact
on residents.
* The Line has sufficient clear height when crossing proposed highway, which
would not cause impact on highway traffic.
* Strengthen education on electric power to residents near the line corridor so that
they can farm safely under the line corridor.
See mitigating measures in Table 1.
5



5. Environmental management plan
The mitigating measures of the Line have been presented according to
environmental analysis results. The environmental management plan has been
prepared for construction and operation periods of the Project. Refer to Table 2
(Page 16) monitoring plan of the environmental management plan.
6. Public participation
Local government, all administrations and the masses on the Project site
supporting construction of the Project consider it beneficial to development of
local industry and to enhancement of local living quality.
Table 1    Mitigating measures and cost
Phase      Issue        Mitigating Measure    Cost (thousand   Institutional  Supervisor
____________  Mesueyuan)              Responsibility
Constr-                                                           Jiangsu      Yixing
uction  Noise         Use low noise equipment                   Provincial   Municipal
Cover rain clothing and                    Electric     Environ-
Dust         spray water                   10            Power        mental
Recover       damaged                      Company      Protection
Ecological   vegetation timely when    Refer to RAP      (JPEPC)      Bureau
the construction ends                                   (YMEPB)
Land         Minimize          land
occupation   occupation
Clearance in
occupied   Do    compensation  in    Refer to RAP
land       accordance with laws
Training on
environment  Educate constructors          50
al protection
Subtotal                                   60
Opera-   Electric Field  To be designed strictly in
tion     and         compliance with design
magnetic   requirement
Training  on  Strengthen education to
environment  local   residents  and        50
al protection  training to managers
Subtotal                                   50
Total                                              110
Note: *Construction noise: use low noise equipment.
*Construction fly dust: cover naked soil mound with rain clothing and spray water on naked ground
periodically. Covering rain clothing and water spraying will cost 10,000 yuan.
*Units responsible for implement of these measures: JPEPC.
Supervision unit: YMEPB.
6



Table 2 Monitoring plan of the environmental management plan
Cost (thousand  Expenditure  Monitoring   Institutional
phase         issue                                                                   Supervisor
yuan)         usage         unit     responsibility
Constru-        Dust              10        Observation  State Power     Jiangsu         Yixing
ction                                        on site    Environme-    Provincial     Municipal
Agricultural         30        Supervision      ntal     Electric Power  Environmental
ecology                         on site    Protection    Company        Protection
Subtotal            40                      Research       (JPEPC)        Bureau
Operati-       Noise              60        Monitoring     Institute                   (YMEPB)
on                                           cost       (SPEPRI)
Electric field and     100        Monitoring
magnetic field                      cost
Subtotal           160
Total                   200
* Frequency of noise monitoring is twice during construction period and once every year during
operation period;
* Assess dust level and ecological environment through observation once per quarter during
construction period;
* Electric field and magnetic field will be monitored once per year during operation period;
* Monitoring factors: noise (Leq A) and electromagnetic field (electric field and magnetic field intensity).
* Monitoring unit: SPEPRI. Institutional responsibility: JPEPC. Supervisor: YMEPB.
7



1. Introduction
In order to support electric delivery from Three Gorges to east China and
requirement of Yixing Pumped Storage Power Station to be connected with the
system, Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company intends to use World Bank
loan to construct the Line from the 500kV Tong'guanshan Pumped Storage Power
Station to Yili Substation.
This environmental impact assessment (EIA) report describes direct and potential
environmental impact incurred by construction of this transmission line project
(called "the Project" below).
The report is composed of:
(1) Introduction
(2) Description of the Project
(3) Environmental background of the Project
(4) Environmental impact during construction period
(5)Environmental impact during operation period
(6) Scheme analysis
(7)Environmental management plan and mitigating measures
(8) Public participation
1.1 Necessity of construction of the Proiect
The Project will make use of loan from the World Bank. Jiangsu power grid is the
receiver end of east China power network to which Three Gorges transmit electric
power. And purpose of construction of the Project is exactly to support electric
delivery from Three Gorges to East of China and requirement of Yixing Pumped
Storage Power Station to be connected with the system. The Project will play a
part in peak regulation, making up low peak, systematic frequency adjustment and
phase regulation. It will be quite beneficial to improving reliability of the power
grid for supplying power. Therefore, it is necessary to accelerate construction of
the Project.
8



1.2Basis of environmental impact assessment for the Proiect
1.2.1 The law and regulation system in China
Since the promulgation of environmental protection law in 1989, China has
developed a comprehensive environmental protection law system. There have
established environmental protection organizations at state level, province level
and municipality level with sufficient scale. The following Chinese regulations are
the basis of environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the Project.
(1) Environmental Protection Law of the People's Republic of China
(2) Land Management Law of the People's Republic of China
(3) Antiquity Preservation Law of the People's Republic of China
(4) The  253   decree  State  Council,  Management   Regulations  for
Environmental Protection of Construction Project
(5) The 18 decree (1997) SEPB, Management Method for    Environmental
Protection of Electro-magnetic Radiation
(6) Document Huanfa[2001]17 SEPA, the Notice on Annunciation (the  first) of
Directory of Classified Management of Environmental Protection for Construction
Projects
(7) Document GJ324 (1993) SEPB, the notice on strengthening the
management of environmental impact assessment for construction project funded
by internationalfinancial institutions
(8) SEPA HJ/T24-1998 Technical regulations on environmental    impact
assessment of electromagnetic radiation produced by 500kV ultrahigh voltage
transmission and transfer power engineering
1.2.2 Relevant standards
* Environmental noise
GB3096-93 Standard of Environment Noise of Urban Area, class 2  [55dB (A)
at daytime, 45 dB (A) at nighttime] for environmental noise
* Electric field intensity limits
In case the transmission line stands close to dwelling, the electric field limit of the
undistorted electric field is 4kV/m at the height of 1.5m in the residential area,
9



which is deemed to be the recommended assessment standard for electric field.
* Magnetic field intensity limits
The limit O.1mT of International Radiant Protection Association for the public
radiation in one day is used as the recommended assessment standard of magnetic
induction intensity.
* Radio interference
GB 15707-1995 Radio Interference Limits of Aerial High-voltage AC Transmission
Lines: allowable value of radio interference at 20m away from side transmission
lines is 55dB( i- V/m) under the condition----it is sunny, frequency is 0.5MHz and
relative humidity is not more than 80%.
1.2.3 Requirements for power transmission project by the World Bank
The World Bank comments that power transmission project as one with provision
of extensive environmental risk that depends on project scale and position. The
incurred impacts are relevant to construction of the substation and risk of
electro-magnetic field (EMF).
Power transmission projects belong to catalogue B according to the World Bank
Environmental Assessment Policy (OP) 4.01 for environmental assessment. The
Project need not complete environmental impact assessment but some
environmental analysis.
1.2.4 Design reports of the Proiect
Engineering Programming Route-option Report of the 500kV Pumped Storage
Power Station-Yili Substation Circuit II Line, Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power
Design Institute, March 2000
1.2.5 Project commitment
In accordance with relevant environmental protection rules of China and the World
10



Bank, on May 21, 2001 the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company entrust
State Power Corporation Environmental Protection Research Institute (SPEPRI)
(holding class A environmental impact assessment certificate) to carry out EIA for
the Project.
The SPEPRI, a science research institute directly affiliated to State Power
Corporation of China, has one after another undertake the EIA for many projects
funded by Chinese government and international financial organization. Major
power transmission line projects are:
* East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project funded by the World
Bank
* Environmental supervision and monitoring for the Environmental Management
Plan of the East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
* Power transmission project of Beijing urban grid reconstruction funded by the
World Bank
*Jiangsu Provincial 220kV and 11OkV Power Transmission Projects in the year of
2002
* Nanjing 1 lOkV Power Transmission Project
* Zhenjiang llOkV Dashikou and Jingshan Power Transmission Project
* Wuxi 1 lOkV Power Transmission Project
* Nantong lOkV Power Transmission Project
* Lianyungang 1 lOkV Maopingxian Power Transmission Project
The Project has not gone into final survey phase of the routes yet. Through design
information and site survey, we know physical and social background of places
the Line may pass by and the living quality environment and have conducted
public participation and background measurement of electric field, magnetic field
and noise level. This EIA report for the Project has been prepared based on the
said work.



2.Description of the Proiect
The Line passes by Xinjie Town and the municipal tree farm, Yixing Municipality.
Terrain along the line is generally downland and mountainous region; the former
occupies about 80% and the latter about 20%.
In figure 2-1 route layout of the 500kV Pumped Storage Power Station-Yili
Substation circuit II line, we can see the Line route.Coming northward from the
Storage Power Station, the line turns left and goes westward through Nanmen
Mountain and Shanhua Mountain, spans programmed upper reservoir area of
Storage Power Station Phase II; and then turns right, passes through Jinshanwu,
crosses again upper reservoir area of Storage Power Station Phase II (the above
route has an elevation of 252m) and reaches west of Zhupo Mountain; the line
then spans northward proposed Ning-Hang highway and 220kV Yitao circuit I and
II lines, gets to west of Minnan Village, Xinjie Town and goes into the Yili
Substation.
With a type of LGJ 4 X 400 the Line is 6.3km long and will be built by double
circuit mounting on same tower.
Number of towers: 45
Land area to be occupied by tower foundations: 0.27ha
Refer to figure 2-1 route layout of the 500kV Pumped Storage Power Station-Yili
Substation circuit II line.
12



3 Environmental background situation
3.1 Physical environment
The route is located on south bank of Yangtze Delta and west of Taihu Lake
drainage area. The whole line is within hilly region on south of Yixing and does
not pass by rivers.
Hilly region of south of Yixing stands on east of Yili low mountain hilly area. It is
generally downland and mountain land along the Line and mountain land
occupies about 80% in terms of the line's length. The line mainly crosses over
Nanmen Mountain, Shanhua Mountain, Jingshanwu and Zhupo Mountain; their
elevations are 436.5-70.0m. Downland about 20% spreads generally at north foot
of Zhupo and Taohua Mountains and it has an elevation of approximately
70.0-25.0m. Topography along the line is complicated with obvious fluctuation.
Terrain along the line is high and most section is not affected by flood in rainy
seasons. However, due to high mountains and abrupt slopes along the line, runoff
might gather fast in ditches and valleys when rainstorm falls continuously so that
mountain torrents would happen at high speed. Towers should be set up far away
torrent gulches.
Refer to Figure 3-1(a) and Figure 3-1(b) physical background layout along the
Line.
Meteorological conditions of the Project are listed in Table 3-1 below.
13



Table 3-1 Meteorological conditions of the Project
Meteorological elements       Data       Meteorological elements     Data
Average temperature of a few years ( )  15.7  Average wind speed of a few years  3.0
mls
Lowest average month temperature( )  -0.6  Corresponding  prevailing  wind   SE
direction
Lowest   temperature  in   extreme   -13.1  Average of highest wind speeds of  13.8
condition( )                               a few years  m/s
Highest average month temperature( )  30.8  Corresponding  prevailing  wind  SE
direction
Highest  temperature  in   extreme   39.6  Highest wind speed of a few years  17.7
condition( )                                 m/s
Average annual rainfall of a few years 1241.2 Corresponding  prevailing  wind  SSW
(mm)                                       direction
Highest annual rainfall (mm)        1738.4 Average evaporation capacity of  879.1
water surfaces of a few years mm
Lowest annual rainfall (mm)         679.1  Highest    annual   evaporation  1223.3
capacity of water surfaces mm
Average precipitation days of a few  133.4  Lowest    annual   evaporation  703.6
years (d)                                  capacity of water surfaces mm
Average fog days of a few years (d)  27.0  Frostfree period  d              322.5
Average relative humidity of a few    80
years (%)
3.2 Social environment
At north latitude of 31    07 -31    37 and east longitude of 119     31 -120
03',Yixing Municipality located in south of Jiangsu Province is center of the delta
formed by Shanghai, Ningbo and Hangzhou, at the juncture of Jiangsu, Zhejiang
and Anhui Provinces.
As recorded in Yixing Municipal Statistical Yearbook of 2001, at the end of 1999
the whole municipality had an area of 2038.7km2 and a population of 1,082,400
with an average population density of 531 persons/km2. In 1999, the municipality
gained 17.5 billion Yuan of GDP and 42.28 billion Yuan of total output value of
industry and agriculture, of which total output value in industry was 39.26 billion
Yuan and in farming, forestry and animal husbandry was 3.02 billion Yuan.
14



Yixing Municipal High-tech Garden of Environmental Protection involved in the
Project, with programmed area of 38km2, had a population of 17394, GDP of
31.64 million Yuan, total industrial and agricultural output value of 71.4 million
Yixing Municipality has 75773.3ha of cultivated land and 40000ha of wood land.
And the High-tech Garden of Environmental Protection has 718. lha cultivated
land and 170.5ha of wood land. There is no nature conservation area and natural
habitat in the garden.
3.3 Ecological environment
The area of Jiangsu Province has developed for more than 6000 years with
cultivated land and manual river network. Nowadays selected substation sites
mostly cover cultivated farm field. There is no primary forest, wetland and variety
and species in inmminent danger.
Area'the Line goes through is mountainous region and downland with flourish
plants: mainly pines (massons pines, black pines and exotic pines), firs (cedar,
slash pines and Chisong pine) and vegetations in tea plantations. There are some
Mao bamboo woods, chestnut trees and teas scattered around the Line.
As confirmed by investigation of forestry section of Yixing Municipal
Forestry-Agriculture-bywork Bureau, there is no rare wildlife or creature
belonging to national key protection in wood yard the Line goes through.
15



4 The environmental impact during construction period
4.1 Identification of environmental impact
Identification of environmental impact during construction period of the Project is
listed in Table 4-1 below.
Table 4-1 Identification of environmental impact during construction period
Order               Item                         Environmental impact
1    Land occupation                    tower foundation occupation
interim occupation for construction
(see 4.2.5)
2    Mineral resources                No impact (see 4.2.4)
3    Hydrological conditions and flood  Not affected by flood generally (see 4.2.7)
4    Construction dust                Short-term impact on ambient air around
construction site (see 4.2.2)
5    Construction noise               Short-term  impact on constructors and
acoustic environment (see 4.2.3)
6    Sanitary water during construction  No impact (see 4.2.1)
7    Vegetation                       Vegetation damaged in occupied land; some
trees cut under the route through low hills
(see 4.3.1)
8    Wetland ecology                  No impact on wetland (see 4.3.3)
9    Scenic view                      Affected a little (see 4.5.3)
10    Highway                         Short-term (half a day) impact (see 4.4)
11   Influx of construction teams      * no cultural conflict
* to increase residential incomes (see 4.5.4)
12    Cultural relics                 No impact (see 4.5.1)
13    Scenery and places of interest  No impact (see 4.5.2)
14    Resettlement                    No resettlement required (see 4.5.5)
15    Water and soil conservation     Only a little of soil would be excavated
during construction of tower foundations,
with minor impact. Such impact will
disappear when construction is finished. See
4.3
16    Post and telecom  communication  No impact on the communication wires due
wires, power transmission lines and to a long distance away in design (see 4.4)
radio apparatus
16



4.2 Impact on physical environment
4.2.1 Impact on waters
Construction of tower foundations will be carried out in different areas along the
Line. Nearly 40 persons will be involved living in residential houses nearby or
temporary work shed. A little sanitary water would be produced.
During construction of tower foundations, mixing concrete needs water and so
attention should be paid to stopping turbid water from running off to affect water
bodies around.
The Project does not cross rivers and manual river net, the line does not span
water bodies and its construction has no impact on waters.
4.2.2 Impact on environmental air
During construction of tower foundation, little localized secondary fly dust caused
by naked soil may affect residents nearby temporarily. Such impact will disappear
when construction is completed.
4.2.3 Impact on acoustic environment
During construction of tower foundations, noise mainly comes from construction
machines and windlass for stringing. However, it has just minor impact at daytime.
4.2.4 Impact on geologic resources
From collected information and the geologic prospecting report for tower
foundations, there is no mine around, which would not affect exploration of
mineral resources.
4.2.5 Impact on land function
Land occupation of tower foundations will change the land function into industrial
land. During construction of tower foundations, it is necessary to acquire some
land temporarily, which would be cleared up. However, the acquired land will
recover when construction is over.
17



4.3 Ecological environment
The Line crosses over downland and mountainous land where trees are mainly
composed of manually planted pine trees with bamboo woods and tea plantations
scattered on some hillside and both sides of valleys. Hence, construction of the
line corridor needs clearing plants around tower foundations. There is no
aboriginal natural area or wild environment along the line.
Construction of the Line need acquire some land at interim such as equipment
transportation roads and walking paths etc.. All the occupied land will recover
after construction.
Tower foundations will take up an area of 0.27ha. As construction begins, the
existing vegetations would be cleared up.
A little of soil would be excavated temporarily during construction of tower
foundations and will be filled again when construction is completed. High-low
feet tower foundations and maintenance of naked soil should be applied according
to actual situation so as to conserve water and soil.
4.4 Impact on social environment
Construction of the Project does not cross highway and has no impact on highway
traffic.
A little localized dust would be incurred by construction of tower foundations and
has no impact on surroundings generally.
The Line does not intercross or be parallel with important lines of communication
and so has no impact on communication facility.
18



4.5 Impact on living quality environment
4.5.1 Impact on cultural resource
(1) Culture&education, sanitary and recreation locations
There is no hospital, school, sanatorium or reaction location even over 200m away
both sides of the Line; so there does not exist impact on culture&education,
sanitary and recreation locations.
(2) Impact on historic relics
From collected information and as confirmed by local cultural relic authority, there
are no cultural relics within the Project area.
4.5.2 Impact on scenic spots and places of interest
There is no scenic spots or places of interest in the area involved in the Project.
And so no impact could be produced on such spots.
4.5.3 Impact on scenic view in the Line area
Construction of the Line would incur temporary impact on scenic view around.
4.5.4 Influx of labor force
(1) Principal work of the Line's construction is undertaken by professional staff
who have been trained on special technology usually from electric construction
companies within Jiangsu Province territory. Due to specialty of their work, they
cannot be replaced by locals. However, some local staff may be hired to take up
foundation excavation, transportation of cubic meter of earth and stone,
conveyance of building materials and road building and repair etc.. That can offer
locals some temporary work opportunities.
19



(2) The mass of construction people will locally increase the consumption and
demand of social commodities and services.
(3) Demand of a great deal of building and constructing materials for the Project's
building will promote development of local building material industry, initiate
direct or indirect employment opportunities for the locals and forward the
development of local economy and enhancement of living standard of local
people.
(4) For the construction team, its company has prepared stringent regulations and
management methods. All staff must observe the regulations and will not affect
social order much.
4.5.5 Land occupation and resettlement & rehabilitation
(1) From initial statistic results of present progress of the Project, tower
foundations of the line occupy 0.27ha.
(2) The Project does not involve house relocation and so there is no issue
associated with resettlement.
(3) During construction period, some land would be acquired temporarily and
should recover planting or afforestation when construction is completed.
(4) In terms of land occupation and compensation, the project-constructing
unit-Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company has trusted East China
Reconnaissance Design Institute (ECRDI) with this task. This report explains the
issue only in principle. Refer to the RAP for the Project by ECRDI about relevant
details.
(5) The ownership of land belongs to the state as prescribed in Chinese laws.
Farmers etc. natural persons and enterprises just own right to use land. The state
conducts uniform programming and management of land usage. For land
requisition activity by the project-constructing unit, associated requisition
procedures must be implemented stringently in compliance with Land
20



Management Law        and other relevant laws of China. Existing land users will be
compensated according to the above laws for their right of land use and for crops.
5 Potential environmental impact during operation period
5.1 Identification of environmental impact
Identification of environmental impact during operation period is listed in
Table 5-1.
Table 5-1 Identification of environmental impact during operation period
Order               Item                             Environmental impact
1           Land occupation         The Lines' permanent occupation, land function damaged,
see 5.3.2
2         Electro-magnetic field                   Minor impact, see 5.2.4
3                Noise             Certain impact on acoustic environment see 5.2.3
4           Wetland ecology                        No impact see 5.3.4
5              Vegetation              Some vegetation would be cleared up by the tower
foundations
6             Rare animal                           No impact, see 5.3.1
7               Highway              Designed in compliance with Design Technical Code of
Aerial Transmission Line etc., no impact see 5.4.1
8     Wire and radio communication                  No impact see 5.2.4
9            Cultural relics                        No impact see 5.4.5
10             Scenic view                           No impact see 5.4.6
11            Human health                           No impact see 5.4.4
12         Influx of operators        no cultural conflict
commercial income increased  See 5.4.7
5.2 Impact on physical environment
5.2.1 Impact on waters
The Line does not cross over rivers and so has no impact on waters.
21



5.2.2 Impact on environmental air
Transmission lines during operation period have no impact on air environment.
5.2.3 Impact on acoustic environment
Noise level of right-of-way abroad or at home is usually below 5OdB(A). The
actual measurement results of audible noise for East China 500kV transmission
lines    (Renzhuang-Huaiying,     Huaiying-Jiangdu,   Jiangdu-Wunan,
Doushan-Huangdu and Shipai-Shengpu) show: noise value under right-of-way is
40.2-48.8 dB(A); it is estimated that noise level under corridor of newly built
transmission lines will be less than 5OdB(A) under normal power frequency. Noise
cause by the Line will not affect residents because there is no residential houses
within 200m away the Line.
5.2.4 Impact on radiation environment
(1) Transmission lines
* Electric field intensity and magnetic field intensity of the Project is separately
0.850-0.910V/m and 0.023  104_0.019  104mT, far less than recommended
limits of 4kV/m and 0.1 mT.
-From actual measurement results for transmission lines under operation, it can be
estimated that electric field intensity within 40m wide belt area under the proposed
500kV transmission line (two circuits) corridor is between 3.802-7.807kV/m and
high values occur below ingoing and outgoing line generally. By means of analog
monitoring, it is estimated that electric field intensity within 40m wide belt area
under the newly built 500kV transmission line (two circuits) corridor borders upon
actual measurement results. The analog monitoring results shows: ground electric
field intensities (at 1.5m high) outside the Line corridor in operation are almost
less than the limit 4kV/m. Magnetic field intensity produced by operational 500kV
transmission lines is 4.928  10-3 6.888  10-3mT, far less than recommended limit
of O. lmT. It can be estimated that magnetic field produced by the Project will be
far less than the recommended limit of O. lmT.
(2) Radio interference
22



Based on collected relevant information and actual measurement results, radio
interference level of 5OOkV transmission lines is known less than 44-46 dB(
V/m), below standard limit of 55 dB  V/m  . It can be estimated that radio
interference produced by the proposed 5OOkV Line will meet relevant standard.
The Line, 2km away from television antenna of Yixing Municipal TV Station, is
beyond protective area of the station without impact incurred on the station.
5.3 Imipact on ecological environment
5.3.1 Impact on rare birds
There is no migration route of rare birds around the Line and so no impact on rare
birds will be incurred by the Project.
5.3.2 ImDpact on ecology
Tower foundations will occupy down land and mountainous area and some trees
will be cut, which would damage vegetation around the foundations. High trees
near the line corridor will be cut; the Line should be built strictly according to
design requirements for sake of minimum trees to be cut. The line will be built up
by double circuits and direct spanning.
5.3.3 Impact on ecological environment incurred by electric field and
noise
(1) Electric field will not affect growth of crops and other plants.
(2) It has not been found that electric field is likely to bring any harmful influence
to wilcl animals in their action or health. When the electric field intensity is up to
12kV/in, domestic animals' health and action are not affected at all.
23



(3) Operational electric field intensity of the Line will not have impact on bird
activity.
(4) All kinds of poultry or wild animals can live as usual under or near the
transmission lines. Some research results show that audible noise of right-of-way
have no impact on wild animal habitat.
5.3.4 Impact on ecological environment of wetland
Tower foundations of the line does not occupy wetland without impact incurred on
wetland
5.4 Impact on social environment
5.4.1 Impact on traffic incurred by transmission line operation
The Line has been designed in accordance with Technical Regulation on
Design of Aerial Transmission Lines, SDJ3-97 and other relevant technical
specifications for aerial transmission lines intercrossing highways and rules
concerned. The line intercrossing highways have sufficient headroom without
impact on traffic.
The line of the Project will cross over proposed Ning-Hang Highway and its
potential impact on the highway has been taken into consideration in design. It can
be estimated that operation of the Line will not affect traffic.
5.4.2 Intercrossed transmission lines'impact
The Line has been designed in accordance with Technical Regulation on Design of
Aerial Transmission Lines, SDJ3-97 and other relevant technical specifications and
rules. This proposed 500kV transmission line, crossing over the 220kV Yitao
circuit I and II, will increase towers' height. Therefore, the Line over the 220kV
ones have no impact on them.
24



5.4.3 Impact on environmental sensitive areas
There is no sensitive areas within 200m away the Line such as residential quarters,
schools and hospitals etc.. It will not affect residents nearby.
The Line is 2km away from the Municipal TV Station beyond the protective area
of the Station. In design, the Line has been far away or passed by radio
communication facilities, for which radio interference level incurred will meet
recommended limit.
5.4.4 Impact on cultural resources, scenic spots and places of interest
There are no schools, hospitals, cultural relics and scenic spots and places of
interest even over 200m away the Line. Hence, no impact would be produced on
them when the Line is in operation.
5.4.5 Impact on scenic views
The Line has been designed to avoid resident gathering areas, towns and township
programming area as far as possible. There will be no harmful impact on scenic
views.
5.4.6 Iiiflux of labor force
It is mainly professionally trained technicians that conduct routine operation when
the Project is completed. Similar with influence of the labor influx during
construction period, the operating personnel would not generate inflict with locals
in employment and culture.
25



6 Scheme analysis
6.1 Impact with no newly built substations and power transmission
lines
(1) Jiangsu Province lacks of available water resources and has no much
exploitable coal resources. Consequently, with the coal fired thermal power plant
for main electric power supply, Jiangsu power grid needs to transport coal from
other regions, which meanwhile increases pressure of environmental protection in
the provincial area. The State Environmental Protection Administration performs
total amount control of environmental capacity, for which it is quite difficult to set
up another new electric power supply point on both sides of Yangtze River.
(2) Tong'guanshan Pumped Storage Power Station is a project of environmental
protection and energy conservation. Electric power supply is generally coal-fired
power plants because there is no hydroelectric power plant and only a few oil-fired
power plant within Jiangsu power grid. Due to single power supply structure of
the power network, the units' function of peak regulation is weak, which causes
peak regulation capacity of units in the whole province to be insufficient seriously.
play a part in peak regulation, making up low peak, systematic frequency
adjustment and phase regulation.
In conclusion, it is quite necessary to construct the Project.
6.2 Schemes comparison
The 500kV Storage Power Station-Yili Station circuit H line had four rout-option
schemes: the recommended scheme, east scheme, mid scheme and west scheme.
East scheme: the line comes northward from the Storage Power Station and turn
right, passes by the upper reservoir area of programmed Storage Power Station
Phase II, stretches down north edge of mountainous area being parallel with
Ning-Hang Highway along and goes westward into Yili Substation.
Mid scheme: the line comes northward from the Storage Power Station and turns
left, passes through Shishi Nunnery relics and Dahanka, goes northwest along the
26



airline between the Storage Power Station and Yili Substation into the Substation
finally.
West scheme: the line comes northward from the Storage Power Station and turns
left, goes westward through Shanhua Mountain from south and west of the
mountain and passes by upper reservoir area of programmed Storage Power
Station Phase II, crosses over Luohan Mountain and turn right, goes northward
through Taohua Mountain till Yili Substation.
Due to upper reservoir area of programmed Storage Power Station Phase II and its
water level limit, mid scheme was eliminated. West scheme's total route and route
through mountainous area are both long. This scheme has no obvious advantages
and was not considered any more.
The final selected scheme and east scheme have their own advantages. The
recomnmlended scheme's advantage is its total route and route through
mountainous area are both short and has minor impact on programmed Storage
Power Station Phase II; while its disadvantage is construction and operation
conditions are poor and it crosses over upper reservoir of the Storage Power
Station several times. East scheme's advantage is route through mountainous area
is short with obvious environmental protection advantage and good construction
& operation conditions; while it has a disadvantage of bringing a certain impact
on programmed Storage Power Station Phase II. However, these two schemes can
meet requirements for building 500kV transmission lines.
For sake of impact on construction of Storage Power Station Phase II,
recomnumended scheme is adopted finally.
27



7 Environmental management plan and mitigating
measures
This report puts forward correspondingly environmental controlling and
monitoring program and mitigating measures according to environmental impact
produced by the substation.
7.1 During construction period
(1) In design, some distance between transmission lines and residential
quarters/sensitive areas has been taken into account, meeting relevant design
regulations and environmental requirements, to ensure safety of residents around.
(2) Stringing of transmission lines when crossing highways and rivers should shun
traffic rush time; in design, headroom distance of conducting wires has been
considered fully so as to ensure highway traffic safety and transmission line
operation safety.
Refer to Table 7-1 about mitigating measures of the substation (page 33).
7.2 During operation period
(1) Promote propagation and education on electric equipment safety knowledge
among the masses near the Line, and advise residents close to the substation of the
way to do agricultural production safely.
(2) Fix warning signs on tower foundations of the Line to advise residents not to
stay under the line corridor for a long time or climb towers.
Refer to Table 7-1 about mitigating measures of the substation (Page 33).
7.3 Land occupation and compensation
Tower foundations would occupy certain amount of land. The mitigating and
compensating measures to be made are as below:
28



(1) Construction sites and entry roads occupied by the tower foundations during
construction period should be used as short and small (time----about half a year
and area) as possible. Besides, corresponding economic crop outputs should be
compensated when using the land as well as paying land rent.
(2) The following actions should be taken for the land to be occupied permanently
by the tower foundations:
The project-constructing unit ought to give compensation according to area of
occupied land-paying requisition compensation charge according to Land
Management Law.
7.4 Resettlement and rehabilitation
The Project does not involve resettlement but land occupation and so economic
compensation should be made for acquired land according to Land Management
Law. Refer to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the Project by ECRDI about
relevant details.
7.5 Cliltural resources
In case something is found by constructors during construction of the tower
foundations, the site should be protected and construction work must be halted
according to Chinese law. After the find is reported to local antiquity protection
department, the department will make an assessment on it. Construction cannot be
continued until the department grants permission.
7.6 Scenic views
The Line trend, approved by local administration, avoids urban and township
programming areas. Besides the Line is located in downland and mountainous
region; tlierefore, it does not affect scenic views along the Line.
29



7.7 Protection of ecological environment
(1) Access roads of the tower foundations would damage plants on the ground
surface for a short term. The occupied land and production should recover in time
in order to maintain ecological environment when construction is finished.
(2) Design of the Line route should be optimized: under design conditions, towers
of the line going over low hills should be designed strictly in compliance with
design requirements and the Line should cross over the area as possible to
minimize tree lop and keep ecologic environment balanced. JPEPC is responsible
for this work.
(3) High-low feet tower foundations and maintenance of naked soil should be
applied according to actual situation so as to conserve water and soil.
7.8 Labor safety and protection
Labor safety and protection of the Project during construction and operation
periods will be carried out according to requirements of two rules-Interim
Provisions On Occupational Safety and Health Supervision of Producibility
Construction Engineering Projects (Labor Administration) and Interim Provisions
of Implementing "Three Synchronousness" for Labor Safety and Industrial Health
of Producibility Construction Engineering Projects (Energy Administration). This
work will be in the charge of construction unit.
7.9 Monitoring management
(1) During construction period
Impact on ecological environment on the temporary occupied land will be
monitored for construction of the substation. And the construction unit will be
supervised for the purpose of occupying little cultivated field as possible and
reverting ecological environment timely on the temporary occupied land.
30



(2) During operation period
Environmental pollution should be monitored aperiodically along the Line.
(3) Monitoring during construction period
The assessment institute----State Power Environmental Protection Research
Institute will monitor environmental impact during construction period of the
Line.
The major monitoring factors are construction fly dust and ecological
environment.
Construction dust will be monitored twice during construction period. Ecological
environment will be monitored once during construction period.
Monitoring methods: construction dust and ecological environment will be
monitored generally by observation for assessment of damaged vegetation.
Monitoring places: selected 5-10 tower foundations along the line.
(4) Monitoring during operation period
The assessment institute----State Power Environmental Protection Research
Institute will monitor environmental impact during construction period of the
Line.
During operation period of the substation, the major monitoring factors are
operational noise and electromagnetic field.
Monitoring frequency: operation noise ----one time per year and electric field
intensity and magnetic field intensity----one time per year. In case local residents
complain, measurement should be made additionally.
Monitoring methods: noise level is measured as required in relevant regulations of
31



Measuring Method of Environment Noise of Urban Area (GB/T14623-93) and
Method of Measuring Noise at Boundary of Industrial Enterprises (GB 12349-90);
and electromagnetic radiation is monitored according to the recommended method
in Monitoring Apparatus and Method of Electromagnetic Radiation
HJ/T1O.2-1996.
Monitoring device: adopt noise, electric and magnetic field apparatuses in
compliance with monitoring rules same as those ever used in monitoring for the
East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project----environmental noise is
measured with a HS5670 integral sound level meter and electric field and
magnetic field will be measured with an American Holaday 1H-3604 field
intensity meter.
Environmental monitoring in the Project will adopt apparatuses and equipment
Detail cost is listed in Table 7-2 (page 34)
7.10 Mraining plan
(1) During construction period
Constructors' training on environmental protection and construction safety will be
carried out by the construction unit and constructor company to enhance their
consciousness of environmental protection.
Constructors are educated by means of holding talks and paper publicity.
The constructor company and Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company will be
responsible for the training.
(2) During operation period
Operators' training on environmental protection and construction safety will be
carried out.
Environmental training's subject is mainly environmental protection and
32



safety----environmental impact assessment of transmission                line  projects  and
prevenitative and protective measures for electromagnetic radiation of transmission
lines.
The constructor company and Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company will be
responisilble for the training.
The Project has not begun yet and so detailed training schedule could not be
decided inicluding training time, venue and staff.
Jiangsu   Provincial Electric Power Company has set up special environmental
protection posts in Power Supply Bureaus of each city. Environmental protection
speci; lists are assigned to these posts as full-time managers, responsible for actual
environmental protection work of power supply Ullits.
Table 7-1 Mitigating measures and the cost
Phase       Issue        Mitigating Measure          Cost         Institutional
(thousancd yuan)  Responsibility
Constr-        .                 .     .                             Jiangsu        Yixing
uction      Noise      Use low noise equipment                     Provincial     Municipal
GLuai-d fence and water                     Electric    Environmental
Dust               spray                  10             Power        Protection
cological  Recover damnaged               Company         Bureau
E  .cologica         d  acd
environment  vegetation timely when the  Refer to RAP
ciivir.onment  construction ends
occupation   Minimize land occupation
Clearance in    Do compensation in       Refer to  AP
occupied     accordance with laws
land
Trainiing on
environment     Educate constructors         50
;,l plrotection
Subtotal                                    60
Operati- E1lectric
on       Field and  Design it strictly according     -
magnetic     to design requirement
fiield
Triaining on   Strenigthen education to
cnvironment  local residents and training     50
;a protection       to managers
Subtotal                                    50
Total                                                 110
Note: *C' '!1StuCtion noise: use low noise equipment.
*C(Il strIction fly dust: cover naked soil mound with rain clothing and spray water on naked ground
pI 'odically. Covering r ain clothing and water spraying will cost 10,000 yuan.
33



Table7- 2 Monitoring plan of the environmental management plan
Cost        Expenditure  Monitoring    Institutional
phase        issue                                                                  Supervisor
(thousand yuan)    usage         unit      responsibility
Constru-       Dust               10         Observation  State Power    Jiangsu        Yixing
ction                                          on site   Environme-     Provincial    Municipal
Ecological           10        Supervision      ntal     Electric Power  Environme-
environment                     on site       Protection    Company          ntal
Subtotal           20                        Research                   Protection
operation      Noise             60         Monitoring     Institute                   Bureau
cost           SPEPRI
Electric field and     100        Monitoring
magnetic field                   cost
Subtotal           160
Total             180
* Frequency of noise monitoring is once per quarter during construction period and once every
year during operation period;
* Assess dust level and ecological environment through observation twice during construction
period;
* Electric field and magnetic field will be monitored once per year during operation period;
* Monitoring factors: noise (Leq A) and electromagnetic field (electric field and magnetic field).
34



8. Public participation
The Project will use loan from the World Bank. In compliance with requirements
of the \Vorld Bank and China on loaned projects' EIA, opinions and suggestions
have been collected widely from all circles of the society by holding talks,
handing out public consulting forms and reporting through news media.
Public participation investigation of the Project was carried out by soliciting
suggestions from affected mass along the Line.
8.1 Public participation investigation
In order to soliciting ideas and suggestions from residents affected by construction
of the lProject upon the Project and its environmental protection, we made this
specia!, 'ed investigation at Xinle Village, Xinjie Town by means of holding talks
and harding out public consulting forms.
AccuraLe place: Xinle Village, Xinjie Town, Yixing Municipality. Representatives
who p:rticipated the talk were director from committee of Xinle Village and
villagers and so on. Time: in the morning of August 22, 2002. Name list of the
repres .tatives is in Table 8-1 below.
35



Table 8-1 Name list of representatives attending the public participation,
Name        Gender            Unit name           occupation    teleph .ie
Wang Fengjiao   Female     Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmner       052 i 8
Yixing Municipality                    7131798
Xu Qilin      Male     Nanwei, Xinle Village, Xinjie  Farmer       05213
Town, Yixing Municipality                 713 [ 525
Ding Hexing     Male      Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer        052 I
Yixing Municipality                    7131525
Bo Hongsheng     Male     Yizong Group, Xinle Village,  Farmer        05218
Xinjie Town, Yixing                    713:1525
Municipality
Jiang Deshun    Male      Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer        05218
Yixing Municipality                    7131525
Xie Minfang    Female     Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer        0521 S
Yixing Municipality                    713 1999
Tu Dawei       Male      Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer        052 i8
Yixing Municipality                    7131022
Xu Falin      Male     No. 188 Xinle Village, Xinjie  Farmer       05218
Town, Yixing Municipality                 7131562
Yi Kuansheng    Male      Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer         052 18
Yixing Municipality                    7131311
Pan Jiulong    Male      Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer         05218
Yixing Municipality                    7131486
Ling Youde     Male      Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer         05218
Yixing Municipality                    7131186
Yao Wenzhen    Female     Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer        05218
Yixing Municipality                    7131186
Zhang Caijun    Male      Xinle Village, Xinjie Town,  Farmer        05218
- Yixing Municipality                   7131798
(1) Public investigation content
Main content told residents near the Line is potential impacts incurred by the
Project construction and precautions in the future.
(2) General description of public participation investigation
36



In this investigation, 15 public consulting forms (see Table 8-2) were handed out
near the transmission Line, of which 13 were returned and the returning rate is
86.7%. Among the public participators, those having primary school education is
23.1% and those having middle school or higher education is 76.9%. And woman
represenitatives occupy 23.1% of all persons.
See consulting results of these forms in Table 8-3.
37



Table 8-2 Public consulting form of the 500k Line
Intellectual
Name             Age          Sex                                Profession
level
Working unit
Telephone
and addressing:                                       Telephone
Select (please write in )
1  You think current economic development is:
Very good   Better    Ordinary    Worse
2  The main problem impacting economic development of region on the spot is:
Electric power supplement  Traffic condition  Nature source  Other  Not known
3  You think whether construction of this power transmission project will be good for pulling regional
economic development on the spot or not:
Yes     No      Ordinary    Not known
4   You think construction of this power transmission project is:
Very necessary  Ordinary     Little significant
5   You think the main problem of environment on the spot is:
atmosphere   Water body    Noise    Dust    Other   Not known
6   By this power transmission project construction, the living quality of local residents will be:
Enhanced greatly  Enhanced    Little changed  Deteriorated   Lowered seriou.s y
7  Which environmental impact will be brought by this power transmission project construction:
Agricultural farming  Bioecology environment   Electro-magnetic radiation  Noise
Land occupation  Impact on scenic viewlmpact on traffic  Not known
Answer
1.What impact will be drawn to the society and your family do you think with this power transmnission
project construction?
2.Please talk about some advice and opinion relevant to environmental protection of this power traiismission
project construction.
(It can be appended paper if this list is not big enough for writingo)
3S



Table 8-3 Public consulting results
Item                         Question               Result (%)
Electric power supp' mient         7.6
ProblciIn impacting economic        Traffic conditio'l             15.4
development                    Nature SOuIce                46.2
Other                     38.4
Atmospheric polltition           46.2
Water pol luLioll             38.4
Main pr-oblem of environment on       Noise poll0utio                38.4
the spot                    Dust pollutionI                0
Other-                     7.6
ConstruLction of the Project can imrprove living quality of loczW r esidents  84.6
Bioecology en vii-on -nent        15.4
The Plroject has impact on     Electro-maglnetic ru.l-ition       92.3
suLr-oundings                     Nois:                     46.2
Land occUti_____-              23.1
Agricultur.al Ikirm11 ug         7.6
(3) Opinions on the Project from the public near- the 58')OkV substations
Constructioni of the Project will be good for re(ri ixil economic development on
the spoi, can increase employment opportunities :inC cinhance living quality of the
public.
Construction of the Project should make ccowmitc compensation for the
occupiedcl land and acquired land at interim.
Conk Iruction on the Project should make * co(-) inic compensation for cut
economic forest and occupied tea plantation.
ENIF and operational noise impact on Cl]'jrcl-nent cause by the 500kV
subst,' ion was concerned much by the public ind 1     scussed ardently. Persons of
relev;a' specifics made detail introduction of reicvw  issues and dissolved worries
of the - iblic.
In response to problems put forward by the mass. coi;cerning professionals made a
39



detail explanation to residential representatives in terms of potential enviroiinental
impact caused by power transmission construction. The acquired land must be
compensated stringently according to relevant national regulations (including land
occupation and young crops compensation). Electromagnetic field of the
transmission lines in service was described in detail to the representati\es in
addition to some respects to be cared about in future life and production. As long
as residents keep far away the substation and transmission lines, electromagnetic
field around them can meet the limit value.
From investigation of the route, the 5OOkV Line is more than 200m away
residential houses. The residential representatives thought that construction of the
Project would not bring impact on them in terms of the Ling route.
8.2 Public participation investigation results
Local government, all functional departments and the masses on the Projcct sites
supporting construction of the Project consider it beneficial to development of
local industry and traffic and to enhancement of local living quality; long-term and
short-term occupied land should be compensated in accordance with Chinese
standards.
40



Contents
Executive Summary
1. Description of the project .................................                              1
2. Environmental background of the project ...............................1.............. 
3. Possible environmental impact ....................... ................................. 2
4. Suggested mitigating measures ......................................................... 3
5. Environmental management plan ...............................                             5
6. Public participation ...............................6...................................... 6
Environimental Impact Assessment Report for 'lie Project of Circuit II
Transmission Line from          the 500kV     Pumped      Sto r!age Power Station to Yili
Substi t ion
1.Introduction ................................................................................. 8
1.l Necessity of construction of the Project ...................8
1.211asis of environmental impact assessment foi lie Project                  .9
1.2.1 The law and regulation system in Chii          ..9
1.2.2 Relevant standards ...................9
1.2.3 Requirements for power transmission p           ject by the World Bank ... 10
1.2.4 Design reports of the Project ................. ........................................ 10
1 .2.5 Project commitment ........................... ........................................... 10
2. Description of the Project                ..12
3. Env' ioonmental background situation.                                                    13
3. l Physical environment ......................................3..................................... 13
3.2 Social environment                 ................. 14
3.3 i cological environment ........................................................................ 15
4. TJe' cnvironmental impact during constructioni eriod .                   .16
4.1 Identification of environmental impact             .         .16
4.i Impact on physical environment .................... ........................................ 17
1.2.1 Impact on waters .......................................................................... 17
41



4.2.2    Impact on        enviroanmental air ........................................................... 17
4.2.3    Impact on        acoush c environment ...................................................... 17
4.2.4    Impact on        geologic resources .......................................................... 17
4.2.5    Impact on land          function ...........................................................              17
4.3   Ecological environment ...........................................................                                18
4.4   Impact on        social environment ...........................................................                    18
4.5   Impact on        living    quality environment ...................................................... 19
4.5.1    Impact on        cultural resource ...........................................................           19
4.5.2    Impact on        scenic     spots and places of interest .................................. 19
4.5.3    Impact on        scenic     view    in the Line area ........................................... 19
4.5.4    Influx    of labor force ...........................................................                     19
4.5.5    Land     occupation        anid   resettlement &          rehabilitation .......................... 20
5.Potential environmental impatct during                        operation       period ........................... 21
5.1 Identification          of environmental impact .................................................... 21
5.2   Impact on physical environm                   ent ...........................................................     21
5.2.1    Impact on        waters ...........................................................                      21
5.2.2    Impact on environmental air ........................................................... 22
5.2.3    Impact on        acoustic environment ...................................................... 22
5.2.4    Impact on radiation             environment .......................................... 22
5.3   Impact on ecological environment ........................................................... 23
5.3.1 Impact on rare birds ...........................................................                            23
5.3.2    Impact on        ecology ........................................................... 23
5.3.3 Impact on ecological environment incurred by electric field and noise
................................................................................................................ 23
5.3.4    Impact on        ecological environment of wetland ................................. 24
5.4   Impact on        social environment ........................................................                      24
5.4.1 Impact on traffic incurred by transmission line operation ................ 24
5.4.2    Intercrossed        transmission lines' impact ........................................... 24
42



5.4.3 Impact on environmental sensitive             cS ......................................... 25
5.4.4 Impact on cultural resources, scenic . pcs and places of interest ..... 25
5.4.5 Impact on scenic views .................................................. 25
5.4.6 Influx of labor force .................................................. 25
6. Sclhemlle analysis ................................................................ 26
6.1 impact with no newly built substations andJ v( ver transmission lines ...... 26
6.2 Schemes comparison ................                       ........................................ 26
7. Envirlonmental management plan and mitigati n iv, asures ........................ 28
7.1 D)uring construction period ............................................ 28
7.2 During operation period ......................................................................   28
7.3 L and occupation and compensation           ................ ....................................... 28
7.4 Resettlement and rehabilitation ...................... ........................................ 29
7.5 (Cultural resources ........................................................................  29
7.6 Scenic views                    ............................. 29
7.7 P'rotectioni of ecological environment .............................                      30
7.8 1.abor safety and protection ..................................................................... 30
7.9 Nvionitoring management .............................     ........................................ 30
7. 1 ( Training plan .............................        ........................................... 32
8. PuHli2 participation .      ....................             ....................35
8.1 i'tiblic participation investigation ..........................                          35
8.2 1'ublic participation investigation results ................................................ 40
43



