Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24896
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$145 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR
YIXING PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT
February 21, 2003
,Energy and Mining Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y1 = US$0.12
US$1 = Y8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASL          Above sea level                         JPSPC        Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Company
AAA          Analytical and Advisory Activities                   Limited
AAOV         Annual Agricultural Output Value        kW           Kilowatt
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy             kWh          Kilowatt-hour
CETIC        China Electric Power Technology Import and  LOLP     Loss of load probability
Export Corporation                       M           Million
CIF          Cost, insurance, and freight            MMS          Mandated market share
CNAO         China National Audit Office             MOF          Ministry of Finance
CNOOC        China National Offshore Oil Company     MOPI         Ministry of Planning and Industry
CNPC         China National Petroleum Corporation    NCB          National Competitive Bidding
CQ           Consultants' qualifications             PAP          Project-affected person
CRESP        China Renewable Energy Scale-Up Program  PIP         Project Implementation Plan
DC           Direct contracting                      POE          Panel of experts
DO           Developmnent objective                  PSR          Project Status Reports
DSCR         Debt service coverage ratio             QBS          Quality-based selection
E&M          Electrical and mechanical               QCBS         Quality- and cost-based selection
ECIDI        East China Investigation and Design Institute  RAP   Resettlement action plan
EDR          Equalizing discount rate                RLG          Resettlement leading group
EIA          Enviromnental inpact assessment         SBDs         Standard Bidding Documents (World Bank)
EMP          Environnmental management plan          SDB          State Development Bank
ESCO         Energy service company                  SCORES       State Council Office for Restructuring
FIRR         Financial internal rate of return                    Economic System
FM           Financial management                    SDPC         State Development and Planning Commission
FMR          Financial mnanagement report            SEPA         State Environmental Protection Administration
FYP          Five-year plan                          SETC         State Economic and Trade Commission
GESP         An optimization model                   SIDRI        Shanghai Investigation, Design and Research
GHG          Greenhouse gas                                       Institute
GWh          Gigawatt-hour                           SINOPEC      China Oil and Petrochemical Company
ICB          International competitive bidding       SOE          Statement of expenditures
IERR         Internal economic rate of return        SP           State Power Corporation
IPO          Initial public offering                 SPERC        State Power Economic Research Center
IP          Implementation progress                  SS           Single-source selection
IT          Information technology                   TA           Technical assistance
JEPB         Jiangsu Environmental Protection Bureau  YPSP        Yixing Pumped Storage Project
JPEPC        Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company  VAT       Value aded tax
JPPB        Jiangsu Provincial Pricing Bureau
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum



CHINA
YIXING PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    7
3. Benefits and target population                                                   7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                     13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        14
3. Technical                                                                        17
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Environmental                                                                    19
6. Social                                                                          22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   24
2. Critical risks                                                                   24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   26
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          26
2. Other                                                                            26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       39
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                           40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             48
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  59
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        67
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          78
Annex 11: Environmental Summary                                                        80
Annex 12: Financial Assessment Arrangement                                             88
Annex 13: Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                            94
Annex 14: Energy Sector Issues and Bank Strategy                                      102
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 32270



CHINA
Yixing Pumped Storage Project
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASEG
Date: February 21, 2003                           Team Leader: Jianping Zhao
Sector Director: M. Farhandi                      Sector(s): Power (80%), General public admninistration
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang             sector (20%)
Project lID: P068058                              Theme(s): Infrastructure services for private sector
Lending linstrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  development (P), Regulation and competition policy (P)
Project Flannc!tg 2a   ..a
[X] Loan     [] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 145
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:  - Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                         Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                           Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Flnanclng gDn (o$ur: tnuce                                  LocaI      .ForeEg      d     Towt
BORROWER                                                       0.00           0.00          0.00
IBRD                                                           0.00         145.00        145.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                           285.28          29.04        314.32
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                              123.42           0.00         123.42
Total:                                                       408.70          174.04       582.74
Borrower: CHINA
Responsible agency: JIANGSU PUMPED STORAGE POWER COMPANY LIMITED
Address: Yicheng Town, Yixing City, Jiangsu Province, China
Contact Person: Mr. Huang Yuezhao, General Manager
Tel: (86-510) 798-8098 Ext. 5085         Fax: (86-510) 797-0166          Email:
jsyxpspp@pub.wx.jsinfo.net
Other Agency(ies):
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Address: 20 West Beijing Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China
Contact Person: Mr. Xu Songda, Deputy General Manager
Tel: (86-25) 330-0300          Fax: (86-25) 330-7576          Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY     -    . 2003    2004       . 2C05..  2006  -. 2007.      - 2008-.    2009:.
Annual      1.95      6.90       9.85      53.50     57.40      10.90       4.50
Cumulative     1.95       8.85      18.70     72.20     129.60     140.50    145.00
Project implementation period: 2002-2009
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2009



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed project is to increase the overall efficiency of the power sector in Jiangsu
Province in two ways:
(a) Through the design and implementation of a far-reaching restructuring of the sector to further
competition at the generation level and to provide large consumers access to generators (by
promoting the transition from a monopoly-monopsony structure to an unbundled competitive
structure: wholesale market by end 2005 and eventually retail market by 2012).
(b) Through the construction of a pumped storage plant (4 x 250 MW) and associated transmnission
in Yixing to ease acute peaking problems and improve the generation mix that would create the
conditions for more flexible dispatch and improved supply reliability, an essential requirement for
well-functioning competitive markets.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Following are the key performance indicators:
(a) Overall operational indicators: Implementation of the reform program according to the agreed
schedule, wholesale electricity price decreased in real terms, coal consumption decreased, and
reduced loss of load probability (LOLP).
(b) Quality indicators: Customers satisfaction to be surveyed during the early stages of the project
and after implementation of the reform; the quality of power supply to be improved upon completion
of the project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25141     Date of latest CAS discussion: December 19, 2002
The CAS (see Annex 1) presented to the Board on December 19, 2002, emphasizes that the Bank will
assist China in accomplishing its goals as set out in the report, "Two Historical Transitions-from a
Rural Agricultural Society to an Urban, Industrial Society and from a Centrally Planned Economy to a
More Globally Integrated Market-Based Economy-on a Sustainable Basis."
The Bank's energy sector strategy contributes to this objective by focusing on assistance to the energy
sector in making a smooth transition from a fully state-owned monopolistic sector to a diversely owned,
market-oriented sector in which are promoted clean fuels, renewable energy, energy efficiency, and
assistance to poor western areas to develop their energy resources for local growth and export to other
regions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Issues:
Reforms in China's power sector during the 1980s and 1990s incurred a series of incremental changes
that have resulted in a power sector largely unrecognizable from that in the early 1980s. In early 2002,
government functions were largely separated from enterprise management. All energy enterprises were
corporatized and operated as commercial businesses. Budget allocations were phased out and subsidies
eliminated. Investments are now financed through equity and debt from a variety of public and private
sources. Electricity prices were increased to reach, on average, long-term marginal supply costs in most
- 2 -



grids.
In spite of this tremendous progress, the power sector still faces serious problems that are described in
detail in Annex 14. These problems will gradually be addressed if the reforms, adopted by Chinese
authorities at the highest level and issued by the State Council in April 2002, (Document No. 5), are
adequately implemented.
Government Strategy:
From monopolies to competitive markets. The government's strategy seeks to (a) gradually transform
the power sector of provincial and regional systems into a diversely owned, market-based industry
through comprehensive restructuring and (b) create a comprehensive modern regulatory framework for
the sector.
The 2002 State Council Document No. 5 is a major step forward in the gradual process of reformning the
power industry in China. It clearly states that the objectives of reform in China are to continue the
break-up of the monopolistic structure of the industry and gradually expand competition to improve the
allocation and productive efficiency of the sector and ultimately provide customers with the best service
at the lowest possible cost. The following tasks are planned for the 10th Five-Year Plan (FYP)
(2001-05):
(a) The generation assets owned by the State Power Corporation (SP) have been transferred to five
newly created independent generation companies, the capacity share of a generation company in a
power market should not exceed 20 percent. A national grid company and a southern grid company
have been established to be responsible for transnission and distribution businesses.
(b) Competitive and open regional markets will be developed and operated according to market
codes requiring dispatching of generators according to bidding procedures. Market trials will be
initiated to allow generators to supply energy directly to large customers and to begin the phasing
out of the single-buyer market structure.
(c) A new pricing mechanism will be developed, including environmental protection mechanisms
that link the price paid to generators to their entissions to encourage the development of renewable
energy and clean generation sources. The electricity price will be unbundled to generation,
transmission, distribution, and consumer supply prices.
(d) A power regulatory commission has been established under the State Council. The State
Electricity Regulatory Commnission will develop power market rules and monitor market operations,
ensure fair competition, recommend price adjustment to the government, supervise the service
quality of power enterprises, issue and supervise licenses, and resolve market disputes.
Adequate implementation of this far-reaching reform program requires rigorous planning and detailed
analysis to ensure a transition without disruption. Prerequisites for adequate implementation include
mainly the following:
(a) Optimization of the generation mix at the provincial and regional levels: Most of the power
systems in China rely more than necessary on coal-fired 'and-base load power plants. The inadequate
generation mix, especially the lack of peaking capacity, restricts the flexibility of. dispatch, which
results in inefficient use of resources and reduced reliability. Without optimized generation mixes,
competitive markets will not bring about the expected efficiency gains and increased reliability of
supply. Expected efficiency gains from optimized generation mixes and economic dispatch are higher
than those expected from other segments of the industry (generation costs in China account for 60-80
percent in final consumer prices).
-3 -



(b) Development of transmission: Transmission networks are underdeveloped in most regions of
China. Adequate functioning of provincial and regional markets requires adequate transmission
systems to avoid congestion and lead to optimal use of installed capacity.
(c) Transparent transactions and adequate contractual arrangement: Access of eligible
consumers to generators requires open access to the transmission system. Because the latest reforms
did not mandate separation of transmission and distribution in the medium term, clear separation of
these functions is required within the network companies to ensure fairness to other users of the
transmission system and avoid conflict of interest. Accounting of transmission and distribution
functions should be separated and transactions between them based on transparent rules and
procedures.
(d) Alignment of pricing policy with the principles of Document No. 5: The new sector strategy
outlines a pricing approach completely different from the current administered and tightly controlled
approach. Delay in developing new guiding principles adapted to the competitive markets will
jeopardize the development of competitive power markets and undermine achievement of the
objectives sought by the government.
(e) Adequate regulation: Adequate regulation is essential to development of competitive markets. It
came to be considered as an integral part of the reform process even in countries such as China that
did not commit to full privatization of the sector. It is required to provide confidence to investors
(especially in high growth countries like China) and to shield market participants and consumers
from monopoly-monopsony-market power abuses.
Bank Strategy
The Bank strategy has been summarized in the OED country sector evaluation of the Bank's assistance to
China's energy sector as follows:
The Bank's activities have been through four distinct periods. In the Early Years (1983-88), the
Bank's assistance aimed at helping China's integration into the global economy. It focused on
removing bottlenecks to the country's accelerating economic growth and on institutional
development (emphasizing technology transfer and capacity building). In the Years of Transition
(1991-93), which followed a two-year hiatus in Bank lending, the focus was on consolidating earlier
assistance to the power sector, with an added emphasis on addressing the resettlement issues
associated with hydroelectric projects. In the Power Reform Years (1994-97), the Bank's focus
shifted to policy change and broad reform, primarily, although not exclusively, in the electric power
sector. This coincided with economic reforms initiated by China in the early 1990s and the greater
urgency attached to that subsector by the govemment in light of persistent power shortages in
fast-growing Eastern China. In the Years of Diversification (since 1998), Bank assistance continued
and strengthened a move beyond the power sector that had started in 1997. Lending operations were
added in energy conservation, district heating, and renewable energy and AAA activities in the oil
and gas sector were renewed. Only two power loans have been made since 1998, resulting in a
significant decrease in overall energy lending.
The Bank strategy and assistance continued to evolve to meet the changing circumstances and needs of
the power sector. Lending activities and Analytical and Advisory Activities (AAA) initiated during the
last three years aim at bringing the Bank assistance fully in line with the new business strategy
framework with special focus on poverty (Hubei Small Hydropower Development in Poor Areas
Project-FY 02). These activities also aim to bring support to reform and the transition from monopolies
to competitive markets (the proposed project to assist in adequate implementation of the government
-4 -



reform program at the provincial or regional level and FY03 AAA to further reforms, especially pricing,
at the national level and improved access to clean energy in western poor provinces). These activities
also promote protection of the local and global environment (FY03 Technical Assistance (TA) clean
technologies, GEF Energy Efficiency II-FY03, China Renewable Energy Scale-Up Program under
preparation) and promotion of good governance and PSD (FY03 AAA to provide assistance to the newly
created State Electricity Regulatory Commission-FY02/03, PPIAF study on separation of generation).
Bank strategy and activities are described in more detail in Annex 14.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project is in line with the strategy developed in the CAS which stresses that the success requires a
client-driven strategy (provided it is in line with Bank mission and goals) and a program based on a
steady stream of sound investment projects.
The project would create a proper environment for the transition of Jiangsu's power sector to a wholesale
competitive market without disruption through the following activities:
(a) Increasing peak capacity (construction of a pumped storage power plant) to improve the load
following capability of the system and quality of electricity supply. The improved generation mix
would reduce current system inefficiencies at the generation level primarily because of uneconomic
dispatch.
(b) Fully separating generation from transmission and distribution and creating the conditions for
open access to transmission services. This would address issues related to abuses of
monopoly-monopsony power and create the environment for well-functioning competitive markets.
Moreover, the ring fencing of transmission and distribution businesses (separation of organizational
and managerial activities and accounts) would impose more discipline on the distribution segment
and pave the way for much needed distribution restructuring.
(c) Developing new guiding principles for power pricing to comply with the directives of the State
Council Document No. 5. These would provide incentives to generators to produce at minimum cost,
to network service providers to operate efficiently, and to customers to behave rationally. They
would also ensure adequate revenues in each segment of the power supply chain after unbundling.
Gradual implementation of new pricing mechanisms in Jiangsu Province would include, but not be
limited to, (i) an efficient pricing scheme for peaking capacity and ancillary services, (ii) a
transmission tariff, and (iii) final consumer tariffs. This would address issues related to current
imbalances between the revenues of different segments of the industry and the inefficient use of
resources.
(d) Strengthening the institutional capacity of a major utility and preparing it to operate in a
competitive environment through (i) the development and implementation of enterprise resource
planning, (ii) development of risk analysis and management techniques under market environment,
(iii) upgrade of system planning capacity in a competitive environment, and (iv) upgrade of
management and staff skills.
-5-



C. Project Description Sunmemary
A. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
.  , -  ;            .   U~~~~~~ndicbt,v  .     D/kv     .  of.
:  - ., C:run,6oonant  .Cg ¢ost.. % og             financing   Bank-
M(  M$.    ToSlI    '(US$X) S fnancing
1. Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant Component.     479.91      82.4    138.55      95.6
The development consists of (a) a new upper reservoir
impounded by a main dam with a maximum height of 75 m
and a subsidiary dam with a maximum height of 35 m; (b)
expansion of an existing lower reservoir by raising the
height of the existing dam to a maximum of 50 m; (c) a
water conveyance system, including intakes and outlets,
headrace and tailrace tunnels, and surge shafts, with the
total length of about 2,900 m; (d) an underground
powerhouse with an installed capacity of 4 x 250 MW, (e)
implementation of an environment management plan, (f)
implementation of a resettlement action plan (RAP),
including resettlement of 43 project-affected persons
(PAPs); (g) consulting services to assist in engineering,
design, procurement, and construction management; and
(h) a comprehensive training program to develop
management and technical staff capacity for both the
construction and operation phases.
2. Power Sector Restructuring Component. The assistance  6.20     1.1      5.00       3.4
to the reform program includes (a) transfer of knowledge
for the development of (i) a pricing policy adapted to the
competitive industry structure envisaged by the Chinese
government; and (ii) a target pricing system and transition
strategy for Jiangsu Province based on the new pricing
principles soon to be adopted at the national level; (b)
required studies and analyses for access of eligible
customers to generators as a first step toward the
development of a competitive wholesale power market; and
(c) preparation for the changes in the Jiangsu Provincial
Electric Power Company's (JPEPC's) corporate structure
and management procedures and upgrade of its
management skills to operate efficiently in a competitive
environment.
3. Transmission Component. A 6.3 km long double circuit  4.35    0.7       0.00       0.0
500 kV transmission line will be built to connect the
Yixing Pumped Storage Plant to the East China 500 kV
- 6 -



network.                                                 I l       l   _     l
Total Project Costs  490.46   84.2    143.55     99.0
Interest during construction  90.83  15.6      0.00      0.0
Front-end fee   1.45       0.2     1.45       1.0
Total Financing Required  582.74    100.0    145.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms to be sought under the proposed project include the following:
(a) Design and implementation of a wholesale market with multiple buyers to further competition in
the sector.
(b) Development and implementation of an efficient pricing mechanism that provides consumers and
producers incentives to optimal use of resources in the competitive environment sought by the
government.
(c) Restructuring and building capacity of one of the largest provincial power companies in China to
operate in a competitive environment.
(d) Transition to retail competition in the long term through financial separation of distribution from
transmission and distribution from retail business, the identification of service costs, and
establishment of independent accounting for each business activity.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would have a marked impact on the economic development of Jiangsu Province by mitigating
and eliminating institutional and technical constraints that have prevented the power system from
expanding and operating efficiently. The direct benefits attributable to the physical component are as
follows:
(a) Increased peaking capacity to accommodate growing system peak demand and avoided load
shedding that is detrimental to consumers. -
(b) Improved system load following capability and frequency regulation to increase service quality
and supply reliability, thus meeting consumers' expectations in Jiangsu Province.
(c) Increased efficiency of coal use and reduced environmental damage through improved system
capacity factor.
The power market development and power sector restructuring supported by the project are aimed at
increasing sector efficiency and servicing demand at the least cost by initially introducing competition at
the wholesale level and later at the retail level. Given the size and strategic importance of Jiangsu
Province, the dissemination of knowledge, best practice accumulated, and lessons learned through
project-supported studies, analyses, and pilot programs will lead to successful implementation of the
reform program in Jiangsu and contribute to the sound implementation of the new reform policy in China
as a whole.
The reforms will benefit the following:
(a) Utilities and independent producers, including private sector producers who suffered from
monopsony abuses.
(b) Large consumers who will have direct access to suppliers and who will be able to negotiate
supply prices.
-7 -



(c) All electricity consumers who will have a more reliable supply at economically justified prices.
(d) The JPEPC, which will develop the management and operation skills to operate in a competitive
environment.
Implementation of the investment components of the project will also directly benefit the people in the
project areas by providing (a) employment opportunities both at the construction and the operation stage,
(b) economic development opportunities because of a need for local services and materials, and (c)
increased tax revenues that will benefit the whole community.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Eight (8) years, from 2002 to 2009.
Executing Agency: The JPEPC will be the executing agency of the reform component. The JPEPC was
responsible for the preparation of the investment component in the early stage until the creation of the
Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Company Limited (JPSPC; see next paragraph). The JPEPC gained
strong experience during the implementation of three Bank-financed projects: Xuzhou-Shanghai
Transmission Line Project (completed and rated satisfactory), Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, and
East China (Jiangsu) Transmission Project (ongoing and rated satisfactory). The JPEPC is entrusted with
the implementation of the investment component in the latter project. The JPEPC has qualified personnel
to assist the JPSPC in undertaking preparation, implementation, and operation of the proposed project.
The execution of the power market and sector restructuring component would be carried out by the
JPEPC in close coordination with the State Power East China Company under the oversight from the SP,
the provincial government, the State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC) and other central
government agencies. The JPEPC has established a "core team" fully dedicated to the preparation and
implementation of the reform component with adequate resources. The core team has been trained during
project preparation on concepts of power sector reform, development of a competitive power market, and
development of pricing mechanisms adapted to a restructured and competitive environment.
The JPSPC has been created as a legally independent entity to prepare the proposed pumped storage
project and to manage its construction and operation. The JPSPC's organization charts and staff plan for
the construction and operation phases have been developed. It currently has 7 departments with 46
full-time staff. Many of the key personnel were taken from the JPEPC and other power entities, including
Bank-financed pumped storage projects. They are very experienced in project management, hydropower
engineering, financial management, procurement and contracting, environmental issues, and resettlement.
During project preparation and implementation, technical assistance will be provided as part of the
project to upgrade the management skills or technical capabilities of the professional staff, or both.
The Shanghai Electric Power Design Institute is the designer of the project during the feasibility stage. In
the detailed engineering design stage, it is primarily responsible for designing the civil works. The East
China Investigation and Design Institute (ECIDI) is responsible for designing the electric and mechanical
works, and it bears the main responsibility for preparation of the bidding documents. A panel of experts
(POE) has been formed to provide periodic, independent reviews of the project during final design and
construction. An experienced international consulting firm was hired to review the design of the upper
reservoir dam and underground facilities. Another well-known international firm has been employed to
assist in reviewing the final phases of the design and in preparing the bidding documents and bid
evaluation. Three supervising engineers (one for design and two for construction) have been contracted
to provide quality assurance for design and construction. Firms will be employed to carry out an
independent evaluation of resettlement throughout the resettlement period and monitor the
implementation of the environmental management plan during the entire project implementation period.
The JPSPC will buy power from and sell power and ancillary services to the grid owned and operated by
-8 -



the provincial or regional power company. The power tariff and service charge will be initially approved
by the Jiangsu Provincial Pricing Bureau in accordance with principles established by the SDPC.
However, over time it is expected that such pricing arrangements will evolve toward more
market-oriented arrangements.
Financial management and funds flow: The finance department of the JPSPC, with assistance and
guidance from the finance division of the JPEPC, will be directly responsible for financing arrangements
and financial management. It will also be responsible for maintaining, monitoring, and reconciling
special accounts to be established for the project, and preparing and verifying withdrawal applications
before submitting them to the Bank for disbursement processing. The JPEPC's knowledge of and
experience in the Bank's disbursement procedures will prove valuable when the JPSPC is ready to
withdraw Bank funds.
Loan funds will flow from the Bank to the special account to be set up for the project and/or for the
contractors or suppliers. A Loan Agreement will be signed between the Bank and China, and an
onlending agreement for the Bank loan will be signed between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the
JPSPC. The JPSPC will make funds available from the loan to the JPEPC on a grant basis for the reform
component. Counterpart funds include equity contributions and domestic bank loans. Equity in the
JPSPC is provided by the following shareholders: the SP (10 percent), JPEPC (65 percent), Jiangsu
International Trust and Investment Company (20 percent) and Yixing Assets Operation Company (5
percent). Contributions will be made by shareholders directly to the JPSPC. Commitment to lending by
one of the major domestic commercial banks has also been obtained.
Project Coordination: The JPEPC would be responsible for overall coordination of the project. The
power sector restructuring and power market development component will be closely coordinated with
the policy development and regulatory reform at the central level and the sector reform in the East China
region.
Project Oversight and Policy Guidance: The power sector restructuring component of the proposed
project will be supervised by the provincial government and the SP, under the overall policy guidance of
the State Council. The SP and the provincial government would be responsible for coordinating with
central government agencies on major reform issues. The MOF, the SDPC, and the State Economic and
Trade Commission (SETC) will supervise project financing and advise the JPEPC on all financing
matters. The concerned provincial government agencies will oversee the planning and implementation of
resettlement. The State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA) and the local environmental
agencies will supervise and monitor the implementation of the environmental management plan.
D. Project Rationale
1. 'Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Jiangsu power grid faced major problems to meet peak demand during the summer of 2002, and
electricity shortages are expected next summer. The peak demand is expected to grow at a higher level
than electricity consumption because of the very high growth of commercial and household demand.
Yixing was chosen as the next pumped storage project after the central government arranged an
independent comparison of competing candidates in East China. In the least-cost study, a computer
optimization and simulation program generated all feasible alternatives and considered all possible
expansion candidates (combined gas cycles, gas turbines, coal-fired thermal units, and nuclear units) to
meet the demand. These alternatives were evaluated, and the program selected the one that minimized
discounted costs and met environmental standards. The rejected alternatives were not feasible (because
of constraints such as gas availability), and they were costlier or environmentally more damaging.
- 9-



Other technical assistance activities were considered, such as preparation of a grid code and procurement
of information technology (IT) equipment and software. They were not included in the project because
China (and specially utilities in the East China grid) has gained good experience in these fields through
the successful implementation of the Tongbai Pumped Storage Project in Zhejiang (including market
design, development of a grid code, development of contract for differences, and development of an IT
system) and the East China (Jiangsu) Transmission Project (including development of a grid code and
establishment of a broker). The evaluation conducted by international consultants of the power market in
Zhejiang concluded that these aspects of the reform were well mastered by Chinese counterparts in the
case of markets characterized by competition in generation and a single buyer. The project therefore
focuses on the novel aspects of the reform program, especially pricing and the access of large consumers
to generators.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Weak transmission system,        East China (Jiangsu) Power      S            S
'provincialism," inefficient use of  Transmission Project
resources
Non-optimal generation mix,      Tianhuangping Hydroelectric    HS            S
inadequate pricing               Project
Weak corporate govemance,        Zhejiang Power Development     HS            S
inadequate contractual arrangements  Project
Heavy reliance on coal, inadequate  Shuikou Hydroelectric Project I  HS      HS
pricing                          & II
Congestion and weak transmission  Sichuan Power Transmission     S            S
systems, weak corporate govemance
Inadequate financing of the      Ertan Hydroelectric            HS            S
development of hydropower, weak  Project-I&II
corporate govemance
High pollution, monopoly abuses, and Hunan Power Development     S            S
weak transmission systems
Non-optimal generation mix, bias  Tongbai Pumped Storage         S            S
toward base load units, limited  Project
competition
High reliance on coal, inadequate  Renewable Energy              S            S
policy for sustainable development of Development Project
- 10 -



renewable energy
High reliance on coal, inadequate  Renewable Energy Scale-up
policy for sustainable development of  Program - under preparation
renewable energy
Pollution and high reliance on coal,  Energy Conservation         S             S
inefficient use of resources
Power strategy, weak corporate    Yangzhou Thermal Power          S             S
governance, inadequate pricing    Project
Pollution and monopoly abuses     Waigaoqiao Thermal Power        S             S
Project
Other development agencies
Non-optimal generation mix       Guangzhou Pumped Storage
Stage II Project (ADB)
Weak transmission systems and    North East China Transmission
inadequate pricing               Project (ADB)
Peak power development           Zhanghewan Pumped Storage
Project (ADB)
Non-optimal generation mix       Taian Pumped Storage Project
:     (JBIC)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several lessons drawn from the previous two Bank-financed projects in the province and completed and
ongoing power projects in other parts of China and the world have been incorporated in the project
design and in the preparation phases to date:
(a) Coordination of Bank-supported project activities at a decentralized level with policy dialogue on
sector reform through economic and sector work at the national level. Preparation for the power
sector restructuring and development of a competitive power market in Jiangsu have been closely
coordinated with sector work and policy advice at the central level (sector work with the SDPC on
developing a strategy for power sector reform and defining a generation asset divestiture strategy,
technical assistance to the State Council Office for Restructuring Economic System (SCORES) and
the SETC on the development of a modern regulatory framework), the Tongbai Pumped Storage
Project (which includes a component to develop a competitive power market in Zhejiang Province),
the Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project (which has a component to restructure the Shanghai
Municipal Electric Power Corporation), the East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission Project (which
includes a component to develop power trading at the regional level within East China). This
coordinated approach maximizes the likelihood of success at the regional level and consistency in
sector restructuring and power market development and in avoiding the problems that slowed
implementation of power markets large in countries with different administrative levels like China's.
It also ensures replication of successful pilot and novel approaches in other parts of China.
(b) The need to move the power market rapidly beyond the transitional phase. In the Zhejiang pilot
power market, the implementation process became focused on the transitional stage (that is, single
buyer with generator competition) as an end in itself. Administrative measures were and are still used
to "mimic markets" rather than further reforms to create a multiseller-multibuyer market. During the
- 11



design of the reform program under the Yixing Project, the single-buyer phase is only used as a
transition to wholesale competition in order to realize substantial efficiency benefits. Direct
contracting (DC) between the generators and the large consumers will be permitted so as to create a
multibuyer and multiseller market.
(c) The need to increase public disclosure and transparency to foster confidence in the market. In the
Zhejiang pilot market, the investors were not able to assess the risks of participating in the market.
They had virtually no information on the market reform process or daily market operations and
consequently had no confidence in the market. During the design and implementation of the power
market under the proposed project, all the policies, rules, and procedures will be widely advertised
and discussed before being adopted. During market operation, detailed information on the market
reform process and daily market operations will be made available to all existing and potential
market participants through well-defined procedures and channels.
(d) The need to start procurement of major equipment early and to have efficient procurement
management. The implementation of many power projects has been delayed considerably because of
delays in the procurement of major equipment. The procurement process for such sophisticated
equipment as in the case of Yixing is complicated and inherently lengthy. It needs to be started early
in the preparation period so that the bid award will correspond with loan effectiveness in order to
avoid delays. In addition, most procurement delays that have occurred in China during recent years
have been related to the qualification of bidders and offered equipment in an environment where
fully qualified bidders are continually increasing the proportion of manufacture by subsidiaries, joint
venture partners, and subcontractors who are not themselves fully qualified. To a large extent, these
difficulties can be avoided through prequalification or staged bidding processes, and they have been
assumed for the pump-generating unit package for the Yixing plant. Another difficulty that has
resulted in delays in power plant equipment installation in China relates to interfaces between
individual suppliers. Procurement packaging has therefore been designed to reduce the number of
packages to the minimum practical level while encouraging worldwide competition. For civil works
construction, which is planned to be carried out by local contractors, experience has been mixed.
Therefore, the JPSPC will also prequalify local contractors.
(e) Need for early government approval of project. In recent power projects there were delays in
project processing stemming from delayed internal government approvals. These delays arose from
inadequate counterpart funding and delayed approval of feasibility studies. In the current case, there
is no shortage of counterpart funds, and the approval process for the physical components have been
completed, except for the commencement of work. A detailed preparation schedule has been
prepared, and approval of commencement of work is expected to be secured in a timely manner.
(f) Need for early agreement on key principles of service purchase. In China, several pumped
storage projects were not optimally utilized in the early stages of operation. This stemmed from the
unclear definition of commercial arrangements between the power plants and the network operators
and/or inefficient pricing schemes for peaking capacity and ancillary services. In the current case, the
key principles of commercial arrangements have been established and agreed. A clear schedule for
detailed development and implementation of the service purchase agreements will be agreed so as to
ensure that the benefits of the power plants will be fully realized once operational.
(g) Adequate resettlement planning, consultation and monitoring. The numerous lessons learned in
several of the large Chinese reservoir resettlement projects (Shuikou, Ertan, and Daguangba) are
being brought to bear in the limited resettlement associated with Yixing. In particular, the affected
people and local communities have been closely involved in resettlement planning and identifying
opportunities for maximizing development impacts from resettlement. The transmission line
resettlement process will continue based on the highly successful organization and procedures
- 12 -



developed under the East China (Jiangsu) Transmission Project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The physical component of the project (Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant) has been identified by the
JPEPC as a top priority development for providing peaking capability to the East China region and
Jiangsu Province, in particular, to meet the growing demand and to improve the quality of the power
supply. The project proposal and feasibility study have been approved by the State Council. The pumped
storage plant therefore enjoys strong support at all corporate levels of the SP and at county, provincial,
and central government levels.
The government's commitment to power sector reform is clearly demonstrated by the State Council's
Master Power Sector Reform Plan issued in April 2002. The East China region is considered by all
parties to be the region with the best technical conditions and strongest institutional capacity to
implement the first regional competitive power market and to pilot the access of large consumers to
generators. Building on the progress made under the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, the JPEPC is
committed to moving further to a competitive electricity market and to be an industry leader in their
reform endeavors. The JPEPC initiated a training program and a study with the assistance of international
consultants to increase awareness and strengthen the capability of its leading group supervising power
sector reform and to develop a concept paper for market framework. The concept paper was completed in
March 2001. Thereafter, a more detailed implementation plan was developed by the JPEPC with the
assistance of international consultants. Based on the principles outlined in the State Council's Document
No. 5, a revised implementation plan was prepared and discussed during the Bank preappraisal mission
in May 2002 and revised during the appraisal mission in November 2002. The implementation plan has
been discussed with and endorsed by the SP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The OED country sector evaluation of the Bank's assistance to China's energy sector stressed that "the
ambitious power sector reform strategy the Bank has pursued since 1994 was, and continues to be highly
relevant in light of the importance of the sector and the government's stated commitment to reform."
Continued assistance to the government during the transition to wholesale power markets is critical to the
success of the reforms.
World Bank involvement in the project would ensure that the following happens:
(a) Implementation of the government's new power sector reform strategy, which is the main focus
of the proposed project, benefits from international experience in power sector restructuring and the
development of power markets. The Bank is in a unique position to bring global experience to bear in
power market design in such areas as power pricing, market organization and operation, settlement
systems, ancillary services pricing, and transitional arrangements. Particularly since the California
power crisis, many governments around the world are reconsidering their deregulation plan; it has
become critical to ensure sound implementation to avoid the pitfalls experienced in some markets.
(b) The pioneering work related to the commercialization of the transmission and distribution
segment in Jiangsu Province will provide valuable inputs to the central government decisionmaking
process in developing a strategy to separate and commercialize the transmission and distribution
business.
(c) The ongoing policy dialogue to address the institutional aspects of wholesale electricity pricing
and transmission pricing is successfully implemented in major power systems that are likely to serve
as models for other regions and provinces.
- 13



(d) The piloting of consumer direct participation in Jiangsu will provide a key input to the central
government in formulating and disseminating a restructuring strategy to develop wholesale power
markets.
(e) The legal and commercial arrangements defining the relationship between the pumped storage
plant and the power market are appropriate so as to maximize the benefits of the plant to the system.
(f) The technical design, construction practices, and equipment selected for the pumped storage
hydro plant is done in accordance with leading international practice and standards. China has
limited experience in these areas of pumped storage hydro plant development, and this project would
significantly strengthen the capacity building initiated under two previous projects.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$36500 million; ERR = 13.6 % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Cost-effectiveness showing that the project is part of the least-cost investment program
(see NPV above and the equalizing discount rate (EDR) = 16 percent) and complemented
by a cost-benefit analysis to determine the internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the
proposed project (see ERR above)
The cost-effectiveness of the Yixing Pumped Storage Plant has been demonstrated by two least-cost
expansion studies carried out for the Jiangsu Power Grid and the east China Power Grid by the State
Power Economic Research Center (SPERC). The studies did the following:
* Covered a 35-year period (2000-35) with special focus on a 15-year planning period (2000-15).
* Considered base and low load forecasts.
* Considered economic costs for all candidates (including transmission costs in case of electricity
transfers) and a discount rate of 12 percent.
* Incorporated environmental standards imposing desulfurization equipment for coal-fired units
south of the Yangtze River.
In all cases considered, the units of the Yixing Pumped Storage Plant are incorporated in the least-cost
generation expansion plan in the first year they are allowed to compete with other candidates. Sensitivity
and risk analyses confirmed the robustness of the proposed project, which remains cost-effective under a
wide range of assumptions. The EDR of the "with" and "without" cases has been estimated at more than
16 percent, well above the 12 percent discount rate in both studies.
Simulation studies carried out for specific years 2006, 2008, and 2013 indicated that the benefits are from
13 to 20 percent higher than the estimates of the least-cost studies.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 9.76 % (see Annex 4)
Financial Analysis at Project Level
1. Since 2001, the SDPC has required that a new pricing method with the following features be applied
to all new power plants:
- 14-



* The tariff is calculated for the whole operation period (including debt servicing period) of a
specific power plant, rather than setting separate tariffs for debt servicing and the operation period
under the traditional model.
* The tariff set at the time of commissioning will be designed to yield a financial internal rate of
return (FIRR) on equity of no more than 4 percent higher than interest rates for long-term loans and
will reflect additional investments considered reasonable.
* The tariff will be designed based on the average operating costs of plants of similar type and size in
the same grid.
* The tariff, once determined, will remain constant throughout the life of the power plant, unless
significant fluctuations in local pricing level, coal price, or exchange rate call for review and
adjustment by local pricing governing agency.
* Two-part tariffs for peak-load power plants are introduced into China power industry.
2. The Jiangsu Provincial Pricing Bureau (JPPB) considers more detailed factors in setting the tariffs:
* The two-part tariff covers both the "capacity" component (75 percent of fixed cost of a power
plant) and the "energy" component (25 percent of fixed cost plus all variable cost).
* Assumed loan terms are 20 years' maturity with current long-term interest rate for local loans and
actual interest rate for foreign loans.
3. In principle, this procedure represents a cost-plus approach with a reasonable return on equity
considering the pass-through of variations in major cost elements. However, the mismatch between
assumed and actual loan terms and operating costs requires an assessment of financial viability of the
Yixing project.
4. At the same time, China is undergoing reform in the power industry, which is mainly focusing on the
introduction of competitive power markets. It is likely that the first step of the reformn of the separation of
power plants from grids will be finished at the end of this year with further reform to take place in the
future. If competitive markets are introduced, market competitiveness of this project should also be
examined in the financial analysis.
5. The objectives of the financial analysis at the project level are to (a) project the tariff that would
apply to the Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant under the existing pricing arrangements and the
likelihood that this would be approved, (b) evaluate the financial viability of the Yixing project, (c)
evaluate the sensitivity of different factors affecting the Yixing project, and (d) verify that the projected
average tariffs would be competitive in a market environment.
6. The two-part tariff calculated in line with the above principle is Y 469.8/kW/year for "capacity"
tariff and 38.7 fen/kWh for "energy" tariff (at the price level of 2008, excluding VAT), which equals to
61.1 fen/kWh for single tariff (at the price level of 2002). In 2002, JPPB approved a two-part tariff for
Shahe Pumped Storage Power Plant, with Y 574/kW/year for "capacity" tariff and 38.5 fen/kWh for
"energy" tariff (at the price level of 2002, excluding VAT). In addition, the single tariff paid to existing
small, oil-fired power plants serving as peak-load generation units, is 90 fen/kWh (at price level of 2002,
including VAT, or 76.9 fen/kWh excluding VAT). It is therefore very likely that the projected two-part
tariff for the Yixing project will be approved.
7. In light of actual maturity of foreign loans, operating costs and operating life of the pumped storage
power plant are usually different from those assumed in the calculation of the two-part tariff. The FIRR
on equity of the Yixing project increases from the 9 percent used in tariff calculation to 9.76 percent,
with a minimum debt-to-service coverage ratio of 1.2 times (average of 1.7 times), and minimum
- 15 -



accumulated debt service coverage of 1.5 times.
8. Financial sensitivity analysis in Annex 5 shows that changes in operating hours and fixed operating
costs have less of an impact on the Yixing project, but delays in commercial operation and changes in
capital investment and pumping cost register the greatest impacts, as evidenced in the lower FIRR or
debt-to-service coverage ratio. This is mainly because of the two-part pricing mechanism used by JPPB
has absorbed most of the impact of variation of operating hours and fixed operating costs, and therefore
rendered financial indicators insensitive to the changes in annual generation and fixed operating costs.
Furthermore, with current tariff-setting and adjustment process stipulated by the SDPC, in which the
major cost elements (including investment costs) are passed through by way of a two-part tariff, adverse
impacts as a result of changes in capital investment and pumping cost can also be mitigated. However,
the negative financial impact arising from delay in commercial operation can only be minimized through
detailed planning, coordination, and execution.
9. For the cases of reduced power sales or increased fixed operating cost, the FIRR is in the range of
9.18-9.29 percent, with a minimum debt-to-service coverage ratio of 1.2 times or an average of 1.6 times.
For the cases of delay in commercial operation, increased investment cost or pumping cost, the FIRR is
in the range of 7.6-8.64 percent, with a minimum debt-to-service coverage ratio of 1.1 times or an
average of 1.5 times.
10. As power reform further unfolds in China, it is more than likely for the Jiangsu grid to introduce a
competitive power generation market by the time the JPSPC is ready for operation in 2008. The analysis
of market competitiveness shows that the Yixing project will provide healthy returns to investors with the
existing two-part tariff awarded to the Shahe Pumped-Storage Power Plant reflecting the
willingness-to-pay of final consumers. The FIRR on equity is about 18 percent, and the average
debt-to-service coverage ratio is 2.3 times. In addition, the average break-even tariffs of the Yixing
project of 53.2 fen/kWh at the price level of 2002 is below the price level JPPB is currently granting to
peak-loading generation units. Given that Yixing will be able to enjoy comparable tariff level currently
awarded by JPPB to Shahe, together with the features of the two-part tariff pricing mechanism, it is
reasonable to conclude that Yixing will be able to compete in a market-oriented environment.
Financial Analysis of the Main Shareholder of Yixing-the JPEPC
11. The JPEPC is investing in the Yixing project as the main investor of 65 percent of equity interest,
and provides a counter-guarantee to parts of the domestic loans made to Yixing. The analysis of the
JPEPC is to verify its capability in investing in this project and in providing guarantee to loan repayment.
12. The audited financial statements for the years 1999-2001 indicated that the JPEPC operated and
invested in power plants, as well as transmission and distribution businesses. The financial statements
further showed that the JPEPC was highly capitalized with debt accounting for less than 42 percent of
total capitalization, and entertained comfortable liquidity. Its net profit after income taxes provided a
modest return on equity of 2.1 percent, with an average annual increase of electricity sales of 15.4
percent. The JPEPC also had a strong capability to repay loans with a debt-to-service coverage ratio of
2.0 times.
13. The pro forma accounts of the JPEPC for year 2002-11, including only transmission and distribution
assets with long-term investment in two peak-load power generation plants, indicate that the JPEPC is
expected to maintain a prudent and strong financial position throughout the forecast period. The
debt-to-equity ratios are projected to stay below 50 percent and the debt service-to-coverage ratio will
reach 1.3 times in 2005 and exceed 1.5 times from 2007 onward. The average self-financing ratio is
forecast to be about 50 percent.
14. Based on the above analysis, the JPEPC is projected to come out with even stronger and better
- 16 -



financial standing after divesting power generation plants and noncore businesses. It is therefore
reasonable to conclude that the JPEPC will be able to meet its investment contribution requirements, as
well as guarantee obligations.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is not expected to affect Jiangsu's budgets or capital investment programs during its
implementation years. The counterpart fund issue has been discussed fully with the project and governing
authorities, and sources of counterpart funding have been secured, without posing a threat to funding for
regular or routine maintenance or capital construction.
Tariff determination by local pricing authorities for the proposed project will be closely monitored.
However, for the purposes of evaluation and sensitivity analysis, assumptions made were rather
conservative and reasonable, and resulting conclusions were acceptable and competitive. Refer to Annex
5 for detailed information.
3. Technical:
The project has been designed and will be implemented according to internationally accepted technical
criteria and standards. The technologies are proven and, as demonstrated by other completed and ongoing
pumped storage projects (including the Bank-financed 1800 MW  Tianhuangping Pumped Storage
Project), have been successfully used in China. The project designers, the ECIDI, and the Shanghai
Investigation, Design and Research Institute (SIDRI) are both very experienced. The ECIDI is the top
design institute in China. It is also the designer of the Tianhuangping and Tongbai project. Well-known
international consultants have been employed to review designs, prepare technical specifications for
international bidding, and assist in preparation for construction.
The Bank raised several design issues during project identification, particularly expressing concerns
about the design of the upper reservoir dam and complicated underground geological conditions. A
seven-member (three international and four domestic members) POE was formed to carry out
independent technical review throughout the preparation and implementation phases (also satisfying the
requirements of OP 4.37). The first POE meeting was held in May 2001. Following the suggestions of
the first POE meeting, more site investigations, studies, and analyses were carried out for final design.
The design of the upper dam was then modified and a top international firm was employed to review the
design. Both the French firm and the second POE meeting confirmed that the modified design adequately
addresses the concerns made by various reviewers.
Prequalification is being undertaken of contractors for the civil works package and for powerhouse
generating equipment. With regard to the latter, five international consortia made up of the most
experienced manufacturers submitted prequalification documents.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Primarily responsible agencies for project preparation and implementation are:
JPEPC:       Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
JPSPC:       Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Company
- 17 -



The JPEPC was the lead agency for preparation of the pumped storage power plant component and the
power sector restructuring component until Bank preappraisal in May 2002. In January 2002, a limited
liability project company, the JPSPC, was established as the owner, developer, and operator of the power
plant. The shareholders' agreements were signed, company charters prepared, and business licenses
issued. The JPSPC currently has seven departments and 46 full-time staff, including several senior
managers with pumped storage or hydropower project experience. Its organization structure during both
the construction phase and the operation phase were satisfactory. The JPSPC is fully taking over the role
of preparing the pumped storage plant. The Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) were completed. The design work is nearly complete. The first tranche of registered capital was
injected and arrangements for domestic loans were agreed with Chinese commercial banks. Preparatory
works, including access road construction, water, and power supply, are under way. The procurement of
contractors for primary civil works and generating equipment is in process. The JPEPC will continue to
be responsible for the preparation and implementation of the sector restructuring component. During the
early preparation stage, the JPEPC requested and obtained a PHRD grant to prepare a program to develop
a competitive provincial power market. A concept paper was first prepared to identify the issues and
assess options for developing an electricity market framework. A Reform Implementation Plan building
upon the principles underlying the Concept Paper and meeting the requirements of the new reform policy
was developed at a later stage. The Reform Implementation Plan has been endorsed by all concerned
agencies at the regional and national levels.
4.2 Project management:
As mentioned above, the project company, the JPSPC, will be largely responsible for the implementation
of the physical component, but it will be heavily supported by experienced firms acting as supervision
engineers. International consultants will be employed to assist in construction management, installation,
commissioning, and supervision of the main electrical and mechanical (E&M) equipment manufacturing.
The JPEPC, as major equity holder, will also provide management and technical expertise, as needed.
The JPEPC will be responsible for the implementation of the reform component. It has established a
leading group to provide strategic guidance and various subgroups to develop the implementation details.
The JPEPC will be assisted by international and local consultants in developing the many details. The
JPEPC has also set up a special group to coordinate with the provincial government, the SP, and other
concerned agencies on key policy issues.
Despite the large number of agencies involved in project implementation, the experience of other projects
indicates that the JPEPC could manage the process effectively. So far, the JPEPC and JPSPC have
succeeded in addressing all issues related to project preparation with an open mind and have sought
international advice when required.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment has been carried out by the project team. Based on the overall
findings of the assessment in relation to organizational capacity, the following has been carried out:
(a) An experienced tendering company (China Electric Power Technology Import and Export
Corporation, or CETIC, responsible for procurement activities under almost all Bank-financed power
projects) has been selected through a competitive process as the procurement agent.
(b) An experienced design institute (ECIDI) has been engaged to prepare technical specifications for
the bidding documents.
(c) A well-known international firm has been contracted to assist in bidding document preparation
and bid evaluation,
- 18 -



(d) The JPEPC, responsible for the power sector reform component, has extensive experience with
procurement under Bank-financed projects. The JPSPC, fully responsible for implementation of the
physical component, has set up an adequate organizational structure and has recruited staff with
adequate skills and experience.
The Bank task team includes several staff who are proficient in procurement. Barry Trembath and Yuling
Zhou at headquarters will be responsible for intemational competitive bidding (ICB) procurement and the
employment of consultants, both of which account for more than 95 percent of the procurement activity.
Dawei Yang from the World Bank Office in Beijing (WBOB) is responsible for the procurement capacity
assessment, training of procurement staff in the project company, post review of below-threshold
procurement, and facilitating communication and ad hoc responses to the Beneficiaries' inquiries. In
addition, Bertrand Ah-Sue at WBOB, Noureddine Berrah, and Chander Ohri from Bank headquarters
will act as advisors on specialized topics.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management system
of the Yixing Pumped Storage Project (see Annex 6 (B)). The assessment, based on the guidelines issued
by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets
minimum Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. The beneficiaries
agreed and have the capability to develop and implement an adequate project financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project in the reporting format required by the Bank.
Funding sources for the project include Bank loan, equity contribution, and domestic borrowing. The
Bank loan will be signed between the Bank and the People's Republic of China through its MOF. The
Bank loan will then be onlent from the MOF to the JPSPC, owner of the proposed project, and the JPSPC
will provide funds for the reform component to the JPEPC. The JPSPC will directly manage the project
special account, which will be established at a major commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The Bank
loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to the special account and/or directly to the contractors or
suppliers. The project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be
using financial management report- (FMR-) based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement
between the Bank and the MOF.
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved in the
proposed project. The task team, however, will continue to be attentive to financial management matters
and audit zovenants during project supervision.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their.treatment emerging fromi this analysis.
The pumped storage plant exploits an existing lower reservoir by heightening the dam to 50 m. A new
upper reservoir, together with an underground power house, is to be built. Both reservoirs are small with
surface areas of 41 ha (upper) and 71 ha (lower). The reservoirs are impounded in valleys of dry hilly
areas rather than constructed on a river. The power plant also involves the construction of other
permanent structures and temporary works, occupying another 126 ha. A 6.3 km double circuit 500 kV
transmission line will be constructed for wheeling power in or out to the 500 kV Yili Substation, which
connects to the East China power grid. The transmission line primarily extends through relatively
undeveloped hills. As a result, only about 0.16 ha of tea garden and woodland will be lost. The main
impact areas are lands that will be inundated by each of the two reservoirs and land occupied by the
hydropower stations, access roads, and support facilities.
- 19 -



And environmental impact assessment (EIA) and EMP conforming to OP4.01 have been prepared and are
summarized in Annex 11. A summary EIA was also prepared and circulated to the Board in October
2002. A supplemental EIA and EMP conforming to OP 4.01 were prepared for the 6.3 km 500 kV
transmission line, were submitted to the Bank in November 2002, and raised in February 2003.
The most important impacts are as follows:
*   Removal of vegetation in areas designated for construction zones, roads, and transmission line
rights-of-way;.
*   Exposure of cut-and-fill slopes to the forces of erosion during construction of the hydropower
projects, roads, and resettlement village.
*   Disruption to TV and microwave stations.
*   Short-term impact of large construction work forces moving into the area.
*   Potential for degradation of drinking water wells located downstream of the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Based on the results of the EIA, an EMP has been developed. The EMP identifies the key impacts,
how they will be minimized during construction and operation, the parties responsible for implementing
the mnitigation measures, monitoring activities and responsible monitoring authorities, reporting
requirements, institutional requirements of the environmental program, budget for labor and equipment,
and scheduling. The program of environmental management is adequate, as is the institutional
mechanism for overseeing the environmental protection and monitoring activities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: (November 2001, including
Transmission Line Component and
revised in February 2003)
A draft EIA report was prepared by the ECIDI, as part of the feasibility studies, and submitted to SEPA
through Jiangsu Environmental Protection Bureau (JEPB) for approval in January 2000. SEPA convened
a POE, which met during a two-day period (January 25 and 26, 2000) to review the EIA. Formal approval
of the draft EIA report was provided by SEPA on September 5, 2000. Environmental specialists
representing the Bank subsequently reviewed the November 2000 draft EIA in early December 2000 and
provided detailed review comments. The draft EIA was revised and resubmitted to the Bank as a final
draft in May 2001. Further Bank review of this document produced additional comments, which were
addressed by the ECIDI in the final EIA dated September 2001. The final ELA, together with a summary
report, were submitted to the Bank in November 2001.
The EIA report takes into account the entire spectrum of potential project-related environmental effects
on the biophysical and socioeconomic environments within the project setting. The EIA identifies the
existing environmental and socioeconomic conditions that could be affected adversely or beneficially by
the project, identifies potentially significant impacts, and recommends measures for mitigating the more
serious negative impacts. The EIA also suggests measures for enhancing beneficial impacts, where a
small additional investment would yield environmental returns. Fieldwork has included monitoring of
water quality; vegetation, and fish, as well as wildlife surveys and land assessments. Because the project
involves a resettlement component, a RAP has been prepared. As part of this, a comprehensive survey of
the affected population was also conducted, which yielded data on public health, livelihood, and attitudes
toward the projects.
- 20 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultation with Public
To obtain public opinions on the project and to strengthen environmental consciousness, opinion and
data surveys were carried out for the project during the development of the initial draft EIA, and when
the draft EIA was being revised to bring it into compliance with World Bank EIA standards. The
questionnaires, results, and analyses are fully presented in the EIA.
Meetings were held with the local county peoples' congresses, standing committees and consultative
committees, the media, workers associations, farmers, and local residents. Women and minority ethnic
interests were well represented at the consultation sessions. All organizations within the project-affected
areas indicated strong support for the respective project, primarily because it is believed that the project
will contribute much-needed economic development within the counties, thereby helping to alleviate
poverty.
In -addition to the public consultations, project evaluation and review meetings were also held. These
were attended by design institutes, academics, state and provincial project sponsors, local county
environmental protection bureau staff, and staff from local county resource management agencies. The
groups systematically reviewed the project environmental impacts and proposed mitigation measures.
The projects were subsequently approved by the Jiangsu Province Environmental Protection Bureau and
the SP.
Information on the project has been disclosed to the public via numerous public information events
presented in television and radio broadcasts, and in newspaper articles. In addition to being provided
with information on the project, the public has been given details on how it can provide its comments and
recommendations to the project authorities. An announcement was issued on the front page of the Yixing
Daily Newspaper on March 6, 2001, inviting the public to review the report at the Yixing Environmental
Protection Station offices, and to provide comments and recommendations on the EIA report. During the
period March 20, 2001, to April 4, 2001, a total of 14 members of the public reviewed the report. The
most significant recommendation coming from the public was the need for improved environmental
oversight of the project. In response, the project authority established its Project Environmental
Management Office. An announcement was issued in the Yixing Daily of December 31, 2002, asking the
public to review the supplemental EIA report relating to the 6.3 km 500 kV line.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
An environmental management organization will be established for the project. During the construction
of the project, the environmental management organization will be responsible for the following:
* Regular monitoring of potentially harmful emissions, including effluents and runoff, atmospheric
emissions, and noise.
* Supervision of the safety and health aspects during construction.
* Restoration work, such as decommissioning access roads and quarries, placing soil over
recontoured land, and seeding or planting vegetation.
* Maintenance of environmental data, records, and files, plus preparation for regular status reports.
Subsequent to construction, the project environmental management organization will be retained, but
modified appropriately, to monitor environmental baseline conditions and environmental impacts during
- 21 -



operation. The environmental monitoring activities are summarized in Annex 11. A substantial budget
has been approved for the environmental management and monitoring component of the project.
Furthermore, an independent agency will be employed to monitor and measure the impact of the project
on the environment during the construction and operation phase of the project. Environmental monitoring
reports will be furnished to the Bank during the construction phase and during the first three years of the
operation.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The pumped storage power plant will require acquisition of about 174 ha of land related to the upper and
lower reservoirs, dam site, access road, switchyard, and housing site. They include 1.6 ha of cultivated
land, 6 ha of tea garden, and 166 ha of woodland. In addition, a total of 71 ha, including 1.9 ha of
cultivated land, 5.8 ha of tea garden, and 63 ha of wood land, will be temporarily occupied for
construction facilities, living quarters, and temporary access roads during construction. Based on a
census survey, a total of 509 persons will be affected by the project, of which 43 persons (19 households)
will be physically relocated, whereas the remaining 466 persons will only lose land. A 6.3 km long 500
kV transmission line will be constructed separately to connect the power plant to the main grid. This line
will require 0.16 ha of land with no demolition, of which 0.04 ha is tea garden and 0.12 ha woodland.
All people living in these communities are Han people, and no ethnic minority groups are present in the
project areas. The project is located in and will occupy 238 ha, including 142 ha for permanent structures
and 96 ha for temporary works. The areas do not have any cultural properties (survey carried out by the
Jiangsu Central Property Bureau and letter of confirmation received by the Bank during appraisal).
A comprehensive RAP, conforming to OD 4.30 has been developed, which includes a detailed social and
economic survey of the affected people. A summary of the RAP is provided in Annex 11. The
resettlement strategy is to provide land-based economic rehabilitation for those who need economic
rehabilitation. Based on the impact, the affected people could be divided into three groups. The first
group involves three village groups that will lose more than 10 percent of their land. These village groups
will be provided with replacement farmland, tea garden from village reserve land, and with land
compensation and resettlement subsidy. The second group involves two state branch farms that will lose
economic trees. A new nursery of 317 mu will be developed to provide economic rehabilitation for those
affected individuals. The third group involves 43 individuals from 19 households who will be relocated.
These households will be provided with replacement value, free new housing plots, and moving
assistance. Affected people are being fully consulted in identifying new housing sites and developing
detailed site plans and housing schemes.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The preparation of the project has involved and will continue to involve all major stakeholders in project
design and implementation. The major stakeholders are as follows:
* The JPEPC and JPSPC are the beneficiaries of the project. They are fully responsible for the
preparation and implementation of the project.
* The SP and the SDPC have been involved in project design, financing, and approval. The SEPA
has approved the EIA report. The SDPC, SP, and SETC, which have responsibility for power
sector regulation and market reform, are being consulted on sector policy and reform issues.
* The Jiangsu provincial government is fully involved in project approval, the ongoing power sector
- 22 -



restructuring, and tariff reform.
* Yixing Municipal Government is one of the sponsors of the power plant and has been heavily
involved in project preparation. The Yixing government will be primarily responsible for
resettlement implementation and environment monitoring. Township and village governments have
been fully involved in resettlement planning and will be heavily involved in resettlement
implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During the course of identifying and preparing the project (the feasibility report, EIA, and RAP),
numerous evaluation and review meetings were attended by research institutes, academics, media, local
community organizations, women's organization, and so forth. In addition, the project has been heavily
advertised in local print and broadcast media and cormments invited and recorded.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The JPSPC and JPEPC will have resettlement specialists assigned to monitor implementation of the
resettlement plans by county and community resettlement offices. Detailed procedures have been put in
place for determining and notifying compensation and resettlement entitlements and expected funds
flows. These will be audited. An independent monitoring agency will also be employed to carry out
external monitoring and evaluation as described in Annex 13.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The independent evaluation of resettlement will utilize several performance indicators, selected on
the basis of experience in other hydroelectric projects in China. Since restoration of income is a primary
objective, considerable emphasis will be given to correctly estimating total household income before and
at various times after moving. However, the evaluation will also include various other quality of life
indicators, such as quality and quantity of housing, and physical infrastructure (including roads, water
supply, and community infrastructure).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pra ect?
'J -                            - .. . ': Policy i_> -, '  . -    Triggered-
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 U) Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 436)                                  CU) Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U) Yes *_ No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes (9 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            * Yes (9 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      C Yes S No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 23 -



For Environment, see Part E, Section 5
For Resettlement, see Part E, Section 6.
For Safety of Dams, see Part C, Section 4 (Panel of Experts).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
No significant environmental impacts exist that could affect sustainability. Social sustainability could be
assured by comprehensive resettlement plans and the highly satisfactory track record of the JPEPC and
the Jiangsu govemment in implementing these plans. Financial sustainability is assured by the
preinvestment agreements and affordability of projected tariffs. The institutional sustainability is assured
by the JPEPC's taking "ownership" of its Power Sector Reform Strategy and Implementation Plan and by
the commitment to and support for reform coming from central and provincial governments.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Power sector reform objectives not        M        The new reform policy issued by the State
achieved because of lack of government             Council in April 2002 clearly outlines the
and JPEPC commitment.                              long-term vision and sets out the major tasks to
be achieved during the 10th FYP. The JPEPC
is committed to reform and intends to be an
industry leader in the reform endeavors.
Other generation and transmission         S        The financial situation of the recently
expansion project not completed on                 established generation companies is healthy but
schedule.                                          procedures for planning and approval of
projects are still not clear. Regulatory
framework is not yet well enough established
to attract private investments.
The objectives of competitive power       H        International firms experienced in power
market not achieved because of market              market design and implementation will be
design flaws.                                      employed to assist in the market design and
preparation of market rules. Lessons from
international experience on market power will
be fully considered during generation
restructuring. A phased gradual reform
approach will be adopted to allow for learning.
Regulatory mechanisms will be developed to
correct design flaws during implementation.
Efficiency objectives not achieved        M        Support to and continued dialogue with the
because of inadequate implementation of            Government on the decommissioning of small
adopted measures.                                  thermal units. Choice of suppliers by customers
and pass through of market prices will
encourage load management. Construction of
the pumped storage plant will reduce partial
-24 -



loading of efficient thermal units.
The pumped storage power plant is not     S         Changes in pricing policy are under
fully utilized because of inadequate               consideration and supported by the project.
pricing of its outputs.                            The policy outlined by the State Council
Document No. 5 is adapted to market and
conducive to efficiency.
From Components to Outputs
Schedule and cost overruns because of     M        Adequate contingency allowances in costing
adverse geological conditions.                      and float in scheduling in potentially critical
areas.
Schedule and cost overruns because of     S         Support provided to JPSPC construction
inadequate project management                       management. Strict pre-qualification criteria
capability, contractor weakness, or                for civil works [National Competitive Bidding
excessive contractual claims                        (NCB) financed by the borrower].
Procurement delays.                       M         Process started early. Pre-qualification for
major E&M supply contracts. Assistance by
international consultants during preparation of
bidding documents and bid evaluation.
Low availability of the power units        S        Strict pre-qualification for E&M suppliers and
because of technical defects of the main            high criteria for key components. Adequate
equipment and lack of technical skills of           training for future plant operators and
the plant operators                                technicians.
Delays in resettlement implementation     M         Plan will be designed. Lessons from successful
because of delays in approving                      resettlement in Jiangsu taken into account.
resettlement budgets, inadequate
planning, failure in implementation, or
erosion of compensation value through
inflation.
The objectives of power sector            M         A comprehensive training program has already
restructuring not achieved because of               been initiated to increase skills and knowledge
lack of understanding of modem power                of all sector stakeholders on fundamentals of
sector restructuring concepts and                   power sector restructuring and regulation, and
inadequate capacity building.                       to impart the concepts of competitive power
market, power market design, and market rules.
The reform will be implemented in stages,
providing adequate time for new management
skill development.
Market implementation is delayed          M         The implementation issues that need to be
because of the lack of implementation               addressed are the focus of the technical
details and relevant rules.                         assistance under the project. The studies will
be carried out and rules developed early in the
-25 -



process.
Market power by market participants        H         Development of mechanisms to encourage DC
leads to increased wholesale prices                  and risk hedging by consumers to reduce
electricity traded in the spot market.
Mechanisms built in to monitor and control
market power.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the government and the JPSPC, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be condition for loan effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Agreements to be reached with the government
Onlend the proceeds of the loan to the JPSPC under a subsidiary agreement on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan, with the JPSPC bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Agreements to be reached with the Beneficiaries
Financial Performance
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
(a) commencing in fiscal year 2009, the JPSPC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
shows that debt-to-service ratio for each year during the term of the debt shall be at least 1.2 times;
(b) commencing in fiscal year 2009, the JPSPC shall take all necessary measures to maintain, for
each of its fiscal years, a debt-to-service ratio of at least 1.2 times;
(c) commencing in fiscal year 2009, the JPSPC shall take all necessary measures to maintain, for
each of its fiscal years, a ratio of cash available to meet its debt service requirements of at least 1.5;
(d) the JPSPC shall not incur any debt, if after incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity
shall be greater than 80 to 20; and
Monitoring Review and Reporting
The JPSPC will provide the Bank with semiannual (prior to each February 15 and August 15) project
implementation reports integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation reports in relation to
respective parts of the project, including project-consolidated financial statements, procurement, and
FMRs.
-26 -



Financial Reporting, Monitoring, and Auditing
(a) By November 30 of each year, the JPSPC shall furnish to the Bank a projected funds flow
statement for the coming year, indicating anticipated expenditures and sources of funding.
(b) By April 30 of each year commencing April 30, 2008, the JPSPC shall furnish to the Bank a
rolling long-term financing plan containing project income statements, fund flow statements, and
balance sheet.
(c) The JPSPC shall furnish to the Bank audited accounts for the project, statement of expenditures
(SOE), and financial statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year and JPEPC project
accounts audited.
Power Sector Reform
The JPEPC will implement the "Power Sector Reform Strategy and Implementation Plan" submitted to
the Bank on November 26, 2002 (in project files). Under this plan, the JPEPC will do the following:
(a) Separate and transfer its generating plants to the newly created generation companies at the
national level (except for units required for provision of ancillary services and critical to the
reliability of the system to be transferred to the regional transmission companies) before September
30, 2003.
(b) Establish or participate in a regional wholesale competitive market characterized primarily by a
spot market and access of large customers to generators through negotiated contracts, including
prices before the end of 2005.
(c) By June 30, 2004, establish separate accounts and financial management of its transmission
business in preparation for a retail market extending the choice of supplier to all consumers by 2012.
(d) Separate and spin off all noncore businesses by December 31, 2008.
Institutional Building
The JPSPC will carry out the management development and training programs as agreed with the Bank.
The JPEPC will carry out the institutional and management development and training programs as agreed
with the Bank.
Environment
The JPSPC and JPEPC will carry out the Environmental Management Program in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
Resettlement
The Jiangsu Government, JPSPC and JPEPC will carry out the resettlement program in accordance with
the agreed RAPs.
Dam Safety
The JPSPC will continue to employ a POE to review design and construction procedures relating to
dams.
The JPSPC will prepare detailed plans for construction supervision and quality assurance, a plan for
'instrumentation, an operation and maintenance plan, and an emergency preparedness plan.
- 27 -



The JPSPC will continue to erploy consultants for construction and quality assurance relating to dams.
The JPSPC will carry out periodic inspections of all dams after their completion.
Funding Arrangement
The JPSPC will make funds available from the Loan for carrying out the reform program.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
JianpingZhao                     M.F                              ukonHuang
Team Leader                      Sector DC0                        ountry Manag#Drector
- 28.



Anneaz 1: Project Design Summary
CHO-A: Yixlng Purmped Stobrage Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ countr reports:   (from Goal to Banks tilsslon)
Transitioning power sector to  -New pricing policies  Government reports on power -Continued govemment
market based system       developed and implemnented  sector                   commitment and
-New regulatory framework                           implementation of overall
established                                          macro-economic reform.
-At least two competitive                            -Commitment to development
power markets developed and                          of poor westem region
well-functioning                                     especially through increased
inter-provincial energy trade
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Overall system efficiency of 1.1 Reduced Wholesale Price  Utility statistics; regulatory  Continued Government
the power sector in Jiangsu  in real terms (Yuan/MWh)  reports, project reports  commitment to power sector
Province improved through    2002  2007   2012                                 reform and development of
designing and implementing a                                                   competitive markets
far reaching restructuring of  360  343    340
the sector and furthering of                                                   Power markets are well
competition and the                                                            designed and implemented at
construction of a pumped   1.2 Overall Operational                             the regional - provincial
storage power station to  Indicators                                           levels, especially in Jiangsu
improve load following    Reduced coal  .stion in                              and East China
capability and quality of  Jiangsu (g/kWh)
electricity supply.          2002   2007   2012                                Measures for increased fuel
374    360    356                                 efficiency in addition to
reducing partial loading
Reduced probability in LOL                           continue to be implemented.
2         2      2                                   Correct economic pricing of
.202    00.9   20.6                               output from Yixing Pumped
8.22   0.99   0.36                                Storage Power Plant leading to
1.3 Quality Indicators                               expected commercial
utilization of project
Improved System Frequency
Control (50 + 0.1 Hz, %)
2002 2007 2012
99.928 99.945 99.950
Improved System Voltage
(220 kV) Control (%)
2002 2007 2012
99.51  99.60  99.63
-29 -



---  .;.  -    1    r@-?      riitX       l¢lEiFsD!t6ig 
Mlerar<:y of Objectlves     '      nPdIderm   3                                   CaIf ;;  soE ACsaurt  S.ronz
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. The pumped storage power 1.1 Key Milestone Indicators  Utility statistics, regulatory  There are no major unexpected
plant of 1000MW in                .         .         reports, survey and project  adverse geological conditions
commercial~            Generation or pumping      reot
commercial and satisfactory  capacity added (MW)      reports
operation                                                                        Procurement is well planned
2008   2009                                       and starts early in the process
500    500                                       There is adequate project
Complete resettlement work:                           management capability
12/2003
Resettlement work is well
1.2 Key Quality Indicators              ~~planned and adequately
1.2 Key Oualitv Indicators              .             budgeted
Round trip efficiency>75%
Per capita pumping or                                 First-class equipment is
generating electricity>35                             selected and plant operators
GWh                                                   are adequately trained
Successful generator starting                         Other generation and
ratio>92%                                             transmission expansion
Successful pump starting ratio                        projects completed on
>84%                                                  schedule
2.1 Development and         2.1 Key Milestone Indicators
Implementation of the power  Separate generation assets:                         Implementation details are
sector restructuring program  09t2003                                            developed and issues are
addressed timely
Permit direct participation of
large customers: 12/2005                              Stakeholders at all levels
Spin off non-core business:                         understands and are able to
12/2008                                               function well in the new sector
environment
2.2 Key Quality Indicators                            The market is well designed,
govemed and regulated to
Improved customer                                     avoid market power
satisfaction
Increased electricity sales per
employee by the JPEPC
(MWh)
2002    2007    2012
1300   3080     3470
3. The 6.3 km 500 kV       3.1 Key Milestone Indicators
transmission line.
In service: 06/2007
- 30 -



Key Performnanc|       DBat Collection Strategy A
lliercrchy of'Objectives         oinidcatore       .,            .___.               ________________
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Yixing pumped storage   US$479.91 nillion         Project reports            No major unexpected adverse
power plant                                                                     geological conditions to cause
schedule and cost overrun
No excessive contract claims
Adequate contingencies build
into cost estimation
2. Power sector restructuring  US$6.20 mnillion
3. The 500 kV transmission  US$ 4.35 million
line
- 31-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$479.91 million
Background
1. The Jiangsu power grid serves one of the most populated (75 million people) and fastest growing
(GDP growth averaged 20% during the last 10 years) provinces in China. In 2001, the supply (92.3 TWh)
was mainly provided by 22, 300 MW of coal-fired units installed in the province supplemented by
marginal imports from hydropower and pumped storage units in other provinces. With increasing
household and commercial demand, the system experienced severe constraints in meeting peak demand
(especially during last summer) despite extensive load management and energy efficiency measures.
Even if demand is expected to grow at a slower pace during the next decade (slightly more than 5 percent
against 9 percent on average during the last 15 years), more installed capacity, especially in peaking
units, is needed to avoid power shortages that could not only negatively impact the province's economic
growth but also lead to extreme price spikes in the competitive market to be developed under the
proposed project. Such price spikes could hamper the functioning of the competitive market and derail
the reform process.
2. The project consists of three components:
(a) a power sector reform and corporate restructuring component to support the JPEPC's transition
from a vertically integrated utility operating in a monopolistic environment to a grid company
operating in a competitive environment;
(b) the construction of a pumped storage power plant in Yixing with an installed capacity of 1000
MW (4x250 MW units); and
(c) a 6.3 km long double circuit 500 kV transmission line will be built to connect the Yixing Pumped
Storage Plant to the East China 500 kV network.
A. The Power Sector Reform Program
3. The Reform Implementation Plan of the proposed Yixing Pumped Storage Project meets the
requirements of the Chinese Government's power sector reform program (Document No. 5) and reform
principles agreed during earlier stages of project preparation. Under the restructuring plan, the JPEPC
will (a) separate and transfer its generating plants to the newly created national generation companies
(except for units required for provision of ancillary services and critical to the reliability of the system to
be transferred to the regional transmission companies) before September 30, 2003; (b) establish a (or
participate in a regional) wholesale competitive market mainly characterized by a spot market and access
of large customers to generators through negotiated contracts, including prices before end of 2005; (c)
By June 30, 2004, separate accounts and financial management of its transmission for a retail market
extending choice of supplier to all consumers; and (d) separate and spin off all non core businesses by
2008. Figures A2-1 through A2-4 depicting the evolution of Jiangsu's power sector are attached to this
annex.
4. Technical assistance financed under the project focuses on implementation issues that need to be
-32 -



addressed at the national and provincial-regional levels, mainly (a) pricing: development of a pricing
system for the Jiangsu power system to comply with the new pricing principles expected to be issued
soon; (b) access of large consumers to generators: (i) statistical analyses, customer surveys and all
required studies to determine criteria for eligible consumers; (ii) market trading arrangements, including
trading rules and arrangements; financial contract provisions or network rights provision (depending on
mode), adequate market quality metering; and settlement and billing systems; and (iii) program to
increase awareness of large consumers about the benefits and risks of direct access to generators and
develop the skills necessary to participate successfully in a competitive environment; (c) Restructuring of
the JPEPC: spin-off of generation and accounting separation of transmission and distribution businesses
before the end of June 2005 and distribution and retail businesses at a later stage and adaptation of its
corporate structure and management procedures to operate efficiently in a competitive environment.
5. A comprehensive and time bound reform program has been prepared by the JPEPC, discussed and
agreed with the World Bank and approved by concerned state and provincial level authorities. The
reform program is available in the project files.
Project Component 2 - US$6.20 million
B. The Yixing Pumped Storage Plant
Introduction
6. The Yixing pumped storage power station is located in Yixing city, Jiangsu Province. The site is
about 200 km from Shanghai and 160 km from Nanjing by highway. The site is situated at the load
demand center of Jiangsu electric power system and is very suitable for the location of a load following
power station. The power plant will be developed, constructed and operated by the newly created Jiangsu
Pumped Storage Power Company Ltd.
Necessity of the Project
7. The Jiangsu electric power grid covers Jiangsu Province in the rapidly developing coastal area of
Eastern China with an installed capacity of 22300 MW. The generation source is dominated by coal-fired
thermal plants, with no hydropower station. A growing problem is the difficulty in meeting the wide
variation between peak and off-peak demand. Most of the thermal plant is suitable only for operation at
more-or-less constant load. The more flexible and more efficient big units are operated at much lower
efficiency as peaking units to cover load variation. The maximum demand between on and off-peak has
exceeded 6620 MW. During more than 78% of the days in a year, the gap between on and off-peak
demand exceeds 4000 MW. In summary, a substantial amount of additional peak-load type generation
plant is required.
8. The planning and designing of Yixing Pumped Storage Power Station started in 1996. The
prefeasibility study was completed in April 1998. The feasibility study was completed in November
1999. The project proposal was approved by State Council in February 2001. The feasibility and
engineering studies of the project were reviewed and commented on by a POE. The panel concluded that
the;construction should commence as early as possible to partly meet the system's peak demand. The
feasibility study of the project was approved by the State Council in late November 2002.
Site Conditions
9. The project site is located in a joint part of hilly zone and plain zone in Yixing Mt. Tongguan region
of the Taihu basin where there are a lot of rivers and little lakes connecting with Taihu Lake.
10. The elevation of Mt. Tongguan 's main peak is 524m, the upper reservoir of power station is located
- 33 -



at the source of a gully on the northeastern side of Mt. Tongguan's main peak and its catchment area is
only 0.21 km2. The lower reservoir, located at the mountain foot on the northeastern foot of the mountain,
is built by heightening and expanding the existing Huiwu reservoir, its catchlment area is 1.87 m. if the
natural water resource is not enough lower reservoir will be supplemented by pumping from the rivers
nearby.
11. The geological strata in the area of the proposed upper reservoir, water conveyance tunnels,
underground powerhouse and lower reservoir consists primarily of fine-grained sedimentary sandstone,
intercalated with argillaceous fine sandstone or silt-mudstone and granite porphyry dykz of the late
Yanshan Cycle, associated with the Maoshan group of the middle and lower series Devonian system. The
geological deposits in which the upper reservoir, water conveyance tunnels and underground powerhouse
will be constructed are located in mono-inclined structures, whereas the lower reservoir will be located in
a synclinal gully. The project area is covered with a thin deposit of colluvial soil, generally underlain by
broken rock. The rock surrounding the proposed underground project structures is classified principally
as Class IV-EII.
12. The topographic and geologic conditions of the project site are considered satisfactory for
constructing the proposed 1000 MW pumped storage power project. The project site is conveniently
located 1.4 km from State Highway 104, and 500 m from the future Nanjing to Hangzhou Expressway,
which is presently under construction. Regional water borne transportation systems are also available.
13. The proposed power station is located approximately 6.3 km from the 500 kV Yili Substation, to
which a 500 kV transmission line will be constructed to link the project to the East China power grid.
Project facilities
14. The proposed project will be comprised of an upper reservoir, water conveyance tunnels, an
underground power or pump-house, an expanded lower reservoir, 500 kV switchyard, control building
and other supporting structures.
15. Upper reservoir: The upper reservoir will take advantage of a depression on the upper, northern
flank of the main peak of Mt. Tongguan. It will be formed by a main reinforced concrete-faced rock-fill
dam, roller compacted concrete (RCC) gravity saddle dam, and surrounding ridges. The main dam will
have a crest elevation of 474.2 m asl, a crest length of 494.9 m, and a height of 47.2 m above the concrete
base slab. The area behind the main dam will be excavated to create the required maximum storage
capacity of 5.30 million m', and live storage capacity of 4.56 million mi. A reinforced concrete
antiseepage blanket will be laid down to prevent reservoir leakage.
16. Lower reservoir: The lower reservoir will be created by increasing the height of an existing clay
core rockfill dam behind which the Huiwu Irrigation Reservoir is presently contained within a natural
gully depression on the lower northeastern flank of Mr. Tongguan. The lower reservoir dam will have a
crest elevation of 83.4 m, a crest length of 484 m, and a maximum height of 50.4 m. The total storage
area of the lower reservoir, after excavation of overburden and accumulated sediments, will be 5.72
million Inm, and live storage capacity of 5.223 million mi.
17. Water conveyance system: There are 2 conduits in the Water Conveyance System, overall length is
about 3000 m per conduit, and the layout is "one tunnel to two units." The headrace tunnel is full-face
steel lining as the integrity of the rock mass around is relatively poor. The diameter of headrace tunnel is
6 to 4.8 m and tailrace tunnel is 7.2 m respectively.
18. Underground powerhouse: It is laid in the pewter-fuchsia moderately thick debris sandstone
interbedded with argillaceous silt stone. The rock is hard and slightly weathered. The rock thickness
above is 268 to 368m. The main caverns consist of the main and auxiliary powerhouses, the main
- 34 -



transformer chamber, a busbar gallery, a tailrace emergency gate gallery, a cable vertical shaft and adit,
access tunnel, tailrace surge chamber, and so forth. The excavating dimensions of main and auxiliary
caverns is 151.2*22*51.7m (L*W*H), the excavating dimensions of main transformer chamber is
134.6*17.5*19.7 (L*W*H). The anchor bar grounding steel fabric support is adopted except part of
sections. The powerhouse houses 4x250 MW reversible pump or turbine units. The transformers are
located in an adjacent transformer hall.
Operating Considerations
19. The units will operate at a rated head of 353 m. The reservoirs are sized; that is, they have sufficient
storage, to allow operation at full output of four hours a day. The average annual generation is estimated
at 1491 GWh, a plant factor of 17 percent. With an overall efficiency of 76 percent, pumping energy
required is some 1959 GWh. The average runoff from the catchment area average about 0.043 cm/s,
inadequate to cover maximum evaporation and leakage losses. Water from "Three-Jiu" will be pumped
into the lower reservoir for initial impounding and make-up during operation. The two reservoirs feature
a considerable range of draw down (maxima of 36 m and 21 m in the upper and lower reservoirs
respectively) most of which will be used on a daily basis.
Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Station
Main Features
Pure Pumped Storage Power Project
Hydrology: Overall basin 0.21 km2 (Upper Reservoir); 1.87 km (Lower Reservoir)
Natural runoff 0.008m /s (Upper Reservoir),
1. 0.033 m3/s (Lower Reservoir)
Reservoirs level (normal storage water lever) 471.5m (Upper Reservoir),
78.9m (Lower Reservoir)
Operation reservoir storage 4.566 million m'
Rated capacity 4x250MW = 1000 MW
Rated flow (Turbine mode)4x80.78 mis - 323nm /s
Water Conveyance System tunnel for 2 units, 2 stages vertical shaft headrace tunnel with full
steel lining, headrace diameter 6-4.8m, each length 1214m per tunnel. Tailrace tunnel diameter
7.2m with reinforced concrete lining, each length 1782m per tunnel
main and auxiliary Powerhouse, Underground powerhouse
151.2mx22mx5l.7 m (LxWxH)
- 35 -



Main transformer chamber underground
134.6mx17.5mx 19.7 m (LxWxH)
Upper reservoir dam reinforced rockfill composite dam
494.9 mx47 m (Lxmax.h)
Lower reservoir damclay core rockfill dam
483x50.4m (Lxmax.h)
The operation head scope (turbines and pump)(4 units) 410-336n/420-352m
Turbines and pump (4 units)363 m rated head(turbine), 375 rpm, runner diameter 4.56m
Motor and generators (4 units)278MW at 0.9PF and 50Hz (Motor), 278 MVA (generator)
Transformers (4 unit)300 MVA, 3 phases, 500 kV
Working Quantity Excavating: 10.09 million m' (open excavation); 0.98 million' (cavern
excavation). Backfilling: 3.30 million m'
Concrete 0.656 million m'
Steel structure: 17, 000 tons
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.35 million
C. Transniission Line
A 6.3 km long double circuits 500 kV transmission line will be built to connect the Yixing Pumped
Storage Plant to the East China 500 kV network.
- 36 -



Figure A2-1
Evolution of Jiangsu Provincial Electrical Power Company
-------------------- 7-------------------- I....TNnC;
Non-Core
!  |            l     , ~~~~~~~BuXsines
I GemOned by             o JPEPC
Tmms~ ~  ~~f Owe by   TrmOuey         |      il.Constructiom  i
Manuhfctures
3.Coal Supply
i  13 MunicipttlDiscos| j4tEqouipment Supply:
Other Proviotl                                     .Desigalostituened by JPEPC  s5.l)ilgo (no j
Power Company  i  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~*6.Sdboois
i7.Hopitals
|  St County Dixuse  | i 9Rtesearch Instituted
j    | i v/ned yJPEPC    |       O Mothers
I-- -                   ----.I  ..... J, -- - - -- - - -- - -
I          Customersnt 
Structure by the end of 2001
ECPC:Etat Chimn Power Company JPEPCdtangsu Provincial Electrneal Power Company Disco:13istribution Company
I PP. lrndpemdemn Power Producer GEN:Generaton TRANS:Traomission Network CU JCustomer
Figure A2-2
Evolution of Jiangsu Provincial Electrical Power Company
ipps                                            Non-Core
: Tnns Owned by          of JPEPC
TrmOndb                         JPEPC ,.
I.Constructioo
13 Monidpal Discm       23Ripals
Other Provi        Ownedby JPEPC            Mamdiscture
Power Corpny                                       3.Coal Supply
4.EqulpmenttSupply
S.Design Imtitte
64 Couuty Dixm e        6.--
Owned by JPEPC         17.Hospitais,
8.11lotels
9.Research Insmtmi"
l ; ; | IZ~~~~~~~others                  i
Structure by the eod of 2002
ECPC:East Chiun PowerCompany JPEPC-Jiuasu Provincial Electrical PowerCompany Disco:DistributionCompany
IPP Ixodepeodent Power Produer GENco:State Founded Generaion Comnpany TRANS:Trarminnaion Network CU:Cutaomer
- 37 -



Figure A2-3
Evolution of Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
|Gencs |,
Non-Core
Business
ti f JPEPC
_1       .         ~~~~~13 MunIcipal DLsons 
i Oned by JPEPC
I. Training Centers
IResearm Institutes
64 County Disr           .Othe"s penoitted
,Ow,ned by JPEPC
CUs
Expeded Structure by the endt of 2005
ECPC:Ent China Power Company J PEPC:1iungsu Pro-uxud Electncal Power Company DiscoD0stribmi-on Compuny
IPP:tndependent Power Producer GENwo:State Founded Genrai-non Company TRANS:Trotnsrmssit, Network CU Customer
LC:tLarge Customet
Figure A2-4
Evolution of Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
F-------------------------------.-------
IlPPs     I                                          ,
|Gen=r                         .  - 
Disnet O( ned by
unser       :               JPEPC
X~~~~er Retc                              -       Rett
| LCsCU                     CsCs
Stnruture by the end of 2010
ECPC:East China Power Company JPEPC:Jiagsu Prosincat Electrical Power Compamy Disket:Distributin Network
IPP.Indeptndent Power Producer GENco:State Founded Generation Company TRANS:Trnunssion Network
Retco:Retail Company CU:Customer LC:Large Customer
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Local     Foreign    Total     Local  Forelgn   Total
Project Cost by Component          (RMB million)                (US$ million)
Yixing Pumped Storage      2,403.39  1,028.92   3,432.31  289.95  124.13   414.08
Power Sector Reform           9.92     41.45      51.36     1.20    5.01     6.20
Transmission Line            36.00       -        36.00     4.35     -       4.35
Total Baseline Cost        2,449.31  1,070.36   3,519.67  295.50  129.14   424.63
Contingencies
Physical Contingency        254.28     52.94     307.22    30.68    6.39    37.06
Price Contingency           161.63     76.83     238.46    19.50    9.27    28.77
Subtotal                    415.91     129.77    545.68    50.18   15.66    65.83
Total Project Cost          2,865.22   1,200.13  4,065.35  345.67   144.79  490.46
Interest During Construction  522.43   230.44    752.86    63.03   27.80    90.83
On IBRD Loan                 -       230.44     230.44     -      27.80   27.80
On Local Bank Loan         522.43       -       522.43   63.03      -     63.03
Front-end Fee                  -        12.00     12.00     -       1.45     1.45
Total Financing Required    3,387.65   1,442.57  4,830.21  408.70   174.04  582.74
Local     Foreign    Total     Local   Foreiqn  Total
Project Cost by Category           (RMB million)                (US$ million)
1. Civil Works              2,115.04       -     2,115.04  255.16     -     255.16
2. Goods                     260.68    1,124.21  1,384.89   31.45   135.63  167.08
3. Services                  289.50      75.92     365.42   34.93     9.16   44.09
4. Miscellaneous             200.00        -       200.00   24.13      -     24.13
Total Project Cost          2,865.22   1,200.13  4,065.35  345.67   144.79   490.46
Interest During Construction  522.43   230.44    752.86    63.03   27.80    90.83
On IBRD Loan                 -       230.44     230.44     -      27.80    27.80
On Local Bank Loan         522.43       -       522.43   63.03      -      63.03
Front-end Fee                  -        12.00     12.00      -      1.45     1.45
Total Financing Required    3,387.65   1,442.57  4,830.21  408.70   174.04   582.74
Note: The Bank loan is supposed to cover the foreign cost plus the front-end fee, amounting to
about $146.24 million. However, the borrower has chosen to round this amount to $145 million.
The resulted gap ($1.24 million), together with the IDC on Bank loan ($27.8 million) would be
financed by loans from local bank as indicated in the PAD Financing Plan.
- 39 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
A. Methodology
The economic evaluation was based on a Least-Cost Generation Expansion Planning study carried out by
the SPERC. The study was carried out using an optimization model that determines the optimal capacity
and generation mix to meet the demand with the minimum cost (net present value of investment and
operating costs).
The expansion study was carried out without constraints for the Jiangsu provincial power system and the
East China regional system from 2002 to 2035 (study period) with special focus on 2002-15 (planning
period). The Jiangsu power system had a peak demand of 18 GW in 2001 and is the largest system in the
East China Grid (about 48 GW peak demand in 2001). Demand of the provincial system is expected to
reach 24 GW by 2005-an annual growth rate of 7.5 percent-and 38 GW by 2015-an annual growth
rate of 5.5 percent. Forecast demand of the regional system is expected to reach 63 GW by 2005-an
annual growth rate of 7.0 percent-and 118 GW by 2015-an annual growth rate of 6.6 percent.
All possible generation candidates were considered including (a) 300 and 600 MW coal-fired units; (b)
hydropower stations; (c) nuclear power stations; (d) pumped storage plants; and (e) 300 MW combined
cycle and 100 MW gas turbines fueled by distillate or natural gas. A 12 percent social discount rate was
adopted in line with current policy on investments in the power sector. All input costs were expressed as
shadow or border prices. (Many economists think that the assumed discount rate is too high and hampers
development of capital intensive technologies such as hydropower and renewable energy. A lower
discount rate would make Yixing more economically attractive.)
The analyses were carried out in both cases for a low demand forecast: an annual growth rate of 4.5
percent (instead of 5.5 percent in the base case) at the provincial level during 2001-15 and an annual
growth of 5.6 percent (instead of 6.6 percent in the base case) at the regional level during the same
period. Sensitivity and risk analyses were also performed to test the robustness of the solution in case of
changes in the assumptions considered in the base case.
B. Basic Results
Analyses showed that (a) Yixing is part of the optimal generation mix at the provincial and regional
levels in both high and low demand growth and (b) the units of the Yixing pumped storage power station
are incorporated in the systems the first year they are allowed to compete at the provincial and regional
level (the first and second units in 2008 and the third and fourth unit in 2009). Only the results of the
study at the provincial level are detailed in this annex. Results of the detailed analyses at the regional
level are presented in SPERC's report prepared for the JPEPC during project preparation and available
for consultation in the projectfiles.
At the provincial level, the expansion plan WITH Yixing has, after retirement of 1494 MW, some 24
GW of added generation during 2002-15: (a) 13,571 MW coal-fired units (2x350 MW, 17x600MW,
6x300MW and 871 MW of units with capacity of 200MW and less); (b) 2250 MW of nuclear power; (c)
1200 MW of combines cycle units (4x300 MW), (d) 4700MW of gas turbines (47x100MW); and (e)
1100 MW of pumped storage (Yixing 4x250 MW and Shahe lxl00MW). The total discounted cost (to
2002) of the system expansion is US$36.475 billion (Y 302.750 billion). The comparative WITHOUT
Yixing has the same total generation capacity but the 1000 MW from Yixing are replaced by 10 100-MW
gas turbine units; the discounted cost is US$36.575 billion (Y 303.571 billion), which is 2.7 percent or
US$100 million (Y 821 million) more than the WITH Yixing case.
-40 -



The EDR of the WITH and WITHOUT Yixing is, at 16.5 percent, 4.5 percent higher than the discount
rate used in the base case (see table 1).
It must be noted that if constraints on development of gas turbines (availability of gas especially) the
economic and environmental benefits of Yixing are a lot higher (see second bullet of last paragraph and
detailed results in the economic studies available in the project files).
C. Sensitivity and Alternative Analyses
Sensitivity analysis confirmed the robustness of the economic viability of the project, which remains in
the least-cost expansion program under a wide range of assumptions. The main variables analyzed were
as follows:
* Lower load growth, with a 12.5 percent lower peak demand in 2015;
* Lower capital costs for both coal-fired and gas turbine plant;
* Lower oil or gas fuel price;
* Higher capital cost for Yixing.
The most interesting switching values (change required in the base case assumptions so that the least
expansion would not include Yixing) are 30 percent reduction in the capital cost of coal-fired plant; a 52
percent decrease in the investment cost of gas turbines; a 37 percent reduction in gas turbine fuel costs
(perhaps a combination of lower gas prices and improved efficiency); a 26 percent increase in the capital
cost of Yixing.
An analysis (worst case scenario) covering a combination of the low load growth, a 10 percent increase
in coal .price (and hence pumping energy), a 10 percent decrease in oil or gas price and a 10 percent
increase in Yixing capital cost showed that the project remains part of the least-cost expansion program
with the four units commissioned thefirst years they are allowed to compete (in 2007 and 2008).
A risk analysis was also carried out covering a range of possibilities for all key variables considered in
the computation of the EDR. The assumed probability distribution of the selected six variables (including
investment cost of Yixing, foreign exchange, commissioning date, investment of gas turbines, oil or gas
price and efficiency of gas turbines) based on similar completed projects in China and the results based
on 3,000 Monte Carlo simulations are provided in figure 1. This gives a statistical distribution of the
EDR with an expected value of 16.2 percent and a 3 percent probability that the EDR would be less than
12 percent (and a 0 percent probability that the EDR would be lower than 10 percent).
-41 -



Table 1 EDR Calculation on Yixing Project
lInas t one                                                    Alinnotiws Can                                            )llterentee
wn--                    O1M U,f                 r.tul          lnnlorr                   08.M1Co,t             Irwr4           I-,et-,,         O&M Co-          Ireid
Fned         Vaed          On-ff                                  Fxed        V'ied           n-f_                             Fxed     Vand     Chl-of     _
0.                                                               0         0C                                 0.0
4                                                   4             4.                                                 4         0o                                  0.0
77                                                 n7             77                                                77         0C                                  00 
714.                                                714.          714                                                714         0C                                 0.0
1560                                                1560.        s160                                                1560        0 c                                 0.0
5620                                                5620          5620                                               5620         0        0 c       0    0           00 
7550                                                7550.         7550                                              7550          0        0         0    0          0.0
9584         3468         15174        225 2       28452          9188        3468.,       15174.      225          28056      .395        0         0    0       -395 5
12507         36sa          5658        198 c       32363.        12208        3698         15658       t9.          31703      -599        0         0    0       -559.3
14653         3881.        14sa8        164 1       34548         14171        3881.        15848.      164.         34065      -462        0.        0    0       -482 3
12312        4178          17184.       154,7       33829,         1533        4178         17184        154         33050      -778        0.        0    0        -778.5
1D551         4599         17722        130         32504          9586        4599.8        1722       130.         32039.1    -465 C      0         0.   0        -465.0
7621         5028         17731.       223. C      30804          8301        502           17731.     223.         31283.      679        0         0    0 o       679 7
8050         5144         18573         94 5       31863          8759        5204 1        18705      129          32799       708 6     60 1     132    34        936. 0
5116 2       5244         110353.       20         33741.         9116 1      5384          19665.      65.         34212         0c     120       312.   38E       471. 0
9174         5466         20233.         0. E      34875          9174        5586.        20581.       78          35421         0. C   120       348    77        546 0
9246         5705         21085          0         36037          9246        5825.,       21441.       63.         3657          o 0c   120.,     355    63        538 6
7246.        5944.        22146         30.(       35367          7246        6064         22563.       93.         3s966.        0 c     120      416    0Z        599 4
4724.1       6266         227862         0. 1      33T77          4724 1      6386          23168       57          343360        0C      120      381    57        559.1
2589         6564         23583         36. 1      32773.         2589        6684          23989       84.         33348         0 c     120      405    48        574 6
0        6826          24679          0.        3(506.            0        68947.        2 25083. 1  57.         3207.         0 c    120       403    57        580 8
0        6826          24679.7        0         3 506             0        6947. 1       25083 1     57.         32087         0C      120      403    S7        580 8
0        6826.         24679          0         31508.            0        6947.1       25083. 1     57.         32087         0C     120       403.   57        550.8
0        6826          24689          0         31506             0        69471         25083.      57          32087         0 c     120.     403    57        580 8
01 6s26.               24679 7.  2              31506, o          0        6947        1        zo     s 1  57,  320S7. e  o    .      120      403    57        50 a
90743 2      43947        167176.       881        302749.        89323       4443          168s6.      1117.       30,3570 e  -1420 C     4a5.    1519   235        821 0
95245         20          19 _36       _930.       348634         93826.       53450    e      16       1236.      :           -1419 z                    *8        15021
102041        66305        248978       1004 e      41832a                      67153 e      251676 £    1415        420846 t   -1440 e           .f       410       2517 s
16.55
-42 -



Figure 1 Risk Analysis Results on EDR
Risk Variable No. 1
8D%                   Investment of YixGng:
.    ~        ~~~~~~ Pmobabiliy distnbution:
60%'                    I  F%1 MI  1
40% .                  0.95   1| 1.05| 1.1|1 15              Fquwy Obubti...1 EOR
20%.
0%' aOf 4E+-F. _       .                             200%
1&0%
Risk Variable No. 2             180%
Exchange Rate:
50%'                  Probabilaiy dismoiuvon:         1 4.OX..  
40%'     fEf             40%1 40-l11
30%       tIlli                        -f12.0%
20%I     111n
10%1   J[j[     4100
1 1.1 1.21.3                                     8.0%
Risk Variable No. 3
100%11                CommissIon Year                 40%
10(%+                                                 4 0
|        | [ ~~~~itrobabomiy aistnouuon: 
8(%-   1 5%1 BU%l 10%T--S%T-            2~~~~~~~~~.0%
40%"
n,          |                                      9 9 4 9 _ 9 9 4 4 c 9
-1  0  1   2                                  _
Risk Variable No. 4
investment of Gas Turbine:
80%1-~ ~  ~  |   lproDaoijity al1sMFT3-an7- -
60%"      f       ||    5%1                                   CJ 15%1 65%l 5%  Cmult- DlMtR.O of EOR
420%%"              1   0.71 0.81 0.91  11 1.11
20%j"      J     ]                                    1000% T
I  0I                                      1 -800%
Risk Varlable No. 5
60%         JLJ       Distillate or LNG Pdce:
0%    n         IvroslwoDalsyaTn5buTori r1         60|0%
40%t                  I | |  5 Y11 05%1 15%1 10 5%1  |                       |
I 0.81 0.91  11 1111.21 1.31
20%                                                 j
0%,                                                   400%
Risk Variable No. 6              200%
Efficiency of Gas tuIblne I
80%tI
1 60%t l      | | 1 70'Xi 15S61 1t)%1 5%1 
2D|W' 40t         ||      1 .01   .1   .2         1      o00%  40%  80% 120% 180% 200% 240%
20%t R  n        I I                              I
43 -



To complement the least-cost expansion approach, a cost-benefit analysis has been carried out and
yielded an IERR of 13.6 percent, which confirmed the economic viability of the project based on a power
sales price equivalent to the tariff approved by the SDPC for the Shahe pump storage station to be
commissioned in 2002 (Y 574.4/kW/yr and Y 0.38/kWh, excluding VAT to derive a very conservative
proxy of the willingness to pay). Sensitivity analyses were carried out and showed that the IERR would
be equal to the 12 percent discount rate in one of the following occurrences:
. The sales price is reduced by 10 percent;
. Yixing investment cost increases by 16 percent;
A risk analysis has also been carried. The assumed probability distribution of the five selected variables
(investment of Yixing, exchange rate, commissioning year, coal price, and power sales price) and the
results based on 3,000 Monte Carlo simulations are presented in Figure 2. This gives a statistical
distribution of the EIRR with an expected value of 13.4 percent and a 16 percent probability that the
IERR would be less than 12 percent (and a 2 percent probability that the EDR would be lower than 10
percent).
Other analyses were carried out taking into account the environmental externalities and to confirm the
economic benefits of the project using detailed simulation programs:
. If estimated environmental costs and benefits are taken into account in the least-cost studies (with
and without the project in the optimal solution-that is without considering fuel and macro
economic constraints), the EDR would be reduced to about 13 percent but remains higher than the
assumed discount rate (considered to be high given the economic and financial market conditions
in China).
. It must, however, be noted that the current conditions in the province (including fuel supply and
limitation on GT imports) would not allow the installation of the total gas fired capacity of the
optimal solution (the second best solution taking into account gas availability, would allow the
installation of only 1500 MW of gas turbines compared to the 4,700 MW in the optimal solution).
In this case, the EDR is estimated at 37.6 percent and would be reduced to 35.1 percent if the
environmental impacts are taken into account.
* Detailed simulation of the operation of the system was studied for 2007, the year before
commissioning of the Yixing project, 2009, the year following the comrmissioning and 2014, five
years after the commissioning. The calculation was carried out for the 8760 hours using a
chronological production simulation model, called GOPS-II, which takes into account probabilistic
forced outages of generation units and probabilistic distribution of load (more accurate than the
optimization model). The results of 3000 Monte Carlo simulations showed that the benefits of the
proposed project calculated by the simulation model are 1.4 to 5 percent higher than those
estimated by the optimization model.
In total these results indicate a satisfactory level of robustness in the economic viability of the Project.
-44 -



Table 2 EIRR Calculation on Yixing Project
Electricit  Installed                        Cost                      WTP         Net Benefit
v    Capacity   Investment          O&M Cost        Total
Fixed        ariable
GWh         MW          mllion Yuan rullion Yuan million Yuan million Yuan miillion Yuan million Yuan
200t         0.         o0.          0.          0.         0.          0.          0.          0.o0
2001         0.         o0.          0.          0.         0.          0           0           0.0
00.         0. a      35. 0s         .         0.        395.          0.       -395. 5
200;         0.          0.        599.          0.         0.        599.          0.       -599. 3
200          0.          0. a      482.          0.         0.        482           0. a     -482. 3
20C0         0.          0. a      778.          0.         0.        778.           . 0     - 778. 5
200(         0.          0. a      990.          0.         0.        990.          0.       -990. 9
200,         o.          0. a      822.          0.         0.        822           0. a     -822. 8
993.        500.a       267.         86.        146.       501         667.,       166. 2
1498.       1000ai                    86.       221.        307.       1147A        839. 9
201       1498.       1000.a                    86.       221.        307.       1147. (      839. 9
2011      1498.       1000a      .              86.       221.        307.       1147.(       839. 9
201       1498.       1000.                     86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
201       1498.       1000.                     86.       221.        307        1147         8399
201       1498.       1000.a                    86.       221.        307.       1147.        839.9
201       1498.       1o0. a                    86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
201       1498.       1000.a                    86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
201       1498.       1000.                     8 6.      221.        307.       1147.        839 9
201       1498.       1000.                     8 6.      221.        307.       1147.        839 9
201       1498.       1000.                     86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
202t      1498.       1000.                     86.       221.        307        1147.        839 9
2021      1498.       1000A                     86.       21.         307.       1147.        839 9
2aZ       1498.       1000.a                    86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
202   1498.  1   a000.                86.       221         307.       1147.        839 9
202       1498.       1000                      86.       21          307.       1147.        839 9
2024      1498.       1000.a                    86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
1498.       1000.a                    86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
202,      1498.       1000.a                    86.       221.        307.       1147.        839 9
1498.       1000.                     86.        221.        307.      1147.        839 9
1498.       1000.(                    86.        221.       307.       1147.        839 9
1498.       1000.(                    86.        221.       307.       1147.        839 9
2031      1498.       1000. a                   86.        221.       307.       1147.        839 9
1498       1000.a                    86.        221.       307.       1147.        839. 9
1498.       1000.a                    86.        221.        307.      1147.        839. 9
1498,       1000.(                    86.        221.        307.      1147.        839. 9
PV2002(12%)         6531. d1                3101         3. 4   83 63.         4458 .      4956. d      497 9
PV2002(10%)         8     71 _ _..  __      3    6 _    ML0    _    1235,,      4999.      6360.        1361. s
Pv2002(ss1) 0948, d                         3438.9       652.4      1615J 0 d I. t         8328E        262.0
EIRR=                Ie 69
Cycle Efficiency of Yixing:                                           76.0%
Incremental Coal Consumption Rate of Thermal Power:                  300. ogce/kWh
Coal Price:                                                          373, 8Yuan/tce
Plant Consumption Rate:                                                0.5%
Levelized Cost:                                                       0. 68Yuan/kWh
WTP of Consumer:
On Capacity:                                         574. 36Yuan/kW.yr VAT excluded
On Energy:                                             0. 38Yuan/kWh    VAT excluded
- 45 -



Flgure 2 Risk Analysis Results on EIRR
Risk Variable No. 1
80%'                      Investment of Y,xing:
Probability distribution
60%' .                      5%/  65%1 15%1 10%1 5%
40%.                      10j951   j  1 051  1.11 1.15            FrequeuyyDistributonofEIRR
20%-
Ow - ,11+n                                               25 0%Ij : :
LO            -
200%
Risk Variable No. 2
50%  _                    Exchange Rate:.
40%' .    a               Probability distribution:       150%
20%   i]            ~~~~~~~40%1 40°/; 15%/o  5%h  &t      |i           |      '$ 
3                                           35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13I
10%t +               I                                   100%
_    -   N    CN_,                                                 ,    ] 1
Rlsk Variable No. 3
100%                      Commission Year.,
80%/                     Probability distribution        00% 
6°0%     1             W%         5 80%l 1°%l 5%1  '      f  "  O 5 1 801       '   '°% ..
60%T      II        I 
40%         L
20%
_   O _  N                                              CCurulav. D0Mstibutlon of EIRR
100,0%-.
Risk Variable No. 4
80%1                      Coal Price:
Probability distribution:
60%                                        10%            800% 
40%                 L~~~10i           ii1 0%
4G1/6t                       0.8    0.9  11 f   1.11*r,. 
20%+      nl   11   1                                      60.0/%
20%                                                     k
o%l | | ius 1 ll l n 1 1                  ~~~~~~~~60.0%..            i
0   0)   -   -
40.0%
Risk Variable No. 5
8D%                    1  wTP of Consumer
Probability distribution:       200          
1 60%1 20%1 10%                                           200%
40%t'     i1| 0.91                 1   1.11 1 2i       
2D     HnJ                                                00%                              -
20%t      [   n                                             0.       I     ,     , 
oy E | | . * ffji~               n                             §     00%  40%  a0%  120%  160%  20 0%
0)  _        N|
- 46 -



Summary of benefits and costs:
See above
Main Assumptions:
See above
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
See above
- 47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Objectives of the Analysis
1. The objectives of the financial analysis at project level are to (a) project the tariff that would apply to
the Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant under existing pricing arrangements, and the likelihood that this
would be approved; (b) evaluate the financial viability of the project company; (c) evaluate the sensitivity
of different factors for the Yixing project; and (d) verify that the projected average tariffs would be
competitive in a market environment.
Tariffs Forecasting
2. The Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant is an investment of the Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power
Company (JPSPC), a limited liability company with the following equity holders: the Jiangsu Provincial
Electric Power Company (JPEPC) (65 percent), the State Power Corporation (SP) (10 percent), Jiangsu
International Trust and Investment Company (20 percent), and the Yixing Assets Operation Company (5
percent). The plant is to be built with the aim of providing or supplementing the power adjustment
capability during the peak-loading period in the Jiangsu power grid. JPSPC has been formed to take
charge of construction, operation, and management of the power plant. According to the proposal
submitted by JPEPC to SP, the power to be generated the by JPSPC will be sold to the Jiangsu grid.
3. Since 2001, the State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC) has required that the new
pricing method be applied to all new power plants. The new pricing method represents a departure from
the traditional model whereby the tariff is calculated for the whole operation period (including the debt
servicing period) of a specific power plant, rather than setting separate tariffs for the debt servicing and
operation period under the traditional model. The tariff, once determnined, will remain constant
throughout the life of the power plant, unless significant fluctuations in local pricing level, coal prices, or
exchange rates call for review and adjustment by the local pricing governing agency.
4. Based on the above, the Jiangsu Provincial Pricing Bureau (JPPB) has applied a two-part tariff to the
Shahe Pumped Storage Power Plant and other existing small, oil-fired power plants, which provide or
supplement power adjustment capability during the peak-loading period in the province. The two-part
tariff adopted by JPPB covers both the capacity component (75 percent of fixed cost of a power plant)
and the energy component (25 percent of fixed cost plus all variable cost), and average operating costs
are used in the tariff calculation. JPPB further indicates that the above pricing mechanism will apply to
JPSPC.
Financial Viability
5. The tariff profiles for the JPSPC below were calculated based on the above principles for a constant
tariff for 20 years, which equals the commercial operating life used by JPPB in calculating the tariff of
the Shahe project, with a gradually increasing dividend trend. The objective of the analysis was to verify
that projected tariffs would be competitive with other forms of power generation. The analysis yielded
the following results:
- 48 -



Pumping Cost (in 2008)   Fen/kWh     24.6   24.6   24.6   27.0   27.0   24.6    24.6
Operating Hours            Hours     1,400  1,491  1,600  1,400  1,491  1,491  1,491
Investment Cost           Y looM     46.8   46.8   46.8   46.8   46.8   51.48   46.8
Single Tariffs (in 2008)  Fen/kWh    72.8   70.2   67.3   75.7   73.0   74.1    71.7
Single Tariffs (in 2002)  Fen/kWh    63.4   61.1   58.6   65.9   63.6   64.5    62.4
Two-part Tariffs (in 2Q08)                 _=
Capacity Tariff          Y/kW/yr.    469.8  469.8  469.8  469.8  469.8  513.5  486.6
Energy Electricity Tariff  Fen/kWh   39.3   38.7   38.0   42.2   41.5    39.6   39.1
FIRR on Equity              %          9     9              9      9      9      10
a. Pumping cost is per kWh 21.4 fen at 2002 price levels, including the value added tax
(VAT). This column also represents the base case.
b. Tariffs of Yixing project exclude VAT.
6. Comparing with the average tariff of 90 fen/kWh (including VAT; 76.9fen/kWh excluding VAT)
paid to existing peak-loading generation units in Jiangsu province, average tariff of JPSPC of 65.9
fen/kWh (excluding VAT), which is calculated on the lower operating hours of 1,400 and higher
pumping cost of 27 fen/kWh, is much lower. In addition, under most of the above scenarios, the two-part
tariff of the Yixing project comes out rather competitive as compared to that of the Shahe Pumped
Storage Power Plant (energy tariff of 38.5 fen/kWh and capacity tariff of Y 574/kW/year with operating
hours of 1,400, excluding VAT, at 2002 price levels).
7. As with the Shahe Pumped Storage Power Plant, for purpose of tariff calculation, the Yixing project
is assumed to bear the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) on equity of 9 percent, which is 3.24
percent higher than the interest rate of a long-term domestic loan. In fact, there are power projects
seeking the state's approval, for which the tariff calculation is based on the FIRR on a total investment of
10 percent, or the FIRR on equity of 12 percent, which is much higher than that used in the Yixing
project. As such, the assumptions used and results reached in tariff calculation for the Yixing project are
rather conservative and acceptable.
Financial Sensitivity Analysis
8. In determining the tariff level, JPPB takes into consideration average operating costs, which in most
cases are different from the designed cost in feasibility study stage and actual costs in operation, and
have definite impact on the financial position and operating results of a specific power plant. The
following financial analysis, based on the tariff of the base case, was therefore performed to deterraine
the degree of impact on financial standing because of changes in pumping cost, annual generation,
investment cost, fixed cost, and schedule of commercial operation.
Single Tariffs (in 2008)  fen/kWh  70.2'  70.2  70.2  70.2   70.2  70.2   70.2   70.2   70.2  70.2
Two part Tariffs (in 2008) _
Capacity                YikWIyr   469.8  469.8 469.8  469.8  469.8  469.8  469.8  469.8  469.8  469.
_ _______     _____ _               _-8
Energy Electricity      Fen/kWh    38.7  38.7  38.7   38.7   38.7  38.7   38.7   38.7   38.7  38.7
Pumping Cost            Fen/kWh    24.6  +10%  -10%   24.6   24.6   24.6  24.6   24.6   24.6  24.6
(in 2008)              .                                .               _                 _
Operating Hours          Hours     1,491  1,491 1,491  +10%  -10%  1,491  1,491  1,491  1,491  1,491
Investment Cost         Y lOOM     46.8  46.8  46.8   46.8   46.8  +10%   -10%   46.8   46.8  46.8
-49 -



Fixed Cost              Y/kW      114    114  114   114    114   114    114   +10%   -10%  114
Operational Schedule               NC    NC   NC     NC    NC     NC     NC    NC     NC   Delay
FIRR on Equity                    9.76  8.04  11.36  10.32  9.18  7.60  12.15  9.29  10.21  8.78
DSCRs-original          Average   1.7   1.6   1.8    1.7    1.6   1.5    1.8   1.6    1.7   1.6
_____________________  Minimum  1.2  1.1  1.2  1.2  1.2   1.1    1.3    1.2   1.2   1.1
Minimum     1.5   1.4  1.5    1.5    1.5   1.4    1.5   1.5    1.5  1.2
Note: All tariffs exclude VAT.
a. Base case.
b. NC refers to "no change," and Delay refers to "The commercial operation is delayed by half a year."
9. The FIRR on equity under the base case is higher than that used by JPPB in tariff calculation, which
is attributable to (a) the maturity of a World Bank loan's being 15 years, rather than the 20 years used in
the tariff calculation, which adversely affects the FIRR; (b) the designed operating costs' being higher
than those used in tariff calculation, which also adversely affects the FIRR; and (c) for the purpose of the
financial analysis, the operating life of the Yixing project's being 5 years longer than that used in tariff
calculation in light of the nature of the power plant, which improves the FIRR.
10. Based on the above, the delay in commercial operation by half a year, as well as the changes in
capital investment and pumping costs, have had the greatest impact, as evidenced in the lower FERRs or
debt service coverage ratios (DSCRs). The two-part pricing mechanism has absorbed most of the impact
of variation of operating hours and therefore rendered financial indicators insensitive to the change in
annual generation.
11. Although the average DSCRs are acceptable in base, as well as in adverse cases, the minimum
DSCRs of 1.1 for the three adverse sensitivity cases, that is, investment and pumping cost being
increased by 10 percent and delays in commercial operation of half a year, are less than desired. To
improve, accumulated DSCRs, calculated including applicable cash balance at the end of the previous
year, have been used to reflect the debt repayment capacity of the Yixing project.
12. For the base case, the accumulated DSCR is maintained at 1.5 or higher from the beginning of
commercial operation. In the cases of pumping and investment costs being increased by 10 percent,
accumulated DSCRs reach 1.5 from the second year of commercial operation. For the case where
commercial operation is delayed by half a year, accumulated DSCRs for the first two years range from
1.2 to 1.3, mainly because of limited cash built up at the end of the initial years. However, from 2011
onward, the accumulated DSCR jumps to 1.5, which is considered financially safe and acceptable. The
remaining cases all enjoy accumulated DSCRs of 1.5 right from the beginning of operation.
13. To summarize, with the least DSCR of 1.1 (average DSCR of 1.5) and a FIRR of 7.60 percent, the
JPSPC is projected to be in a rather healthy financial standing with an acceptable risk level (average
borrowing cost is 5.47 percent). Furthermore, upon commercial operation, the determined tariff reflects
additional investments considered reasonable, and the impact on operating results will therefore be
further mitigated.
14. In addition, the operating cost level stipulated in the feasibility study is higher than the level used in
the tariff calculation and therefore has a negative impact on the financial performance. It is expected that
JPSPC will be able to identify measures to bring the cost down to a realistic level and further improve
financial operating results.
Market Competitiveness
15. As power reform (that is, separation of power plants from power grid and competition among power
plants) further unfolds in China, it is more than likely for the Jiangsu grid to introduce a competitive
generation market by the time the JPSPC is ready for operation in 2008. As such, the following analysis
- 50 -



was performed to determine the impact of market price on the financial standing of Yixing and the degree
to which average sale price could be reduced before financial viability of the power plant would be
threatened.
|_________ _  |_ _  Tariff of Shahe  Break-even
Single Tariffs (in 2008)  Fen/kWh    86.7  86.7   61.1    66.1
Single Tariffs (in 2002)  Fen/kWh   75.5   75.5    53.2   57.5b
Two part tariffs (in 2008)  _        = _            =      =
Capacity                 Y/kw/yr    646.8  646.8  368.7   368.7
Energy                   Fen/kWh    43.31  43.31   36.4   39.7
Pumping Cost (in 2008)   Fen/kWh    24.6   27.0    24.6   27.0
Operating Hours          'Hours     1,491  1,400   1,491  1,400
FIRR on Equity              %       17.83  16.82'   0       0
ebt Service Coverage Ratio  Average   2.3    2.2     1.3    1.3
Minimum     1.6     1.5    0.9    0.9
a. Base case, with designed operating cost.
b. Worst case, with the most adverse terns, such as pumping cost being increased by 10 percent and
operating hours being decreased by 10 percent.
16. The two-part tariff for the Shahe Pumped Storage Power Plant (Y 574/kW/year for capacity tariff and
38.5 fen/kWh for the energy tariff at 2002 price levels) can be regarded as the lower bound of
market-based tariff. Under this scenario, power sales will provide healthy returns to investors, with a
FIRR on equity of about 17.83 percent and average DSCR of 2.3 in the base case. The tariff, with adverse
operating hours and pumping cost, still yields a FIRR on equity of 16.82 percent, which is much higher
than the level used by the JPPB in tariff calculation (9 percent).
17. The average break-even tariffs of 53.2 fen/kWh at 2002 price levels under the base case, and 57.5
fen/kWh at 2002 price levels under the worst case are both substantially below the price level the JPPB is
currently granting to peak-loading generation. Given that the Yixing project will be able to enjoy the
comparable tariff level currently awarded by the JPPB to Shahe, along with the features of the two-part
tariff pricing mechanism, it is reasonable to conclude that Yixing will be able to compete in a
market-based environment.
18. In addition, the construction period of 6 years for Yixing poses a great challenge to financial analysis
and planning. The above financial projection and analysis are based on a grace period of 6 years with a
maturity of 20 years, which are in line with current domestic banking practices for power projects. No
Bank funds will be used in the first year of construction.
- 51 -



Financial Sununary for Jiangsu Yixing Pumped Storage Power Station
Year Ending Dece         31: 2    -2033    (in Mil on of Yuan)
Item          2008 12009 12010 2011 2012 1 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027       2028 20291 20301 2031 2032 20331
Imme Statement              I
Energy Sales (IOOGWh)    7.31 14.6  14.6  14.6 14.6 14.6  14.6 14 6  14.6  14 614.6   14.6 14.6 14.6   14.6 14.± 14.6 14.61 14.6  14 6  14.6  14 614.61 14.6  14.6  14.6
Energy Tanff exciuchng  70 2  70.2 70.2 70.2 70.2 70.2    70.2 70.2 70.2 70.2   70.2 70.2 70.2   70.2  70.2 70.2 70.2 70.2 70.2 70.2    70.2  70.2 70.21 70.2 70.2  70.2
VAT (fen/kWh)
Operating Revenue        513 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 1026 IOT6 1026 10261 1026 1026 1026
)perating Expenses      385   775  776, 776, 777    778   778, 779   780  790. 780, 780    781   782. 783   784  785   786  787   789   673. 557   5591 560   562. 563
Of which, Purchased     204  412   4121 412   412   412  412   412  412   412   412  412   412  412   412  412   412  412   412   412  4121 412   412   412  412   412
lower
)perating Incoim        127   250  250   249  248   2481 247   2,47  _246  245  246   245  244   243  242   241  2401 239   238   237   3531 468   467  465   4641 462
4et Income               17    26   32    39   46    53    60   67    75   82    90    98  106   113  121   129  1341 1381 143    147   2301 314   313  312   3111 310
'mal Taxes              105   206  210   213  216   220   223  227   230  234   238   242  246   249  253   257  259   2621 264   266   307  348   348  347   347   346
X which: Inconic Tax      9    1 3   1 6  19    23   26    30   33.   37    40   45    48   52    56    60   64    66   68    70   72   1131 155   154   154. 153   153
Value-added Tax  87   174   174  174. 174   174   174. 174   174   174. 174. 174    174  174   174  174   174  174   174   174  1741 174   174   174   174  174
Sales Tax        10   . 19   19   191   19   19    191   19   19    19   19    19   19    191   19   19    19   19    19   19    19    19   19    19   19    19
Funds Statement                              I                                                       I                                     I                            I
Intemal Source           134  260   267  273   280   287, 294   301  309   316   325  332   340  3481 355    363  368   372  377   381  3471 314    313  312   311  3101
IBRIYs Loans               2    0     0    0     0     0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0    ol    q    o     0.   o     o     o    o     o    o     0     0    0
Loans               182    0     0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0    0     ol   0     0     0    0     0    0     0    0     0     0    ol
Expcnses         102  211   201   190  180   169   157  146   135  123   III   99    87    74   61    48   41    33    25   17     9    0     0,   0     0     0
tnvesunent          34    0     0     0    0     0    0     01    0.   0,    0    0     0     0    0     0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0    0     0     0
Sources             454  471   468   464  460   456  452   448   "31 4391 436     431  426   422  417   412  409   405   402  399   356  314   313   312  311   310
Expenditures      218     0,    0,   0     0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0    0.    0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0
in Working Capital  3    -2    0     0     0,   0,    0    0     0     0    0     0    0     0     0    0.    0    01    0.   0.   28     0    0     0    0     0
nd Distnbudon        0    37    28   33    39   45    51   57    63    70   72    72,  72    72    72   72    72   72    72   721   72    70   70    70.   70   70
Debt Service             102  400   393   385  377   369  361   353  346   338   330  322   314   306  299   181  174   166   158  150   142    0     0    0     0     0
Principle Repaynient       0  189   191   194  197   201  204. 207   211   215   219, 223   228   232  237   133  133   133   133  133   133    0     0    0     ol    0
I'mancial Expenses       102  211   201   190  180   169  157   146   135  123   1111  99    87    74   61    48   41    33   25    17     9    0     0    0     0     0
Cash Changed             126   35    46   44    Ti    39   36    34    31   27    29   32    35    37   40   152   156  160   165  169   103  228   227  226   225   224
Total Application        454, 471   468   464  460   456  452   448  "3    439   436  431   426   422. 417   412  409   405  402   399   356  314   313  312   311   310
Balance Sheet               I
Current Assets           188  273   3191 362   404   443  479   513   543  571   600  632   666   704  744   896 1052 12121 1377 1546. 1648 1876 2103 2329. 2554 2778
Less Current liabdities   54  106   1061 I06   106   106   106  106   106  106   106   106  106   106  106   106   106  106   106  106    78   78    78,   78   78    78,
Net FLxed Assets        4567 4332 4098 3864 3630 3396. 3161. 2927 2693 2459 2225 1991 1756 1522 1288 1054         820   5F5   351  117     0    0     0    0     0     0
lnvesumnt                  0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0    0     0,    0,   0     0     0    0     0    0     0    0     0     0    0     0     0    0     0
Total Assets(minus current 4700 "99 4311 4121 3928 3733 3535 3334 3131 2924 2719 2516 2317 2120 1926 18"         1766 1692 1622 1557 1570 1798 2025 2251 Z476 2700
liabifides)
Long-term Uabilides     3747, 3558 3367 3172, 2975 2775 2571 2363 2152 1937 1718 1495 1268 10351 798         665- 532   399   266  133     0    0     0     0    0     0
Equity                   9531 941   944  948   953   958  964   971. 978   987 1000 1021 1049 1085 1 IL28 1179 1234 1293. 1356 1424. 1570- 1798 2025 2251. 2476 2700
Long-term Liabihdes and  4700 "99 4311 4121 3928 3733 3535 33341 3131 2924 2719 2516 2317 2120 1926 1844 1766 16921 1622 1557 1570 1798 2025 2251 2476 2700
Equity
Fmancial Ratios
Operating Inconx as a% of 24.9  24 4  24.3  24 324.2  24 2  24.1 24.0  24.0  23.9  24.0  23.9  23.8  23.7  23.6  23.5  23.4  23 323.2  23.1 34.4  45.7  45.5  45 445.2  45.1
teventie                                                                                       I
4et lnconie after tELx as a%  3.4  2.6  3.2  3.8  4.5  5.2  5.9  6.6  7.3  8.5   8.8  9.6  10.3  11.1  I 1.8 12.6 13.0  13.5  13.9 14.4  22.4  30.6  30.5  30.4 30.3  30.2
if Reventie
tettirn on Equity (%)    1 81 2.8   3.4  4.1   4.8   5.5  6.2   6.9  7.6   8.3   9.0  9.6  10.1  10.41 10.7  11.0 10.8 10.7 10.5 10.3   14.61 17.41 15.4  13.91 12.6  11.5
leturn on Net Fixed Assets  3.4  5.3  5.5  5.8  6.0  6.3  6.6   7.0  7.4   7.9   8.6  9.3 10.3   11.4  13.0  15.2  18.6  24.4  35.8  70 2408.81 0.0  0.0  0.01 0.0   0 0
%)                         I          I                      I                                                       I    I                                             I
)ebt Service Coverage    2 3  1.2   1.2   1.2  1.2   1.2  1.3   1.   1.31  1.31  1.31  1.3  1.4   1.4  1.4   2.3  2.4   14   2.5   2.7   2.5  0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0
Accuffmlated DSCRs   2.3   1.5  1.5   1.5  1.5   1.5   1.51  1.5  1.51  1 51  1.51  1.5  1.5  1.5   1.5  2.3                   2.7              0.0              0.0
as a% of Total                  78    77  _76    74               611   661  631   19    51   49    41   36                      9               0                0
- 52 -



Main Assumption on Calculation of Two-Part Tariffs
1. The base year for the price is 2001. Annual local and foreign inflation rates of are 2.0 percent for
each year from 2002 to 2008, but inflation will not be taken into account after 2008.
2. The exchange rate is US$1 = Y 8.28.
3. The interest rate of long-term local loans is 5.76 percent per year; the loans would be repaid in 20
years (excluding a 6-year construction period). The World Bank's loan is assumed to bear annual interest
of 4.94 percent, with a 1 percent front-end fee and commitment charges of 0.75 percent per year. World
Bank loans will also be repaid in 20 years (excluding the construction period). Equity investment will be
20 percent of total investment for the project.
4. Energy sales are based on energy generation estimated in the project's feasibility study report, with
generation of 1,491 hours per year. After consideration of total available capacity, load factor, and station
usage, energy sale is estimated to be about 1,461.2 GWh.
5. The operating costs consist of variable cost and fixed costs. The variable cost refers to pumping cost.
The price for power purchases is estimated to be Y 0.214/ kWh (including VAT)-which is the same as
the sales tariff on valley-load for industrial customers in Jiangsu Province-and it will be escalated with
local inflation rate.
The fixed costs include depreciation, maintenance costs, and administration expenses (such as wages,
employee benefits, materials, insurance). The annual depreciation rate is 5 percent, and the maintenance
cost is 1.5 percent of historical fixed assets. Administration expenses are based on the 2001 price level
(which is Y 35/kW installed capacity) and escalated with local inflation rate.
6. Income tax is 33 percent of taxable income. The VAT rate is 17 percent. Urban construction
surcharges and education supplementary surcharges are 7 percent and 4 percent of VAT, respectively.
7. The FIRR on equity is assumed to be 9 percent.
Notes to Financial Analyses of Project
The major assumptions used in financial analyses of the Yixing project are as follows.
General
1. The interest rate of long-term local loans is 5.76 percent per year, with maturity of 20 years
(excluding the construction period). The interest rate of short-term local loans is 5.31 percent per year.
The long-term loans from the World Bank are assumed to bear interest of 4.94 percent per year with a
commitment charge at the rate of 0.75 percent per year on the principal amount of the loan undisbursed
and a front-end fee in an amount equal to 1 percent of the amount of the loan. World Bank loans would
be repaid in 20 years, including a 5-year grace period.
Income Statement
2. An energy sale is based on the energy generation estimated in the feasibility study report. After
considering available capacity, load factor, and station usage, the energy sales are about 1,461.2 GWh
pre year.
3. Average wages are based on the average level in 2001, which is Y 17,000 per person per year, and
are assumed to increase with the local inflation rate. The welfare fund, housing fund, and
government-sponsored social insurance fund are estimated at 14 percent, 12 percent, and 27 percent of
- 53 -



annual wages, respectively. The government-sponsored social insurance funds include 19 percent for
pension, 6 percent for medical, 1.5 percent for unemployment insurance, and 0.5 percent for workers'
insurance. The number of staff for the power plant is expected to be 242 based on the Feasibility Study
Report.
4. Operation and Maintenance Costs and Administration Expenses: Operation and maintenance costs
include materials, water, insurance, and maintenance costs. In financial projections, these costs are based
on the 2001 price level (which is Y 0.001/kWh for water and Y 2.0/kW installed capacity for material).
Material and water costs are escalated with the local inflation rate. Insurance cost is 0.25 percent, and
maintenance cost is assumed to be 1.5 percent of historical fixed assets per year. The administration
expenses are based on the 2001 price level (which is Y 121kW installed capacity) and escalated with the
local inflation rate.
Balance Sheet
5. Inventories are assumed to be 0.25 percent of fixed assets.
6. Accounts receivable are estimated to be 1 month's operating revenue (including VAT).
7. Accounts payable are estimated at 45 days' cash operating expenses.
8. Short-term loans are equivalent to 3 months of current assets, excluding cash.
B. Viability of the Main Shareholder of JPSPC-JPEPC
Objectives of the Analysis
1. The JPEPC is a wholly owned subsidiary of the SP of China. The JPEPC plans to invest in the
Yixing Pumped Storage Power Project as the main shareholder of JPSPC with 65 percent of equity
investment. The analysis of JPEPC is to verify JPEPC's capability in investing in this project and in
providing a guarantee to loan repayment.
2. The audited financial statements up to the year 2001 reflected that JPEPC operated and invested in
power plants, as well as in transmission and distribution businesses. Based on financial statements for the
years 1999-2001, the JPEPC was highly capitalized (debt accounted for less than 42 percent of total
capitalization) and entertained comfortable liquidity (current ratio of 1.6). Its net profit after income
taxes provided a modest return on equity of 2.1 percent, with an average annual increase of electricity
sales of 15.4 percent. The JPEPC also had a strong capability to repay loans (DSCR of 2.0).
3. One of the goals of power industry reform currently under way in China is to separate generation
functions completely from transmission and distribution activities. However, peak-loading power plants
are excluded from the reform scope. As a subsidiary of the SP, the JPEPC is no exception. Consequently,
pro forma accounts of JPEPC for 2002 and onward, including only transmission and distribution assets
with interest in two peak-loading power generation plants as long-term investment, have been prepared
for the purposes of financial analysis and evaluation.
4. Because the SDPC stipulates that the average electricity sales price in eastern China is to remain
constant during the Tenth Five-Year period, the JPEPC, as part of the eastern China power industry, is
not empowered to adjust the average sales price for the years 2002-05. From 2006 on, the average sales
price is assumed to be gradually increased to meet the financial requirements acceptable to the Bank.
Financial projections of the JPEPC for the years 2002-11, reflecting the above assumption and
restrictions and as indicated in the table below, indicate that the JPEPC is expected to maintain a prudent
and strong financial position throughout the forecast period. The debt-to-equity ratios are projected to
- 54 -



stay below 50 percent, and the DSCR will meet 1.3 in 2005 and exceed 1.5 from 2007 onward. The
average self-financing ratio is forecast to be 50 percent, with the lowest level of 28 percent in 2004 and
2005, and will move up to remain at above 40 percent from 2006 onward.
Conclusion
5. Based on the above analysis, the JPEPC is projected to come out with an even stronger and better
financial standing after divesting its power generation plants and noncore businesses. It is therefore
reasonable to conclude that the JPEPC will be able to meet its investment contribution requirements, as
well as guarantee obligations.
- 55 -



Financial Summary for Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
Year Ending December 31: 1999-2011        (in Million of Yuan)
Item            1999    2000     2001     2002    2003     2004     2005     2006     2007    2008     2009     2010     2011
Income Statement
Energy Sales (1OOGWh)        575     756      834      896     962     1034     1110     1163     1218     1276    1336     1400     1452
Energy Tariff excluding    37.93   36.58    37.59    39.56    40.40    41.38   42.42    44.00    45.56    47.00    48.50    50.50   51.64
VAT (fen/kWh)
Operating Revenue          22269   28067    33258    35441   38879    42768    47084    51161    55492   59966    64820    70700    74981
Operating Expenses         21318   26561    31970    33227   36410    39945    44043    47884    51528   55077    59121    63937    67671
Of which, Purchased       13234   17401    21295   26536    29276    32240    35868    39088   42184    45152    48666    52454    55567
Power
Operating Income             950    1504     1288     2214    2469     2823     3041     3277     3963    4889     5699     6763     7310
Net Income                   588     439      576     1052     1182    1334     1436     1563     1989    2508     2960     3669     4029
Incorne Tax                  359     406      316      518     582      657      707      770      980     1242     1471    1820     1997
Value-added Tax             -       -        -        6025    6609     7271     8004     8697     9434    10194   11019    12019    12747
Sales Tax                    113     140      210      175      192     212      233      253      275      297     321      350      371
Funds Statement                                 _             __.
Intemal Source              2105    2370     2907     3130    3511     4036     4495     4937     5689     6541    7471     8668     9382
Other Loans                 6952    5228     2472     4185     5622    5200     5487     4997     4787     4728    4645     4738     4833
Equity Investment           1881    1110      693       38       56      64       78       59       15       13        0       0        0
Total Sources              12093    9864     7227     7353    9188     9300    10061     9993    10490    11282    12116   13406    14215
Capital Expenditures        8067    8078     7671     5283    7068     6558     6738     6261     5946     5904    5807     5923     6041
Inc/dec in Working Capital  1480   -2386    -3305    -1448    -1784    -1291     -945   -1108    -1281     -946     -450     -548     -843
Debt Service                2720     675     1760     2314    2584     3087     3259     3139     3368     3905    4232     4059     4020
Total Sources              12674    7900     5822     6301     8020     8506    9205     8443     8185     9015     9741     9585    9371
Balance Sheet
CurTent Assets             14795   16760    18165    25953    26156   26186    26446    27522    29472    31489    33701    37444   42210
Less Current Liabilities   13118   16384    20381    19193   20012    20540    20888    21523    22448    23144    23431   23902    24665
Net Fixed Assets           27571   33004    36780    36974   41713    45569    49249    52135    54381    56252    57548   58472    59160
Investment                  2585    3965     3509     2663     2663    2663     2663     2663     2663     2663     2663     2663    2663
Total Assets (minus current  14454  16620   16399    46406    50529    53887   57477    60805    64076    67268    70489    74686   79376
liabilities)
Long-term Liabilities      28743   36278    40366    20883    23920   26033    28261    30119    31538    32361    32774    33453   34266
Equity                     24656   26777    28125    25523    26608   27855    29216    30687    32538    34908    37715    41233   45110
Long-term Liabilities and  53398   63055    68491    46406    50529    53887   57477    60805    64076    67268    70489    74686    79376
Eqwty
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a% of    4.3      5.4     3 9      6.2      6.3      6.6      6.5      6.4      7.1      8.2     8.8      9.6      9.7
Revenue                                          I                                                                               I
Net Income after tax as a%   2.6      1.6      1.7     3.0      3.0      3.1      3.0      3.1      3.6     4.2      4.6      5.2      5.4
of Revenue
Retum on Equity (%)          2.5      1.7     2.1      4.1      4.5      4.8      5.0      5.1      6.2      7.3     7.9      9.0      9.0
Retum on Net Fixed Assets    3.1      1.7      1.8     6.0      6.0      6.2      6.2      6.3      7.1      8.0      8.6     9.5     10.1
(%) 
Debt Service Coverage        1.6     2.8      1.5      1.3      1.3      1.2      1.3      1.4      1.5      1.5      1.6     1.8      2.0
Ratio                                   I.       II__I___II_
Debt as a% of Total           39      43       42       45       47       481     49       50       49       48       46       45       43
Capitalization                                                   I_ 
Self-financing Ratio (%)    -                           40       38       281     28       40       52       52       53       75       91
Note: 1999-2001 actual; 2002-2011 pro forma
- 56 -



Notes to Financial Summary of the JPEPC
The major assumptions used in the financial projections of the JPEPC are as follows:
General
1. The base year is 2001, and the price at the 2001 level is considered the constant price.
2. The inflation rate (%)
2002    2003     2004    2005    2006 & thereafter
Foreign       1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6            1.6
Domestic      1.5     2.0     2.0      2.0           2.0
3. The investments for all projects owned by the JPEPC come from self-financing and loans. The
interest rate of domestic loans is 5.76 percent per year, which is the same as the interest rate for
long-term loans from the State Development Bank (SDB), and the loans would be repayable in about 20
years (including the construction period).
Income Statement
4. The energy sales projection is based on the forecast of the JPEPC, of which the percentage of market
share of the JPEPC will increase from 77 percent in 2001 to 80 percent in 2010, with energy sales of 140
billion kWh. The average growth rate of energy sales for the next 10 years will be 5.7 percent; a growth
rate of 7.4 percent is projected for 2002-05, 4.75 percent for 2006-10, and 3.71 for the next five years.
5. The average tariffs for the projection period were gradually increased so that financial results would
be able to meet the financial requirements generally stipulated by the Bank for power projects.
Tariff adjustment prior to 2005 is not possible because the SDPC stipulates that the tariff level in East
China region should remain constant during the Tenth Five-Year period. The fluctuation in the average
tariff during this period is primarily because of (a) the change in the proportion of the wholesale and
retail aspect of the power industry; and (b) the Power Construction Fund of 2 fen/kWh being added to the
average tariff.
6. The operation and maintenance (O&M) cost for transmission and distribution lines is based on those
in 2001 and is assumed to increase with domestic inflation rates. O&M costs for new transmission and
distribution projects are assumed to be 0.5 percent of additions of fixed assets per year.
7. Income tax is 33 percent of taxable income. The VAT rate is 17 percent. Urban construction
surcharges and education supplementary surcharges are 7 percent and 4 percent of VAT, respectively.
Balance Sheet
8. Inventories are estimated at 20 days' fuel cost plus 0.5 percent of gross fixed assets, which are about
the same as the average level of the last three years.
9. Accounts receivable was 12 days' gross sales revenue (excluding VAT) in 2001, decreased from 15
days in 1999, with an average of 13 days for the last three years. It is assumed to be 12 days gross sales
revenue (excluding VAT) in 2002 and thereafter.
- 57 -



10. Accounts payable was 69 days' costs for fuel and power purchases in 2001. It is assumed to be 60
days in 2002 and thereafter.
11. Short-term loans changed sharply for the last three years, with average 31 days of current assets,
excluding cash, in 1999, and 4 days in 2000 and 2001. It is assumed to be equivalent to 5 days' current
assets, excluding cash, from 2002 to 2011.
12. The Power Construction Funds was 2 fen/kWh, which was excluded from the average sales price for
years prior to 2002. The JPEPC was entrusted by the central government to collect and submit the funds
to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). One fen per kWh of Power Construction Funds was then redistributed
to the JPEPC and treated as paid-in capital from the central government.
Funds Flow Statements
13. The capital expenditures are based on the capacity expansion program of the JPEPC.
14. The borrowing schedule has been projected based on capital expenditures and the availability of
internally generated funds for each year. The repayment schedule is based on agreed or envisaged terms
and conditions of various loans from respective sources.
- 58 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Procurement
1. The following parties will be involved in the procurement process with the first two taking the
leading role:
* CETIC's International Tendering Company (CETIC ITC): CETIC ITC was selected as the
procurement agent by the project owner following a domestic competitive process. It will be
responsible for the overall administration of the procurement process, including preparation of
bidding documents (commercial part and integration with the technical part), advertising, handling
the bidding process, organization of bid evaluation and preparation of evaluation report, contract
negotiations and execution.
. JPSPC: The JPSPC is a newly established company that takes overall responsibility to build,
operate and manage the Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant. As the project owner and
implementing agency, it will play a major role in the procurement process especially on technical
matters and decisionmaking.
 Design institutes: Two design institutes-the ECIDI and the SIDRI-are responsible for project
design and preparing the technical part of the bidding documents. They will also involve in bid
evaluations.
. JPEPC: As the majority shareholder (by 65 percent) of the JPSPC, the JPEPC will also participate
in the bid evaluation and decision making process.
Summary of Procurement Capacity Assessment
2. An assessment of project implementation agencies' procurement capacity was carried out during
project preparation; and a brief summary is provided below.
3. The proposed Project is the fifth Bank-financed power project in the Jiangsu Province. The
construction of all the previous projects was successful and the procurement was carried out in a timely
and efficient manner. As a stock shared company of limited liability, the JPSPC has been fully authorized
to implement the project. The JPSPC has set up an adequate organizational structure and has recruited
staff with adequate skills and experiences. In addition, it has hired CETIC ITC as its procurement agent,
which is a major international tendering company in China that has conducted procurement for most of
the power projects financed by the Bank, as well as other international and bilateral financial institutions.
The JPSPC and CETIC fTC should be able to jointly fulfill the procurement functions and administer the
procurement process in line with the Bank guidelines.
4. Nevertheless, in view of the lack of a national procurement law, deviations of internal NCB
procurement procedures and lack of experience of the project owner as a whole (which is a newly
established joint stock company) with Bank-financed procurement, the risks-associated with procurement
process is assessed as average. Accordingly, the following course of actions has been agreed:
- 59 -



Actions                                             Due Date
1.   The procurement manual describing all the procurement  Completed
procedures to be followed in Bank-financed procurement and
responsibility of each organization handling procurement shall
be distributed to all procurement staff for the easy reference.
The procurement manual will be a part of overall quality
control system.
2.   The JPSPC shall organize periodically, or send staff out to  From time to time;
attend, procurement training seminars, study tours and  one procurement
workshops for procurement staff. On-the-job training shall be  workshop conducted
conducted for all staff from time to time to strengthen the  in September 2002.
agency's capacity to implement the procurement for the
project.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3.   Adequate qualified procurement staff at each level should be  completed
on board by appraisal.
Procurement Arrangements
5. General: The Bank loan will be used to finance primary E&M equipment, consultant services,
training and study tours, while domestic resources (equity and local bank borrowings) will be used to
fund all the civil works and the remaining equipment and materials. All goods and consultant services to
be financed under the Bank loan will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
("Guidelines-Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999; and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999, and
May 2002). Project costs by procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A.
6. For procurement of goods through ICB, the Chinese MBD for Procurement of Goods (ICB) (May
1997) (note: during the process of reviewing bidding documents, special attention should be given to
ensure that any significant changes resulting from the revisions to the Bank Guidelines and SBDs are to
be incorporated) and Bank Standard Bid Evaluation Forms for Procurement of Goods and Works (April
1996) will be used. For major E&M equipment (such as turbines and generators), prequalification will be
carried out in line with the Bank Standard Prequalification Document (for Procurement of Works,
September 1999, revised March 2000). The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) for Supply and
Installation of Plant and Equipment (November 1997, revised January 1999 and March 2002) would be
tailored as Supply and Installation Supervision to suit the specific needs. In evaluation of the bids
following ICB procedures, qualified domestic manufacturers of goods would be eligible for a margin of
preference of 15 percent of the cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) price or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower.
7. For employment of consultants, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals dated July 1997 (Revised
April 1998, July 1999, and March 2002) will be used. In evaluation of the proposals following quality-
and cost-based selection (QCBS) and quality-based selection (QBS), the Bank Sample Form of
- 60 -



Evaluation Report for Selection of Consultants (October 1999) will be used.
8. The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more shall be
adyertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Advertisements for all contracts for consulting firms shall be published
in a national newspaper or gazette, and those inviting expressions of interest for consultancy contracts
above US$200,000 shall also be published in Development Business according to the procedures
applicable to large-value contracts under paragraph 2.5 of the Bank's Guidelines for Selection of
Consultants. In addition, the General Procurement Notice (GPN) (that was first published in UNDB in
May 2001 and updated in December 2002) shall be updated on an annual basis.
9. Goods: All goods to be financed by the Bank loan will be procured through ICB procedures, with
two exceptions: (a) one is related to special instruments to be embedded into the civil works structures
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.0
million) may be procured through contracts awarded on the basis of International Shopping (IS)
procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; (b) the other exception would be
related to construction equipment-when there is only one supplier available for a certain type, DC shall
be used. Based on the current estimate, no such type of construction equipment is expected. However,
based on the past experience, certain types of construction equipment that is of proprietary nature may
become necessary with the progress of undergroumd excavation. Thus the inclusion of DC in the
procurement arrangements would provide flexibility during the project implementation. However, the
Bank will pay particular attention to the use of this procurement method and all DC-based procurement
shall be subjected to Bank prior review and no-objection. The aggregate amount for DC-based
procurement should not exceed US$1.0 million equivalent.
10. Works: The preliminary and main civil works, as well as installation works, are within the capacity
of the local contractors. These works will be financed by the JPSPC and procured following local
competitive bidding procedures. Installation of all major equipment will be supervised by the
manufacturers.
11. Procurement packages for civil works and goods with estimated costs and procurement methods are
summarized in Table Al.
12. Services: For the physical component, the Bank loan will be used to finance consultant services
related to quality assurance and dam safety (Special Board of Consultants); bidding, design, supervision
of manufacturing, installation and commissioning of the primary E&M equipment; preparations for
operation, training and study tours, as well as other services to be identified during the course of project
implementation. For the power sector reform component, the Bank loan will be used to finance
consultant services related to comprehensive power pricing; participation of large consumers; separation
of transmission and distribution, capacity building and training, as well as other consultant services to be
identified during the course of project implementation. In addition, the Bank loan will finance direct cost
of training and study tours associated with the borrower's personnel.
13. Selection of consultants under contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 will be carried out
through QCBS or QBS. Other consulting services expected to cost less than US$100,000 per contract
may be procured following procedures for selection based on consultants' qualifications (CQ) up to an
aggregate amount of US$750,000. Furthermore, if situation warranted, single-source selection (SS) (for
consulting services below US$100,000 per contract) and selection of individual consultants (members of
a POE, for example) as defined under the Bank Guidelines shall be adopted. However, the aggregate
amount for individual consultants is not expected to exceed US$1.3 million (of which, US$1.1 million
would be awarded on a competitive basis, whereas the balance of US$0.2 million on a single source
basis). Consultant services and selection methods are summarized in Table A2.
- 61 -



14. Procurement schedules for main equipment contracts are summarized in Table A3.
15. Prior Review Thresholds (Table B). Bank prior review of draft prequalification and bidding
documents, prequalification and bid evaluation reports and contract award recommendations shall be
carried out for all goods (E&M) contracts exceeding US$500,000 per contract under ICB procedures.
Furthermore, all DC contracts, regardless of value, shall be subject to Bank prior review. Such prior
review will cover about 98 percent of all goods contracts (in terms of value). Selective post-review will
apply to other contracts during supervision missions based on a ratio of one out of three contracts. For
consultant services, prior review of the Terms of Reference, cost estimates, selection criteria, consultant
shortlist, request for proposals, evaluation reports and contract award recommendations, as well as
contracts, shall be required for all consultant contracts with an estimated cost exceeding US$350,000 per
contract for firms, and US$50,000 per contract for individuals. Furthermore, all SS, regardless of value,
shall be subject to the Bank prior review.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,'.k.:       -          '   Procurement Method
2, Experadi ur ,Category  .ICB                  NCB          Other       N.B.F.    Total Casm
1. Works                          0.00            0.00         0.00        255.16     255.16
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                          144.05          0.00         0.84        22.19      167.08
(133.25)        (0.00)        (0.80)      (0.00)    (134.05)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00         14.52       29.57      44.09
(0.00)         (0.00)       (9.50)       (0.00)     (9.50)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00           0.00         0.00        24.13       24.13
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Interest during construction    0.00           0.00         0.00        90.83       90.83
(0.00)         (0.0o)        (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00         1.45         0.00       1.45
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.45)      (0.00)     (1.45)
Total                          144.05          0.00         16.81       421.88      582.74
(133.25)        (0.00)       (11.75)      (0.00)     (145.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the armounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. AU costs include contingencies.
vIncluding goods to be procured through shopping procedures and DC, consulting services, and training and study
tours.
- 62 -



Table Al: Procurement Packaging
1. Civil Works
Package                   Des'ciption                Procurement    Reiimark
No.,                                                 Method        .
Preliminary works                             NBF
Cl         Upper dam                                     NBF
C2         Water conveyance system & power house         NBF
C3         Lower dam                                     NBF
C4         Erection of instrumentation for civil works   NBF
EM2        Erection of E&M equipment                     NBF
2. Goods
Package                   Description                Procurement     Remark
No.                                                   Method
EMI      Main E&M equipment (pump/turbine,             ICB           PQ
motor/generator, CSCS) plus auxiliaries
EM3       500kV main transformers                      ICB
EM4       500kV GIS                                    ICB
EM5       500kV cable                                  ICB
Lining steel plate                            ICB
Construction equipment                      ICB or DC      DC as
needed
Special instruments (to be embedded into civil  ICB or IS  IS as
works structures)                                        justified
Metal structures (gates, hoists)              NBF
Other equipment & materials                   NBF
Note: Estimated costs including contingencies.
- 63 -



Table A2: Consultant Services
,No.1         ',,Description ofConsultant ServICCP              SelecItioni  M
Physical Component
1.   Consultant services for main E&M equipment (installation &  QCBS
commissioning stage)
2.    Training management services (3 contracts respectively for  CQ
Asia, North America and Europe regions)
3.    Special Board of Consultants (7 members, already selected  Individual
during project preparation under PHRD funding; multi-year
contracts throughout the implementation period up to 2008)
4.    Other services related to institutional strengthening of JPSPC.  QCBS, QBC, or
CQ
5.    Training & study tours (cost directly associated with       N/A
borrower's personnel)
Subtotal
Power Sector Reforin Component
6.    Comprehensive Pricing Study                              QCBS/QBS
7.    Participation of large consumers in competitive markets  QCBS/QBS
8.    Ring-fencing Study                                       QCBS/QBS
9.    Training & other studies related to JPEPC restructuring and  QCBS, QBS,
institutional building                                   CQ, SS, or
Individual
Subtotal
Total
Note: SS- Single-Source Selection; QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection; QBS - Quality Based Selection;
CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
-64 -



Table A3: Procurement Schedule
General
Key Implementation Steps                   COMPLETION DATE
Publication of GPN in UNDB #559                                  05/31/01
GPN Updated in UNDB #597                                         12/31/02
Selection of consultant for preparation of bidding doc (technical)  completed
Selection of procurement agent (CETIC)                          completed
EM1 Package (main E&M equipment)
Key Implementation Steps                   COMPLETION DATE
Prequalification
Completion of prequalification documents                       12/31/01
WB review and non-objection                                    03/12/02
SPN in UNDB (#575)                                             01/31/02
SPN in China Dafly                                             03/20/02
Issuance of prequalification documents                         03/20/02
Deadline for submission of applications                        05/20/02
Borrower evaluation & clarification                            09/19/02
WB review and non-objection                                    11/25/02
Procurement
Completion of bidding documents                                09/25/02
WB review and non-objection                                     12/10/02
Issuance of bidding documents to prequalified contractors       12/16/02
Bid submission                                                 03/31/03
Bid evaluation (including Government review)                   06/15/03
WB review and non-objection                                    07/15/03
Contract award and signing                                     08/31/02
500kV Equipment - EM3 (Main Transformers); EM4 (GIS); EM5 (Cable)
Key Implementation Steps                   COMPLETION DATE
Completion of bidding documents (including domestic approval)  04/10/04
WB review and non-objection                                    06/30/04
Issuance of bidding documents to prequalified contractors       07/01/04
Bid submission                                                  09/01/04
Bid evaluation (including Government review)                    11/15/04
WB review and non-objection                                     12/30/04
Contract award and signing                                      02/28/05
- 65 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold. ..          Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)           -Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                        NA                      NA                      NA
2. Goods                        >100                    ICB                     >0.5
<100                     Is
NA                      DC                All DC contracts
3. Services                     >100                QCBS or QBS             0.35 for firms,
0.05 for individuals
<100                     CQ
<100                     Ss
NA                   Individuals
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 98%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every six months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurernent Adviser for guidance.
-66 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Ylxing Pumped Storage Project
Financial Manaaement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Conclusion of rmancial management (FM) assessment The task team has conducted an assessment of
the adequacy of the project financial management system of the Yixing Pumped Storage Project (FM
assessment report in available in project file). The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the
Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets minimum
Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the
project will have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format
agreed with the project and as required by the Bank.
Funding sources for the project include Bank loan, equity contribution and domestic borrowing. The
Bank loan will be signed between the Bank and the People's Republic of China through its MOF. The
Bank loan will then be onlent from the MOF to the JPSPC, owner of the proposed project. The JPSPC
will make funds available to the JPEPC for the power sector reform component. The JPSPC will directly
manage the project special account, which will be established at a major commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to the special account and/or directly to the
contractors or suppliers. In terms of disbursement technique, the project will be disbursing based on the
traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using FMR-based disbursements, in accordance with
the agreement between the Bank and the MOF.
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved in the
proposed project. The task team however will continue to be attentive to financial management matters
and audit covenants during project supervisions.
Country Issues. To date, no CFAA has been performed for China, though dialogue with the Government
of China in respect of the CFAA exercise has been initiated and underway. The planned approach to
CFAA is to build on Asian Development Bank's study of Financial Management and Governance Issues
in China in 2000, and analyze areas that have changed rapidly in the past few years or that deserve
further scrutiny and over time cover all major areas usually assessed as part of a full CFAA exercise.
Currently, for reference purpose, the Bank relies on study work conducted by the Asian Development
Bank.
Nevertheless, based on observations of developments in the areas of public expenditures, accounting and
auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we note that substantial
achievement in the aforementioned areas has been made and further improvement is expected in the next
few years. As the economic reform program further unfolds, the Government of China has come to
realize the importance of establishing and maintaining an efficient and effective market mechanism to
ensure transparency and accountability, and minimize potential fraud or corruption.
Because of unique arrangements by the Government of China, funding (in particular, a Bank loan) of
Bank projects is controlled and monitored by the MOF and its extension, that is, finance bureaus at
provincial, municipal-prefectural, and county levels. However, project activities are usually carried out
by implementing agencies of a specific industry or sector, mainly because of technical expertise required
for project implementation. The above arrangement then usually requires frequent and close coordination
work on the project, as multilevel management of finding and implementation mechanism often presents
a great challenge to smooth project implementation.
-67 -



Strengths and Weaknesses. (i) Strength: During project preparation stage, the JPEPC, an entity with
extensive experience with Bank-financed projects, played an extremely important role for major aspects
of the proposed project, including financial management and disbursement. The valuable experience
gained by the JPEPC from prior Bank assisted projects will be passed on to the JPSPC and the project.
The JPEPC will also implement two of the three components of the project. There is a strong sense of
commitment from the proposed project to sound financial management practice and compliance with
Bank's disbursement procedures. (ii) Weakness: Though project staff of the JPSPC identified to assume
financial and accounting work for the project have relevant academic background and work experience,
they nonetheless have less exposure to internationally accepted standard practices and therefore would
require closer monitoring and assistance from the Bank, in particular at the initial implementation stage.
Training in project financial management should be provided by the JPEPC prior to effectiveness, and
Bank will provide assistance as and when needed throughout project implementation.
Implementing Entity. Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Company has been formally established and
registered with governing agency to be directly in charge of all aspects relating to the construction and
the operation of Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant. The JPEPC will be responsible for the construction
of Transmission Line and Power Sector Restructuring component. During the preparation stage, the
JPEPC, a very experienced borrower with Bank projects, assisted the JPSPC with various aspects of the
proposed project, including financial management and disbursement procedures.
The finance department of the JPSPC, with assistance and guidance from the finance division of the
JPEPC, will be directly responsible for monitoring, financing arrangements, financial management, and
so forth. It will also be responsible for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling special account to be
established for the project, and preparing and verifying withdrawal applications before submitting to the
Bank for disbursement processing. The JPEPC's knowledge of and experience in Bank's disbursement
procedures will prove valuable when the JPSPC is ready to withdraw Bank funds.
Funds Flow. (i) Bankfunds: Bank funds will flow from the Bank to the special accounts to be set up for
the project and/or the contractors or suppliers. Bank loan agreement will be signed between the Bank and
China, and onlending arrangement for the Bank loans will be signed between the MOF and the JPSPC.
The JPSPC will make funds available to the JPEPC for the power sector reform component. (ii)
Counterpart funds: Counterpart funds include equity contributions and domestic bank loans.
Shareholders have been identified and shareholding arrangement finalized, and equity contribution plan
has also been established. Contributions will be made by shareholders directly to the JPSPC.
Commitment to lending by one of the major commercial banks has also been obtained.
Staffing. Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience
commensurate with the work they are expected to perform is one of the factors critical to successful
implementation of project financial management. Based on discussions, observation and review of
educational background and work experience, the task team notes that staff identified for financial or
accounting positions are qualified and appropriate.
As financial or accounting staff of the JPSPC has no prior experience with Bank projects, a focused
training by the JPEPC for the JPSPC prior to effectiveness is highly recommended to ensure good
understanding of Bank policies and procedures. The Bank task team will provide assistance or support as
and when needed.
In addition, in order to provide easy and readily available reference, the JPSPC had submitted to the
Bank task team a draft project financial management manual (Manual). The manual, which is found by
the task team adequate and satisfactory, provides detailed guidelines to financial management, internal
controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal application procedures. The
JPSPC has agreed to make finalized copy available to all relevant project staff before project
- 68 -



effectiveness.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will
be set up in accordance with the following accounting standards or circular issued by the MOF:
a) "Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises" issued by the MOF in 1993 will be used by the
project as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of project financial statements and management
reports. Accrual accounting and double-entry bookkeeping will be adopted by the project.
b) Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in December
1996 by the MOF-includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications and retention of supporting documentation.
c) The Bank and the MOF has agreed to a standard set of project financial statements that applies to
all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:
. Balance sheet
. Statement of source and use of fund by project component
 Statement of implementation of credit or loan agreement
* Statement of special account
"Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises" are modeled after the principles of International
Accounting Standards and provide in-depth guidelines for accounting treatment of revenue-oriented
projects, such as the proposed project.
The JPEPC and JPSPC will be managing, monitoring and maintaining accounts for the component
activities each is responsible for. Original supporting documents for project activities will be retained by
the originating party. In addition, each implementing agency will prepare its financial statements and the
JPSPC will perform further consolidation to arrive at the project level and forward them to the Bank for
reviews and comment on a regular basis.
Internal Audit. There will be an internal audit unit in the JPSPC once the project begins its construction
phase. The Bank task team will evaluate work done by the internal audit unit and take it into
consideration when planning supervision missions.
Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements: The JPEPC and JPSPC will prepare
financial statements for the components each is responsible for and the JPSPC will prepare consolidated
financial statements. It has been advised that the JPEPC will provide all support and assistance for the
JPSPC in respect of financial management and disbursement procedures.
The format and content of the following financial statements represent the standard project reporting
package agreed to between the Bank and the MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with all parties
concerned. The unaudited project consolidated financial statements will be submitted as part of the
Financial Monitoring Report to the Bank on a semiannual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15 of
the subsequent year) and include the following four statements:
* Balance Sheet
. Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component
. Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
. Statement of Special Account
But upon operation, the following unaudited financial statements from the JPSPC will be required to be
submitted to the Bank on a semiannual basis:
. Balance Sheet
. Income Statement
- 69 -



. Statement of Cash Flow
Information Systems. An accounting software package (Suyuan) developed by the JPEPC will be
adopted for the project. Though not a widely circulated software package, Suyuan has been regarded as a
mature product and tailored to the specific accounting environment of a power project. The Bank task
team, during supervision missions at the initial implementation stage, will monitor and evaluate the
software in meeting financial-accounting information needs and recommend corrective measures, if
required.
Supervision Plan. For the initial implementation stage, more frequent supervision missions (such as
twice a year) should be carried out to have better coverage and ensure that project accounts are properly
set up, procurement guidelines are followed, and expenditures incurred are eligible and well supported.
More detailed reviews at the initial implementation phase can also help ensure that financial management
system is functioning as intended and financial statements are prepared in line with stipulated format and
content. The mission frequency can then be subsequently reduced from mid point to the normal level
(once a year). Furthermore, to maximize effectiveness and efficiency, procurement and FM-disbursement
specialists should jointly participate in supervision missions for procurement and SOE ex post reviews.
2. Audit Arrangements
The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards acceptable to
the Bank. In line with other Bank-financed projects in China, the project will be audited in accordance
with the Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (the 1997 edition). The
Jiangsu Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as auditors for the project. Annual audit reports will
be issued in the name of Jiangsu Provincial Audit Bureau and subject to reviews by the China National
Audit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by CNAO or provincial audit
bureaus for which the CNAO is ultimately responsible.
Audit reports on annual consolidated financial statements will be due to the Bank within six months of
the end of each calendar year, with a separate opinion on SOE and Special Account.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
(a) The Bank loans will be disbursed against (i) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment and materials quoted on a CIF basis; (ii) 100 percent of local expenditures ex
factory for locally manufactured items; (iii) 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; and (iv) 91 percent of the expenditures for consulting services, and 100 percent for study
tours and training.
(b) The estimated annual disbursement schedule is shown in the Project Financing Data in page 1 and
detailed in the PIP (available in the project file). It is based on the project implementation schedule
and is in line with Bank experience of pumped storage power project. The disbursements are
expected to be completed in 7 years from 2003 to 2009. The project completion date is expected to
be June 30, 2009 and the loan closing date December 31, 2009.
(c) Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount of US$10 million or less than 10 percent of the loan
amount, would be provided for anticipated expenditures (construction equipment, consulting services
and training) incurred after December 1, 2002 and before signing of the loan.
- 70 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
xEpendIture CeoMy,           6moLifntin US$minllon'>. . - FInancInr Parcentaga
(1) Goods under Part A of Project         125.00             100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (EXW)
75% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2) Consultants' Services                  0.00
(a) Under Part A of Project             3.00                         91%
(b) Under Part B of Project             4.00                         91%
(3) Training and Study Tours               0.00
(a) Under Part A of Project             1.00                        100%
(b) Under Part B of Project             1.00                        100%
(4) Unallocated                            9.55
Total Project Costs                       143.55
Interest during construction       0.00
Front-end fee         1.45                        100%
Total                                     145.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
For expenditures pertaining to goods contracts valued at less than US$500,000, and consulting contracts
valued at less than US$350,000 for firms and US$100,000 for individuals and all training and study
tours, reimbursement will be made on the basis of SOE. Supporting documents need not be submitted to
the Bank but will be retained in the project for review by the Bank supervision missions.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement under this project, a Special Account will be established for the project. The
allocation of SA is determined to not exceed US$6 million equivalent. However, the authorized
allocation will be limited to US$3.5 million equivalent until the aggregate withdrawals and outstanding
Special Commitments will be equal to or exceed US$47 million equivalent. Applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal to 50 percent of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
- 71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
I?roJectShedu&                            K E   Planned -Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    14                         20
First Bank mission (identification)           02/21/2001                 02/21/2001
Appraisal mission departure                   11/04/2002                 11/20/2002
Negotiations                                  01/15/2003                 01/20/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 07/15/2003
Prepared by:
Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Company Ltd.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD funds to the Borrower
Netherlands Trust Funds to the Bank
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                   Speciality
Jianping Zhao                    Senior Energy Specialist (TTL)
Noureddine Berrah                Lead Energy Specialist (c-TTL)
Barry Trembath                   Power Engineering
Yuling Zhou                      Procurement, project implementation, cost estimate
Chau-Ching Shen                  Financial management, financial analysis
Dawei Yang                       Procurement
Clifford Garstang                Lawyer
Margaret Png                     Lawyer
Jack Fritz                       Environment
Scott Hanna                      Environment (consultant)
Youxuan Zhu                      Resettlement (consultant)
Wenjie Wang                      Financial analysis
Chunxiang Zhang                  Team assistant
Cristina Hemandez                Team assistant
Chaohua Zhang                    Resettlement
Robert OLeary                   Disbursement
-72 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project FIle*
.CHINA: Ylxlng Pumped Storage Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, updated version
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Economic Evaluation on Yixing Pumped Storage Power Station
Financial Analysis of Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
Financial Analysis of Yixing Pumped Storage Power Station
Concepts Paper for Market Framework
Jiangsu Power Sector Reform Master Plan
Power Sector Reform Strategy and Implementation Plan
Feasibility Study Report (Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant)
Planning and Site Selection Report
Environmental Assessment Summary
Environmental Impact Assessment
Resettlement Action plan
Construction Schedule, Detail Printouts (by P3 software)
Project Implementation Organization
Review of Upper Reservoir Dam Design
Special Report of POE No. 1
Special Report of POE No. 2
Documents in Infoshop
Summary Environmental Assessment
Environmental Impact Assessment
Resettlement Action Plan
*Including electronic files
- 73 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: YixIng Pumped Storage Project
September 5, 2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID    FY?   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 G;EF    cancel.   undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P064729       2002 SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PRO             93.90      0.00                 0.00      0 00     93.90       0 31      0 00
P058846       2002 National Railway Project                        160.00      0.00                 0 00      000O    115 46      13 80      0.00
P068049       2002 HubeiHFydropower Developmentin Poor Are         106.00      0 00                 0 00      0 00    105 00       2 33      0.00
P070459       2002 Inner Mongolia Highway Project                  100.00      000                  0 00      0.00    100.00       000       0 00
P071147       2002 Tuberculosis Control Project                    104 00      0 00                 0 00      000     103.33      -0.67      0 00
P058845       2001 Jiang)a It Hwy                                  200 00      0 00                 0.00      0 00    184.07       2 41      0 00
P056516       2001 WATER CONSERIVATION                              74 00      0 00                 0 00      0.00     80 55       4 35      0 00
P056596       2001 Shripazhuang Urban Transport                    100 00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     99 00      34.23      0 00
P056199       2001 Third Inland Waterways                          100O.00     0 00                 0 00      000      96 00      -0 17      0 00
P047345       2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL                 106 50      0 00                 0.00      0.00     102.05     -3.45      0 00
P051859       2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                             100 00      0 00                 0.00      000      87 60       0 41      0.00
P045915       2001 Urumqi Urban Transport                          10000       0.00                 0.00      0.00     71 22      2127       0 00
P056424       2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                            320.00      000                  0 00      000      304 94     51 34      0.00
P049436       2000 CN-CHONGOING URBAN ENVIRONMENT                  200 00      0 00                 0-00      0 00     18833      24 23      0.00
P045910       2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      160 00      0.00                 0 00      0 00     140 03     26 20      0 00
PD45264       2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                             93 50      0.00                 0.00      0 00      80 09     2519       0 00
P042109       2000 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT 11                       349.00      0 00                25 00      0 00     352 43    109 47      0 00
P064730       2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project              210.00      0 00                 0.00      0 00     177 31     85 98      0 00
P058844       2000 ard Henan Prov Hwy                              15000D      0.00                 0.00       0 00    122.80     23 94      0 00
P058843       2000 Guangxa Highway                                 200.00      0 00                 0 00       0 00    157 63     35 97      0 00
P046829        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                   100 00      0.00                 000)       0 00     12 87     89 87      0 00
P046,564       1999 Gansu & Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction        80.00     100 00                0 00       0 00     94688     38890      -1 45
P046051        1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC REFORM                           20 00     50.00                 0 00       0 00     31 31     2919       0 00
P003653        1999 ContainerTransport                              71 00      0 00                 0 00       313      21 95     24 82      0 00
P043933        1999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                   150.00      2 00                 0.00       0.00     97886     3893       6.00
P042299        1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                              10 00     35 00                 0 00       000      39 53     -4.46      0 00
P041890        1999 Uaoning Urban Transport                        150 00      0 00                 0 00       000      74 15     51 95       0 00
P036953        1999 CN-HEALTHIX                                     10.00     50 00                 0 00       0.00     42 73     11.34      0 00
P049665        1999 ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                            90 00     30 00                 0.00       0 00     49 77      9 40       0 00
P0516888       1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                            80 00     20 00                 0 00       0 00     60.47     28 44       0 00
P056216       1999 LOESS PLATEAUII1                                100.00     50.00                 0 00       000      80 37     51 01      0 00
P057352        1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                        16.00     30 00                 0 00       0 00     31 38     13 68      -2 87
P058308       1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                             000       5.00                 0 00       0.00      2 53      2 63       0 00
P060270        1999 CN-ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                          000       5 00                 0.00       0 00      3.97      5 76       1 24
P038121        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     0 00      0.00                35 00       0 00     26 88      15 01      0 00
P041268        1999 Nat Hwy4flHubei-Hunan                          350.00      0.00                 0 00       0 00    181 48     62 98       0 00
P051856        1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                 27.40       5860                0.06       0 00     21 29     20 75       0 00
P050036        1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                           200 00      0 00                 0 00       000      9680o     31 00       0 00
P051705        1999 Fujian 11 Highway                              200.00      0 00                 0.00       0 00    128.49     88 83       0 00
P040185       1998 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                          95,00      0.00                 0.00       0 00     30 29     24 58       0 00
P049700        1998 IAIL-2                                         30000       000D                 0 00       0 00     31 51     -2 15       0 00
P036949       1998 Nat Hwy3-Hubei                                  250 00      0.00                 0.00       0 00     47.29     -4 37       0 00
P037859       1968 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                              0 00      0 00                22 00       0 00      510      21 76       0 00
P046952        1996 FOREST 0EV POOR AR                             100.00     100.00                0.00       0.00     64.35    -29.29      53 71
P045788       1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                              230 00      0.00                 0.00       0 00     72 30     37 50       0 00
P051736       1998 E CHINAIJIANGSU PWR                             250 00      0 00                 0 00      88 00     75.91     161 91      3.88
P046563       1996 TARIM BASINII1                                   90.00     80 00                 0 00       2 67     67 53     5178        000D
P003566       1998 CN-BASIC HEALTHI(HLTH8)                           0.00      8500O                0 00       0 00     41 53     22 91       0 00
P003591       1998 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                            150 00      0 00                 0 00      80 91      8 45     82 46       2 13
P003619       1998 2nd Inland Waterways                            123.00      000                  0 00       0 00     76 42     61 42      0 00
P035698        1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                           300.00      0 00                 0.00     10000     173 67    234 67      21 61
P003614       1998 Guangzhou City Transport                        200.00      0.00                 0 00       0.00    129 54     125588      0.00
P003539       1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV               100 00      0.00                 0 00       2 31     49 48      33.46      0 00
- 74 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                   IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel     Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev~d
P036414       1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     72.00     20 00                0 00       0.00     78 15     50.20       0 69
P003606        1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                             63.00      0.00               22 00       0 00     47.82      14 08      0 00
P003637        1997 CN-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                      0.00     70.00                0 00       0 00     11 76      11 52     10 48
P003635        1997 CN-VOC. ED REFORM PROJ                          10.00     20.00                0.00       0.00      0 20       1 33      0 00
P003643        1997 XIn~ang HwyII1                                 300.00      0.00                0 00      60 00     16 94      76 94      8 61
P003650        1997 TUJOKETUO POWERA1NNER                          400.00      0 00                000      102.50     91 22     169 08      -2 35
P038988        1997 HEILONGJIANG ADP                               120.00      0.00                000        0 00     21 46      `19 66     0 00
P036952        1997 CN-BASIC ED. IV                                  0.00     85 00                000        0 00      2 26       50D4      0 00
P036405        1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                           400.00      0 00                0 00      75.00     51 63     124 63      -6 37
P003590        1997 GINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION               30 00    150.00)               0.00       0 00     61 69      64.55      0 00
P035693        1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                              0.00      0.00               32.60       0 00      9 23      22.81      0 03
P044485        1997 SHANGHAI WAJGAOOIAO                            400 00      0.00                0 00       0 00    164 99     104.59      19 53
P034081        1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI. 11                           430.00      000                 0.00       0.00     92 63     123 49     119 52
P003554        1997 Nat Hwy2fHna-IfslGuangdonlg                    400.00      0.00                0.00       0.00    108.73     109 73      0 00
P003589        1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                    0.00    10000D                 0 00      000O     15.31      25 40       0 00
P003594        1996 GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                             60.00     90.00)                000       0 00     91 99      61 62      0 00
P040513       1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                              210.00      0.00                0.00       0 00     60 63      60.63       064
P003599        1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                  125 00     25.00                0.00       0.00     68816      82348      52 44
P003602        1998 CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     125.00     2500D                 0.00     26 32     54 30      84 75      41 60
P003646        1996 CN-CHONGOING IND POL CT                        170.00      000D                 0 00    164 82      2 72     167 54       2 72
P003648        1996 CN-SHANGHAJ SEWERAGE 11                        250.00      0.00                 0.00      0 00     91 13      91 13       6 76
P003649        1996 SHANXI POVERTY AL.LEV                            000     100.00                 000D      0 00      6 57      1589        0 00
P003638        1998 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER                             60.00     20.00                 0.00      9 40     17 77      2622        000
P034618        1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                            10.00     20.00                 0 00      0 00      6 45       8666       0 00
P036947        1995 SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                           27000D      0.00                 0.00     95 00      12 17    107 17       0 41
P003598        1995 CN-LUAONING ENVIRONMENT                        11000       0.00                 0.00      0 00      15 07     15 07       9 33
P003596        1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                            10000     110 00                 0 00      0 00      2 67       520        5 20
P003647        1995 China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA                 000      10.00                 0 00      0.00)      424       486        0 00
P038041        1995 FISCAL &TAX REF. &                              25.00     25.00                 0 00      0 00      064        315        315
P003585        1995 SHIENYANGIND. REFORM                           175 00      0 00                 0 00      0.00     41 52      41 52       000O
P003639        1995 SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT             47.60    200.00                 0.00      0 00      13.36     37 93      37 93
P003571        1995 RAILWAYS Vii                                   400.00      0.00                 000D     109 00     73.10    180 10      2412
P003642        1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                            400 00      0.00                 0 00      0.00      61 17     68 79       0 00
P003603        1995 CN-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF            275.00     75.00                 0.00     20 00     100 40    118 86      60 35
P003600        1995 CN-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                      200.00      0.00                 0 00      3 02      14 44     17 46       0 00
P003540        1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                    000     150 00                 0.00      0 00       1.63     -0 39       0 00
P003586        1994 CN-SHANGHAJ ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                1600(1      0.00                 000       0.00      2965      2965       13 28
P003404        1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                             0.00      0 00                10.00      0 00      0 03       0 78       0 00
P003644        1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                          0.00    110 00                 0.00      0 00      2.04       0 15      -2 43
P003641        1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                           350.00      0.00                 0 00      11.50      3.32     14 82       1 80
P003626        1994 FujianProv Highway                             140.00      0 00                 0.00      18.11     12 29     30.40      30 36
P003609        1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV &CONSERVATION                  265.00      0.00                10.00      0.00      52 16     52 16       0 00
P003595        1994 RED SOILS 1IAREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             0.00    150.00                 0 00      0.00       5685      1.19       0 32
P003692       1993 REF. INSTlLA PREINV                               0.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00      2.65      3 14       2.23
P003473        1993 CN-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENTr             0.00    110.00                 0.00       0 00      1.61      1.79       -2.79
P003632        1993 CN-ENV1RONMENT TECH ASS                          0.00     5000                  0.00       0.00      3 93      464        4 32
P003627        1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                           325.00     165.00                0.00       0.00     32 04     32 88      21.21
P003623        1993 R NANCIAL SECTOR TA                              000(     60.00                 0.00       0.00      2.03     -3.52       .3 52
Total:    13724.60    2617.60             156.80     971.68     6408.11   4185.59     541.82
- 75 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30, 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Commnitted                     Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval       Company                      Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1997              Orient Finance               9.52    0.00    0.00   11.90    9.52   0.00    0.00   11.90
1997/00           PTP Holdings                 0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.03    0.00    0.00
1997              PTP Hubei                    11.72   0.00    0.00   23.29   11.72   0.00    0.00   23.29
1996              Pacific Ports                0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.54    0.00    0.00
2001               Peak Pacific                 0.00   0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC                0.90    0.00    0.00    0.90    0.90   0.00    0.00    0.90
2000               SSIF                         0.00   6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.45     0.00   0.00
1998              Shanghai Krupp              30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80   19.74   0.00    0.00   45.26
1999              Shanxi                       17.87   0.00    0.00    0.00   15.32   0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Shenzhen PCCP                3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76   0.99    0.00    0.00
2001               Sino-Forest                 25.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC                   0.00    2.48    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.48    0.00    0.00
1998              WIT                          5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Wanjie Hospital              15.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996              Weihai Weidongri              1.92   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.92   0.00     0.00   0.00
1993              YantaiCement                 11.13   1.95    0.00    0.00   11.13    1.95    0.00   0.00
1998              Zhen Jing                    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.00     0.00   0.00
2002               Advantage                    0.00    0.25   0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1999/00/02        Bank of Shanghai              0.00  24.67    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.67    0.00   0.00
1996              Beijing Hormel                2.50   0.50    0.00    1.65    2.50    0.50    0.00   1.65
1998/00           CIG Holdings PLC              0.00   3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
2002               CPEF                         0.00   20.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996              Caltex Ocean                 18.53   0.00    0.00   28.64   18.53    0.00    0.00  28.64
1998              Chengdu Huarong               7.40   3.20    0.00    8.60    3.70    3.20    0.00   4.30
1998              Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00   0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00   0.00
1987/92/94        China Bicycles               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1994              China Walden Mgt              0.00   0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00   0.00
1994              China Walden Ven              0.00   0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.00   0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                  0.00   2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00   0.00
1999              Dujiangyan                   25.59   0.00    0.00   30.00   16.11    0.00    0.00   18.89
1995              DupontSuzhou                 12.46   4.15    0.00   10.40   12.46    4.15    0.00  10.40
1994              Dynamic Fund                  0.00   9.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.09    0.00   0.00
1999              Hansom                        0.00   16.10   0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00   0.00
2002              Huarong AMC                  31.50   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002              IEC                          20.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Jingyang                    32.50    0.00    0.00   69.23   32.50    0.00    0.00  69.23
1998              Leshan Scana                  6.10   1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00   0.00
2001              Maanshan Carbon               9.00   2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002              NCCB                          0.00   26.58   0.00    0.00    0.00   26.46    0.00    0.00
1996              Nanjing Kumho                 6.82   3.81    0.00   19.38    6.82    3.81    0.00  19.38
2001              New China Life                0.00   30.70   0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00
1995              Newbridge Inv.                0.00   1.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.95    0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:      304.22  166.98   25.00  277.79  206.13  127.02    0.00  233.84
- 76 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                        Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
2002               Darong                         10.00     0.00      1.50     8.00
2002               Narada Battery                  6.60     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              Zhong Chen                      25.00     0.00      0.00     32.00
2002               ASIMCO                          0.00     13.50     1.50      0.00
2002               Sino Mining                     5.00      0.00     0.00      5.00
2002               Shuang Deng                    12.50      0.00     2.80      0.00
2002               KHUT                            0.00      0.00     3.00      0.00
2002               SML                             0.00      0.00     6.00      0.00
1996              Jingyang                         4.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                  0.00     0.00      0.00      1.50
2000               CIG Zhapu                       6.00      5.00     0.00      0.00
2000               Meijing                         9.00      0.00     0.00      7.30
2000               CIMIC Tile                     15.00      5.00     0.00     15.00
2001               Daning Coal                     0.00      0.00     2.00     15.00
2001               AACI                            0.00      0.00     2.00      0.00
2001               Minsheng                        0.00     23.50     0.00      0.00
2002               Huarong AMC                    15.00      0.00     3.00      0.00
2002              IEC                              0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Conunitment:     108.10    52.00     21.80    83.80
-77-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &   middle-
China    Pacific  Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                   1,262.5    1,853     2,046                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   840     1,060     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                  1.061 2    1,964     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population l%)                                       1.0       1.1       10      GNI
Labor force (I%)                                     1.2       1.4       1.3     GNI          7                 Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (iatest year avallable, 1994-00)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  5
Urban population (% of total population)              36        35       42
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       70        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              30        35       32
Child malnutntion (X of children under5)               9        13       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)  75        75       80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  16        14       15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  123     119       114             China
Male                                               123       121      116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             123       121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economnic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                        2162     3630      997.5    1,0769
Gross domestic InvestmentVGDP               35 2    34 7      37.2      37 3                    T
Exports of goods and services/GDP            7.6    17.5      22.0      25.9                     rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  34.9    37 9      40.1      39.9
Gross national savings/GDP                  34.9    38.3      38.7      39 2
Current account balance/GDP                 -0.4     3.8        1.6      1.9     Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                       0.2      0 7       0.6       0.7
Total debt/GDP                                ..     15.2      15.5     13.9     savings
Total debt service/exports                   8.0     9.9       9.0       7.4
Present value of debtGDP                     ..               13.5
Present value of debVexports                 ..       ..      58.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                10.1     10.3     7.1        7 9      7.4              China
GDP per capita                      8.5      9.2     6.1       7.2       6.7              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      11 0     16.5    13.9      32 0      11.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth o1 Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                       20
Agricutture                                 30.1    27.0       17.6     15 9
Industry                                   48.5     41.6      49.4      50.9    15
Manufacturing                             40 5     32.9      33.6      34.5    ol
Services                                   21.4     31.3      32.9      33.2     s
Private consumption                         50 5    49 9      47 4      47.0           95    9e   97    us   99    oo
General govemment consumption               14.6    12.1      12.5      13.1
Imports of goods and services               7 9     14 3       19 1     23.2              -GD*              GDP
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  5 9     4 1       2.8       2.4    40
industry                                    11.1    13.7       8.1       9.6    30
Manufacturing  -                          11.1     134        8.3       9.7    20
Services                                    13 5     9.0       7.5       7.8    ito                          9950
Pnvate consumption                          9.4      8.8       2.6       6.0
General govemment consumption                9 8     9.4       8.4      12.0   .-i           96   97    Oa   go    o
Gross domestic investment                   10.8     11 6       3.2      7.9                  Exports    eImports
Imports of goods and services               9.1     16.1      22.3      24.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete
- 78 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                            6.0     3.1      -1.4     0.4     20.
Implicit GDP deflator                      5.6     5.5     -2.2      0.9
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                          o           9f    97
Current revenue                           25.7    19.7      15.0    15.3    0o
Current budget balance                      ..     3.0       1.3     0 6                 GDP deflator  @CP1
Overall surplus/deficit                   -1.5    -0.8      -4.0    -3 6
TRADE
(USSm*iOllons)                           1980    1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                     18,270  62,091   194,931  249,210   aoo,ooo
Food                                   2,985   6,609    10,458   12,282
Fuel                                   4,280   5,237     4,659    7,851    2
Manufactures                           9,005   46,205  174,990  223.752
Total Imports (cif)                     20,017  53,345   165,699  225.097              m    -   L   L    h
Food                                   2,927   3,335     3,619    4,758    100        l00
Fuel and energy                          203    1,272    8,912   26,037
Capitalgoods                           5,119   16,845   69,469   91,934
94  Os   96  97   9S  59  50
Export price Index (1995--00)              25      78        69       67
Import price index (1995--100)             22      80        71       75                 Exports    U Irniorts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                 116       97       98       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                           1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services           20,167  67,971   218,496  279,561    5 .
Imports of goods and services           20,859  55,537   189,799  250,6803
Resource balance                         -692   12,433    28,697  28,873
Net income                                -100   1,055   -17,973  -14,666    3                l
Net current transfers                        .    274      4,943   6,311     2
Current account balance                   -792  13,762    15,668   20,519    1 -
Financing Items (net)                           -7,673    -7,163   -9,971        4
Changes in rnet reserves                    ..   -6,089   98,505  -10,548    _   4    s   asi  07    ra rs    oo.
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..  16,963   161,404  171,753
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLUSS)            2.1     5 1       8.2      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                               Composition of 2000 debt (USS mdil.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        .   55,301   154,223  149,800
IBRD                                      ..   2,865    10,400   11,118
IDA                                        .   3,016     8,907    8,771                             e 8,771
Total debt service                       1,652   7,057    20,655   21,728                                D 2,556
IBRD                                      ..     416     1,142    1,291
IDA                                       ..      19      117      131
Compositon of net resource flows                                                     |    .               E: 28.510
Official grants                           7      143      201      147                     .
Official creditors                        ..   1,727     1,706    1,928              .-. .
Private creditors                         ..      ..    -1,854    1,985
Foreign direct Investment                57    3,487    41,015   42,096
Portfolio equity                          0        0     1,808    7,814         F 91,67
World Bank program
Commitments                               ..     953     2,097    1,536    A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             ..   1,098     1,756    1,907    8 - IDA  D - Other rnvltllateras  F - Private
Principal repayments                      ..     216      558      644     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Netflows                                  ..     882     1,198    1,263
Interest payments                         ..     219      701      778
Net transfers                             ..     663      497      485
Development Economics                                                                                        9--1
- 79 -



Additional Annex 11: Environmental Summary
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Project Description
1. The project consists of a 75 m high main concrete faced rockfill dam, and a 35 m, high auxiliary
concrete gravity dam behind which the 0.21 km upper reservoir will be contained on the top of
Tongguan Mountain; reconstruction of the lower reservoir dam to a 50 m high clay core rockfill dam,
behind which the 1.87 km lower reservoir will be contained; 1129 m of diversion tunnel and 1454 m of
tailrace tunnel; 1000 MW underground powerhouse or pumping station; and 6.3 km of 500 kV
transmission lines; and 3.2 km of makeup water or balancing water works pumping station and supply
pipeline. The project parameters are summarized in Annex 2.
Environmental Studies
2. The draft EA report was prepared for the project by the ECIDI as part of the feasibility studies, and
submitted to the SEPA through JEPB in January 2000. The EA report was formally approved by SEPA in
November 2000. Bank environmental specialists reviewed the EA documents in late 2000, and provided
critical review comments. The ECIDI revised the draft EA in May 2001 and again in November 2001,
based on further review by the Bank.
3. The relevant Chinese regulations and standards have been strictly adhered to, as have the Bank's own
environmental safeguard policies. The project is classed as Category A, requiring a full environmental
assessment (EA). Fieldwork has included biophysical surveys to monitor water quality, identify
vegetation resources, and potential wildlife habitat, and land use. Because the project involves
involuntary resettlement, a RAP was prepared for the project. Full disclosure has ensured a wide
awareness of the project within the Yixing area, with the vast majority of inhabitants showing positive
support.
The Existing Natural Environment
4. Climate. The proposed Yixing Pumped Storage Project is located in an area influenced by the
subtropical monsoon climate zone, which is characterized by mild temperatures, annual monsoon rains,
and four clearly distinct seasons. The average annual temperature is 15.7 C. The minimum average
monthly temperature is -0.6 0C, which occurs in January. The maximum average monthly temperature is
30.8 0C, which occurs in July. Average annual precipitation is 1,241.2 mm, spread over three rainy
seasons (spring rains-April/May; plum rains-June/July; and typhoon rains-late August/early
September). Average annual evaporation on water surface is 879.1 mm. Average annual wind speed is
3.0 m/s. The prevailing wind direction is from the southeast.
5. Geology, Soils and Landform Features. The topography of Yixing County is typified by hilly and
mountainous terrain in the south and low lying alluvial flood plains in the north and northwest. The
terrain in the western and eastern portions of Yixing County is dominated by low lying ridges that border
Taihu Lake. Tongguan Mountain, where the proposed Yixing Pumped Storage Project (YPSP) will be
built, has a maximum elevation of 529.9 m asl. The upper reservoir will be located on the north side of
the main peak of Tongguan Mountain, in an irregular shallow col. The elevation of the hilltops
surrounding the reservoir is roughly 500 m - 527 m asl. The existing Haiwu reservoir, which will be
expanded to become the YPSP lower reservoir, is located within a gully of the Nanyuesi section of the
lower slopes of Tongguan Mountain, on its northeast side. The lower reservoir is surrounded on three
sides by the hills that form a northeast trending gully. The base of the reservoir near its upper end, has an
- 80 -



elevation of 50 m  65m asl. The basic earthquake intensity within the area is Class VI.
6. Various kinds of soils are found, including yellowish brown soil, red soil, limestone soil, rice (paddy)
soil, moist soil and marsh soil. The hilly region is dominated by yellowish brown soil, brownish red soil
and limestone soil-the low-lying region is predominantly covered by clay-the rolling terrain is
generally dominated by red soil-whereas the floodplain region is predominantly comprised of yellow
muddy soil, white muddy soil and black muddy soil. The yellowish brown soil, red soil and rice (paddy)
soil are the predominant soil types within the project area.
7. Hydrology and Water Quality. The Huangtong River system is a small river, 5 km in length, which
begins as Huangtong Creek on the northeast side of Tongguan Mountain, and flows via Meiyuan to
Tuanjiu Lake, from which the makeup or balancing waters for the Yixing Pumped Storage Project will be
obtained. The water quality of the Tuanjiu Lake conforms to Grade m of The Environmental Quality
Standard for Surface Water (GHZB 1-1999). The relatively poor water quality is the result of domestic
sewage and industrial waste water discharges, which are expected to decline once a number of new
sewage plants now under construction in the region, become operational. From the point where the creek
becomes the river, to where the river enters its estuary in Tuanjiu Lake is a distance of about 3.5 km. The
waters in the existing Huiwu Reservoir (proposed YPSP lower reservoir) are of high quality year round,
and contain low concentrations of suspended sediment.
8. Flora. The upper and lower reservoir areas of the proposed YPSP are vegetated by commercial
plantation forests of pine, fir, and bamboo, as well as commercial tea gardens. Growing among the pine
and fir forests as ground cover are common varieties of forbs and grasses. According to investigations of
the Yixing Forest and Agriculture Bureau, no rare or unique species of plants, or plants protected by
national or local regulations, are found within the project area. There are no parks or nature preserves
within the project area.
9. Fauna. The commercial forestry plantations are managed by the Yixing Forestry Farm and harvested
for their timber. Occasionally, forestry workers have reported seeing wild pigs, yet-hares, rats, snakes,
frogs, and so forth. Historically, the pangolin and a variety of salamander, all of which are Grade II listed
species, were found in the area. However, because thiey have not been observed for many years, they are
no longer considered to inhabit the project area. There are no other rare or endangered species of wildlife
(that is, Category I or H listed species) found within the proposed YPSP project area. There are no parks
or nature preserves within the project area.
10. Aquatic Organisms. The aquatic ecosystems of the project area and adjacent water bodies have
been extensively modified by centuries of human influence and occupation. The main species produced
include finless eel, black carp, grass carp, silver carp, crucian carp, bream, Taihu lake silver fish, and
river eel. Within the local rivers and lakes, there are no state or provincial listed varieties of aquatic
organisms. Artificial fish culturing is carried out in the existing Huiwu Reservoir, where silver carp,
bream, crucian carp, grass carp and green carp are produced. Common varieties of fish, such as silver
carp, bream, crucian carp and eels occur within the watersheds, including Tuanjiu Lake and Huangtong
River, from which makeup or balancing water will be removed for the project.
11. Unique Natural Habitats. There are no critical wetland habitats, karst features or native forest
habitats within the project affected area. The project will be constructed within the Yixing Forestry
Farm, which is essentially a monoculture type plantation forest of Chinese fir (Cunningham lanceolata)
and Yunnan pine (Pinus yunnanensis), which is used for lumber and wood fiver production. Because of
its composition, the forest area provides limited biodiversity potential, including limited wildlife habitat.
- 81 -



The Social Environment
12. The project is situated within Yixing County, a relatively prosperous area in Jiangsu Province, which
has a large manufacturing base. The project area is well served by major highways, telecommunications
systems, medical facilities, schools and other amenities. The project area suffers from a relatively low
disease incidence level, signifying that the population is healthy. The primary infectious diseases are
hepatitis and dysentery.
Impact Areas
13. The main impact areas are those areas at which the upper dams (main and ancillary) will be
constructed, the lower dam raised, the upper reservoir area cleared, the work camps and ancillary support
facilities constructed, and the transmission line corridors cleared.
Most Significant Impacts
14. The most important impacts are as follows:
(a) Exposure of cut and fill slopes to the forces of erosion during construction of the pumped storage
project, ancillary support facilities, and roads;
(b) Construction and operations impacts on downstream wells used by water companies and one
hotel as sources of potable water;
(c) Construction (blasting) impacts on TV and Microwave stations located at the top of Tongguan
Mountain, adjacent to the upper reservoir dams;
(d) Short-term impact of large construction work forces moving into the area;
(e) Some tree cutting and vegetation clearing along short sections of the transmission line
rights-of-way, where clearance distances cannot be provided by tower siting on high points of land;
and
(f) Potential effects of noise and electromagnetic flux (EMF) from transmission lines and
substations.
These and some of the less significant impacts are discussed in more detail in the following sections
together with the principal mitigation measures that will or have been adopted. The impacts and
mitigation measures are also summarized in a table together with the related plans for environmental
management and monitoring.
Impacts during Construction and Related Mitigation Measures
15. Excavation of Cut and Fill Slopes. Most heavy construction activities for the project will be
concentrated in the vicinity of the upper and lower dam sites, quarry sites, spoils disposal areas, and
related ancillary service areas, where substantial surface excavations will be required. However, in these
areas excavated slopes are designed with proper consideration of disposal of excess material into suitable
spoil disposal areas, ensuring that soil erosion potential can be limited. The potential for soil erosion and
mass wasting associated with improper earthworks construction is greater for road construction where
side-casting, rather than end-hauling of the spoils results in overly steep slopes that are prone to failure,
especially when they become saturated in heavy monsoon rains. Sound design and construction practices
are the appropriate response, and will be written into construction contracts.
16. Damage to Telecommunications Stations. Two critical telecommunications stations sit atop
Tongguan Mountain-the Yixing 173 Microwave Communication Control Station, and the Yixing TV
-82 -



Transmitting Station. The microwave station is located on the southwest side of the site proposed for the
upper reservoir. The TV station is located on the south side of the upper reservoir area. Special measures
will be employed to protect the TV and Microwave transmission stations from the effects of blasting
during construction. In addition, the project will pay for the TV tower to be relocated.
17. Damage to Aquatic Ecosystem. To facilitate the passage of water to the intake structure, a short
section of the Huangtong River arm of Tuanjiu Lake will be dredged. There are no rare or unique species
of fish or other aquatic organisms encountered in the affected area. Therefore, dredging of the channel
will not have any significant effects on local fish populations.
18. Disruption of Social Structure and Degraded Health. The influx of hundreds of workers to the
project construction sites (particularly the lower reservoir area, which is closer to Yixing) has the
potential to introduce infectious disease into the rest of the work force, as well as within the resident
population. Regular medical examinations, appropriate waste processing and hygiene practices in
construction camps (especially for dining areas and toilet facilities), and provision of basic medical
facilities are effective control measures.
19. Other construction impacts relate to air pollution arising from dust from construction activities,
construction equipment exhaust emissions and blasting products; degraded water quality because of
effluents from construction camps and construction material processing; elevated noise levels; and
additional traffic. These impacts are common to all large infrastructure construction and appropriate
mitigation measures are well established. They are summarized in Attachment 1.
Impacts During Operation and Related Mitigation Measures
20. Reservoirs. The two reservoirs (upper and lower) will be small bodies of water (0.21 and 1.87 kmn,
respectively) with relatively large daily drawdown regimes. The existing lower reservoir will be
expanded about 15 percent to 20 percent in the upstream direction when its level is raised. The pumped
storage system will operate primarily as a closed system, with makeup water pumped from one of the
canals connecting to Tuanjiu Lake. Based on this design and operating parameters, no significant impacts
are expected to accrue as a result of creation of the upper and lower dams and the reservoirs behind them.
Removal of 0.48 mn/sec of water for construction, initial reservoir filling, makeup or balancing during
operations and for irrigation use is estimated to lower the level of Tuanjiu Lake by only 1.94 mm. This
will have no obvious or significant impacts on environmental conditions or on other users of this body of
water.
21. Downstream Water Quality. The power station will be staffed by 242 persons, many of whom will
also reside in staff residences. Sewage and gray water will be produced at an estimated rate of 54.5 mn
/day. This domestic wastewater will be treated using septic tank systems, before the treated effluent is
released to the Huangtong River via surface drainage courses. There is the potential for wells located
within 30 m of the watercourse to be adversely affected by these discharges. Therefore, the YPSP will
undertake a program of well-water monitoring to determine if the quality of water in any of these wells is
being affected. If it is found that water quality is being degraded, then the YPSP will provide alternate
sources of clean water, including, if necessary, connections to the Yixing Water Supply Works.
22. Downstream Flow Regime. At present, the only downstream flows occurring from the lower
reservoir are rainy season spillage and irrigation releases into the 2 km irrigation canal during the
irrigation season. The irrigation releases will be guaranteed during project construction and operation.
23. Tourism and Scenic Values. Areas that are disturbed during construction will be rehabilitated as the
last step in the construction process. Spoils disposal sites, works yards and other temporary sites will be
leveled and landscaped with trees, shrubs and flowers. Although no recreation will be allowed on the two
reservoirs, construction of the paved service road into the upper reservoir area will improve accessibility
- 83 -



to the area. The combination of improved access and the scenic vistas offered from the top of Tongguan
Mountain may stimulate development of a small local tourism enterprise.
24. General Mitigation Measures. All relevant Chinese standards that apply to design, construction and
operation of the project will be respected. Among the construction practices specified are use of
appropriate drainage, collectors and settling basins to intercept sediment laden waters and prevent
surface water contamination; decommissioning and reclaiming quarry sites; and prohibiting construction
workers from hunting within the project area.
Environmental Management and Monitoring
25. An environmental management organization will be established for the project. During the
construction period, the project environmental management organization will be responsible for the
following:
(a) Regular monitoring of potentially harmful emissions including effluents and runoff, atmospheric
and noise;
(b) Supervision of the safety and health aspects during construction such as sanitation, worker
protection from job-related injury, prevention of epidemic disease, including control of insect and
rodent pests;
(c) Restoration work such as decommissioning access roads and quarries, placing soil over
recontoured land, and seeding or planting vegetation; and
(d) Maintenance of environmental data, records and files, plus preparation of regular status reports.
26. The environmental monitoring activities are summarized in Table All-1. A substantial budget has
been approved for the environmental management and monitoring component of the project. This is in
addition to the funds allocated for resettlement activities. The budget (in yuan) for construction period
environmental management and monitoring is as shown in Table Al 1-2.
Table All-1. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN - Operations and Maintenance
Phase
Environmental     Environmental           Responsible Authority  Supervising
Issue             Management Actions                            Authority
Implement         Conducting public       Power station Operator  Yixing Environment
reservoir area    education program;                            Protection Bureau
safety program    installing waming signs;
installing guard rails
around reservoirs
Training Power    Training managerial     Power station Operator  Yixing Environment
Station Operator's  personnel of power station                  Protection Bureau
environmental     on environment
monitoring        management, conducting
personnel         education on
environmental protection
and safety for inhabitants
Environment       Monitor reservoir waters  Power station Operator  Yixing Environment
monitoring        and spring or well waters                     Protection Bureau,
downstream of reservoirs                      Yixing Environment
Monitor Station,
- 84 -



Table A11-2. Budget for Environmental Management and Monitoring during Construction
(yuan)
Environmental Management, Protection and Monitoring Measures           Cost (Yuan)
Construction Phase
Enviromnental Protection Measures for Yixing TV Transmission Station        3,124,700
Environmental Protection Measures for Yixing 173 Microwave Station           995,000
Fish Screens at Makeup or Balancing Water Pumping Station Intake              50,000
Soil and Water Conservation                                                20,461,700
Process Wastewater and Sewage Treatment Facilities                          8,319,000
Worker Health and Safety; Public Health Protection                           600,000
Potable Water Supply for Water Users Located Downstream of Upper Reservoir   549,500
Air Quality Protection and Control                                           490,000
Noise Mitigation                                                             100,000
Enviromnent Monitoring                                                      1,080,000
Establishing YPSP Environmental Management Office (including civil works,    800,000
office facilities, staff wages, training and daily operating costs)
Managemient and Training                                                     920,000
Operations and Maintenance Phase
Operation of Sewage and Wastewater Treatmnent Systems                        400,000
Public Safety                                                                100,000
Envirornmental Monitoring (to come out of Operating Budget)
TOTAL EMP BUDGET (RMB Yuan)                  37,989,900
Note: Equipment costs are included - See the full EIA report for a more complete breakdown.
27. A training program will be implemented as part of the environmental management component of the
project, to enhance environmental awareness amongst key personnel involved with construction and
operation. Staff directly engaged in the assessment and monitoring of environmental conditions will be
given additional specialized training.
Consultations with the Public
28. Meetings were held, and surveys conducted, with various local government agencies, business
enterprises, and social groups in January 1999 and February 2001.
29. In January 1999, May 2000, and February 2001, the project-affected persons (PAPs) were surveyed.
Siaff and family that will be involuntarily resettled from the Nanyuesi Branch of the Yixing Forestry
Farm, residents of Meiyan and Jiangli villages (from Highway 104 to the lower reservoir), and some
citizens of downtown Yixing City were interviewed using a standardized questionnaire.
30. Information on the YPSP has been disclosed to the public via numerous public information events
presented in television and radio broadcasts, and newspaper articles. In addition to being provided with
ififormation on the project, the public has been given details on how it can provide its comments and
recommendations to the project authorities.
31. In order to solicit opinions and comments of the public on the Environmental Impact Assessment
Report of Yixing Pumped Storage Power Project (Chinese version), an announcement was issued on the
front page of the Yixing Daily Newspaper on 06 March 2001, inviting the public to review the report at
the Yixing Environmental Protection Station offices and to provide comments and recommendations on
the EIA report.
-85 -



32. Over the period 20 March 2001 to 04 April 2001, a total of 14 members of the public reviewed the
report and provided their comments.
Table A11-3. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN - Construction Phase
Environmental     Environmental           Responsible Authorit   Supervising
Issue             Management Actions                             Authority
Protect or relocate  Removal, consolidation  Project owner       Competent
TV station and    and protection of                              higher-level
microwave station  buildings                                     authorities of
Yixing Environment
Protection Bureau,
TV Station and
Microwave Station
Protect remaining  Enforce no hunting, and  Project owner,       Contractor's
wildlife and plants  no cutting regulations  Contractor          Environmental
Supervisor; and
Yixing Forestry
Bureau
Mitigate Noise    Prevention of noise and  Contractor            Contractor's
Impacts           control of noise sources at                    Environmental
night                                          Supervisor; and
Yixing Environment
Protection Bureau
Control Fugitive  Regular sprinkling on   Contractor              Contractor's
Dust               working faces                                  Environmental
Supervisor; and
Yixing Environment
Protection Bureau
Protect surface and  Treating production  Contractor              Contractor's
ground water by    wastewater by using                            Environmental
controlling sewage  settlement basins and                         Supervisor; and
and process       oil-water separators;                           Yixing Environment
wastewater        separating domestic                             Protection Bureau
sewage, treating fecal
sewage by septic tanks,
and treating sewage from
dinning room by oil-water
separators and stage 2
biochemical treatment.
Compensate for fish Purchasing lump sum    Yixing Environmental   Yixing fishery
and fishery impacts  endowment insurance for  Protection Science and  departments
managerial personnel,   Technology Zone,
installing fish at the  Project owner
makeup or balancing
water intake.
Public health     Regular health inspection,  Project owner,      Yixing Sanitation
protection        sterilizing drinking water,  Contractor         and Antiepidemic
collecting and disposing                       Station
of domestic refuse and
- 86 -



construction debris
Ensure irrigation  Build new irrigation   Project owner         Yixing agricultural
water supply for  supply pipeline and                           departments
agricultural      connect with makeup or
production        balancing water pumping
system                                        _
Protect surface   Implement engineering   Project owner,        Contractor's
waters from       measures for stabilizing  Contractor          Environmental
sedimentation and  slopes of spoil disposal                      Supervisor;
prevent soil loss  sites, reservoir banks, and                   Provincial and
other cut and fill slopes;                    municipal soil and
install slope drains to                       water conservancy
divert water from erodible                    office; and Yixing
soils; carry out timely                        Environment
re-vegetation, and                            Protection Bureau
restoration of temporarily
occupied-lands; install
concrete aprons in
reservoir intake or
discharge areas       _
Resettlement      Construct replacement   Project owner,        Yixing
housing with sewage                           Environment
collection and treatment                      Protection Bureau
systems and potable water
systems; landscape area;
implement soil and water
conservation measures
Training YPSP    Train managerial personnel Project owner,       Yixing Environment
environmental staff of project owner on  Contractor              Protection Bureau
(owners and      environment management,
contractors)     provide environmental
awareness training for
constructors, including
training on environmental
protection laws and
regulations
Environmental     Carry out monitoring of  YPSP EMO; Yixing      Yixing Environment
monitoring        surface water, and      Environment Monitoring  Protection Bureau
domestic potable water  Station; Yixing
(primarily from springs  Sanitation and
and wells); noise; air  Anti-epidernic Station;
quality                 Yixing Water and Soil
Conservation Station
- 87 -



Additional Annex 12: Financial Assessment Arrangement
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
I.   Executive Summary and Conclusion
1. The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management
system of the Yixing Pumped Storage Project. The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the
Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets minimum
Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the
project will have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format
agreed with the project and as required by the Bank.
2. Funding sources for the project include Bank loan, equity contribution and domestic borrowing. The
Bank loan will be signed between the Bank and the People's Republic of China through its MOF. The
Bank loan will then be onlent from the MOF to the JPSPC, owner of the proposed project. The JPSPC
will directly manage project special account, which will be established at a major commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to the special account and/or
directly to the contractors or suppliers. In terms of disbursement technique, the project will be disbursing
based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using PMR-based disbursements, in
accordance with the agreement between the Bank and the MOF.
3. No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved in the
proposed project. The task team however will continue to be attentive to financial management matters
and audit covenants during project supervisions.
II. Summary Project Description
4. The development objectives of the project are to increase overall system efficiency of the power
sector in Jiangsu Province through designing and implementing a far reaching restructuring of the sector
and furthering of competition.
5. The main components of the project include the following:
Construction of Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant: To be executed by the JPSPC.
Power sector restructuring: To be executed by the JPEPC.
6.   Total estimated project financing required is about US$583 million, including IBRD of LUS$145
million.
III. Country Issues
7. To date, no CFAA has been performed for China, though dialogue with the Govemment of China in
respect of the CFAA exercise has been initiated and underway. The planned approach to CFAA is to
build on Asian Development Bank's study of Financial Management and Govemance Issues in China in
2000, and analyze areas that have changed rapidly in the past few years or that deserve further scrutiny
and over time cover all major areas usually assessed as part of a full CFAA exercise. Currently, for
reference purpose, the Bank relies on study work conducted by the Asian Development Bank.
8. Nevertheless, based on observations of developments in the areas of public expenditures, accounting
and auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we note that substantial
achievement in the aforementioned areas has been made and further improvement is expected in the next
- 88 -



few years. As economic reform program further unfolds, the Government of China has come to realize
the importance of establishing and maintaining an efficient and effective market mechanism to ensure
transparency and accountability, and minimize potential fraud or corruption.
9. Because of a unique arrangement by the Government of China, funding (in particular, a Bank loan)
of Bank projects is controlled and monitored by the MOF and its extension, that is, finance bureaus at
provincial, municipal-prefectural, and county levels. However, project activities are usually carried out
by implementing agencies of a specific industry or sector, mainly because of technical expertise required
for project implementation. The above arrangement then usually requires frequent and close coordination
work on the project, as multilevel management of funding and implementation mechanism often presents
a great challenge to smooth project implementation.
IV. Risk Analysis
10. The following risks with corresponding mitigating measures have been identified during assessment
processes:
Risk                    Risk Rating  Mitigating Measures
I. Inherent project risk  Moderate
II. Control risk:        Moderate   Constant monitoring by the JPSPC and close follow-up by
Bank task team
a. Implementing entity   Moderate   lose monitoring by the JPSPC and assistance from Bank
task team
b. Funds flow            Moderate   Timely disbursement by the JPSPC and monitoring by Bank
task team
c. Staffing                Low      Follow-up by Bank task team to ensure proper and adequate
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ taffin g _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
d. Accounting policies and  Low     Established guidelines are already available
procedures
e. Internal audit        Moderate   Evaluate on a regular basis work expected to be performed
y the intemal audit unit to be established in the JPSPC, and
determiine the impact on FM supervision
f. External audit        Moderate   Quality control by provincial audit bureau and CNAO
g. Reporting and         Moderate   Periodic review by the lPSPC and the task team
monitoring
h. Information system    Moderate   Monitor through periodic review and follow up during
supervision missions
V.   Strengths and Weaknesses
l1. Strength  During project preparation stage, the JPEPC, an entity with extensive experience with
Bank-financed projects, plays an extremely important role for major aspects of the proposed project,
including financial management and disbursement. The valuable experience gained by the JPEPC from
prior Bank assisted projects will be passed on to the JPSPC and the project. The JPEPC will also
implement one of the three components of the project. There is a strong sense of commitment from the
proposed project to sound financial management practice and compliance with Bank's disbursement
procedures.
12. Weakness Though project staff of the JPSPC identified to assume financial and accounting work for
the project have relevant academic background and work experience, they nonetheless have less exposure
to internationally accepted standard practices and therefore would require closer monitoring and
assistance from the Bank, in particular at the initial implementation stage. Training in project financial
-89 -



management should be provided by the JPEPC prior to effectiveness, and Bank will provide assistance as
and when needed throughout project implementation.
VI. Implementing Entity
13. Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Company has been formally established and registered with
governing agency to be directly in charge of all aspects relating to the construction and operation of
Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant. The JPEPC will be responsible for the construction of
Transmission Line and Power Sector Restructuring component. During preparation stage, the JPEPC, a
very experienced borrower with Bank projects, assists the JPSPC with various aspects of the proposed
project, including financial management and disbursement procedures.
14. The finance department of the JPSPC, with assistance and guidance from finance division of the
JPEPC, will be directly responsible for monitoring, financing arrangement, financial management, and so
forth. It will also be responsible for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling special account to be
established for the project, and preparing and verifying withdrawal applications before submitting to the
Bank for disbursement processing. The JPEPC's knowledge of and experience in Bank's disbursement
procedures will prove valuable when the JPSPC is ready to withdraw Bank funds.
VII. Funds Flow
15. Bankfunds Bank funds will flow from the Bank to the special accounts to be set up for the project
and/or the contractors or suppliers. Bank loan agreement will be signed between the Bank and the MOF,
and onlending arrangement for the Bank loans will be signed between the MOF and the JPSPC. Fund
flows are as follows:
16. Counterpart funds Counterpart funds include equity contributions and domestic bank loans.
Shareholders have been identified and shareholding arrangement finalized, and equity contribution plan
has also been established. Contributions will be made by shareholders directly to the JPSPC.
Commitment to lending by one of the major commercial banks has also been obtained.
VIII. Staffing
17. Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience commensurate
with the work they are expected to perform is one of the factors critical to successful implementation of
project financial management. Based on discussions, observation and review of educational background
and work experience, the task team notes that staff identified for financial or accounting positions are
qualified and appropriate.
18. As financial or accounting staff of the JPSPC has no prior experience with Bank projects, a focused
training by the JPEPC for the JPSPC prior to effectiveness is highly recommended to ensure good
understanding of Bank policies and procedures. The Bank task team will provide assistance or support as
and when needed.
19. In addition, in order to provide easy and readily available reference, the JPSPC had submitted to the
Bank task team a draft project financial management manual (Manual). The manual, which is found by
the task team adequate and satisfactory, provides detailed guidelines to financial management, internal
controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal application procedures. The
JPSPC has agreed to make finalized copy available to all relevant project staff before project
effectiveness.
- 90 -



IX. Accounting Policies and Procedures
20. The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be set up in accordance with the
following accounting standards or circular issued by the MOF:
a. "Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises" issued by the MOF in 1993 will be used by the
project as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of project financial statements and management
reports. Accrual accounting and double-entry bookkeeping will be adopted by the project.
b. Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in December
1996 by the MOF - includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications and retention of supporting documentation.
c. The Bank and the MOF has agreed to a standard set of project financial statements that applies to
all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:
* Balance Sheet
* Statement of source and use of fund by project component
* Statement of Implementation of credit or loan agreement
21. "Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises" are modeled after the principles of International
Accounting Standards and provide in-depth guidelines for accounting treatment of revenue-oriented
projects, such as the proposed project.
22. The JPEPC and JPSPC will be managing, monitoring and maintaining accounts for the component
activities each is responsible for. Original supporting documents for project activities will be retained by
the originating party. In addition, each implementing agency will prepare its financial statements and the
JPSPC will perform further consolidation to arrive at financial statements at the project level and forward
them to the Bank for reviews and comment on a regular basis.
X. Internal Audit
23. There will be an internal audit unit in the JPSPC once the project begins its construction phase.
The Bank task team will evaluate work done by the internal audit unit and take it into consideration when
planning supervision missions.
XI. External Audit and Audit Reports
24. The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank-financed projects in China, the project will be audited in
accordance with the Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (the 1997
edition). The Jiangsu Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as auditors for the project. Annual
audit reports will be issued in the name of Jiangsu Provincial Audit Bureau and subject to reviews by the
CNAO. The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by the CNAO or provincial audit bureaus for
which the CNAO is ultimately responsible.
25. Audit reports on annual consolidated financial statements will be due to the Bank within six months
of the end of each calendar year, with a separate opinion on SOE and Special Account.
XII. Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements
26. The JPEPC and JPSPC will prepare financial statements for the components each is responsible for
- 91 -



and the JPSPC will prepare consolidated financial statements. It has been advised that the JPEPC will
provide all support and assistance for the JPSPC in respect of financial management and disbursement
procedures.
27. The format and content of the following financial statements represent the standard project reporting
package agreed to between the Bank and the MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with all parties
concerned. The financial statements will be submitted as part of the Financial Monitoring Report to the
Bank on a semiannual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15 of the subsequent year) and include the
following four statements:
* Balance Sheet
* Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component
* Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
* Statement of Special Account
Upon operation, the following financial statements from the JPSPC will be required to be submitted on a
semiannual basis:
XIII. Information Systems
28. An accounting software package (Suyuan) developed by the JPEPC will be adopted for the project.
Though not a widely circulated software package, Suyuan has been regarded as a mature product and
tailored to the specific accounting environment of a power project. The Bank task team during
supervision missions at the initial implementation stage will monitor and evaluate the software in
meeting financial and accounting information needs and recommend corrective measures, if required.
XIV. Impact of Procurement Arrangements
29.  Threshold set for procurement post-review  will be consistent with that set for SOE for
disbursement purpose. To have maximum effectiveness and efficiency, financial management specialist
and procurement staff should jointly participate in supervision missions to ensure the following:
* Contracts awarded are in line with the Bank's procurement guidelines;
* Contract payments made are in accordance with the terms of the contract and well supported
XV. Disbursement Arrangements
30. The project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and the MOF.
31. One special account will be established for the project and the JPSPC will be directly responsible for
the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of the Special Account activities.
Supporting documents required for Bank disbursements will be prepared and submitted by the JPSPC to
the Bank for disbursement processing. Special account for the project will be in US dollar, with an
authorized allocation equivalent to about 4 months of eligible expenses reimbursable via special account.
XVI. Action Plan
32. The following proposed actions have no impact on project preparation and Board presentation, but
should be adequately addressed by the project prior to implementation:
* Obtain domestic clearance for opening Special Account
-92 -



* Open corresponding yuan bank account
XVII. Financial Covenants
33. In addition to the standard financial covenants, for example, maintaining project accounts in
accordance with sound accounting practices, audit requirements, and SOE, as described in the legal
document, specific financial covenants applicable to project "Entities" will be detailed in section G of
PAD.
XVIII. Supervision Plan
34. For the initial implementation stage, more frequent supervision missions (such as twice a year)
should be carried out to have better coverage and ensure that project accounts are properly set up,
procurement guidelines are followed, and expenditures incurred are eligible and well supported. More
detailed reviews at the initial implementation phase can also help ensure that financial management
system is functioning as intended and financial statements are prepared in line with stipulated format and
content. The mission frequency can then be subsequently reduced from mid point to the normal level
(once a year). Furthermore, to maximize effectiveness and efficiency, procurement and FM-disbursement
specialists should jointly participate in supervision missions for procurement and SOE ex post reviews.
-93-



Additional Annex 13: Land Acquisition and Resettlement]
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
1. This RAP for the Yixing Pumped Storage project has been prepared in accordance with the related
laws and regulations issued by the People's Republic of China and Jiangsu Provincial Government and to
comply with Bank OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement. The overall objective of the RAP is that project
affected people will benefit from the project, and improve or, at least, restore their living standard after
resettlement.
Resettlement Impacts
2. The proposed Yixing Pumped Storage Plant consists of the construction of up and lower reservoirs,
water supply, underground powerhouse, and switch station, and related transmission line. These
components will acquire limited amount of land area and cause certain amount of resettlement.
According to the census survey conducted by the project office, a total of 2,615 mu land area will be
acquired, including 25 mu cultivated land, 90 mu tea garden, and 2,500 mu wood or other land. In
addition, about 1,063 mu land area will be used temporarily during project construction, including 29 mu
cultivated land, 87 mu tea garden and 947 mu woodland or other land. The 6.3 km long 500 kV
transmission line to connect the plant to the main grid will occupy 2.4 mu land area with no demolition,
which includes 0.6 mu tea garden and 1.8 mu woodland.
Table A13-1. Scope of Land Acquisition for Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Type of Land      Total Land      Of which:       Tea Garden        Forest or
Acquisition      Areas (mu)     Cultivated land                     Other
Permanent       2615.53          25.24           89.6            2499.69
Temporary       1063.38          29.37           86.66           947.35
Total           3677.91          54.61           176.26           3447.04
Source: Yixing Pumped Storage Project.
3. Along with land acquisition, a total of 3,921 square meters of houses and various attachments, such
as enclosure walls, sunning ground, and pigsty, will be demolished, including 863 square meters of
concrete brick houses, 2,720 square meters of brick wood houses, and 338 square meters of simple
houses. The house demolition will directly affect 19 households and 43 individuals. All of them belong
to Nanyueshi Forest Farm. For land acquisition, it will directly affect 227 households and 506
individuals, which include those 19 households affected also by house demolition. Most of these land
acquisition and resettlement impacts are concentrated in two forest farms and three administrative
villages,
Table A13-2. Affected Individuals (Households) by Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Types of      Nanyuesi     Dahanjie    Meiyuan    Huangtang  Shanmen   Total
Impacts       State Forest  State Forest  Village  Village   Village
Farm         Farm
Affected by       43                                                      43
Relocation        (19)                                                    (19)
Affected by       43           28          336        72        27        506
Land Loss         (19)         (12)       (153)      (31)       (12)     (227)
Total         43 (19)     28 (12)       336(153)  72 (31)    27 (12)   506(227)
- 94 -



Source: Yixing Pumped Storage Project.
4. With relatively small land holding per capita among affected villages (0.69 to 1.0 mu), particularly
paddy land and tea garden, the reservoir inundation and project construction will have some negative
impacts on the economic production among the affected villages and state forest farms. To mitigate such
impacts, detailed and realistic economic rehabilitation measures have been developed in order to ensure
full restoration of income and livelihood of the project affected people.
Social Economic Condition of the Project Affected Area
5. The proposed project is located in Tongguan Mountain Region, about 7 km of southwest of Yixing
City, Jiangsu Province. The land acquisition and resettlement will mainly affect three villages and two
state forest farms. For two state forest farms, monthly wage accounts for the main source of income
among employees, plus additional income from managing economic trees and nurseries. For three
affected villages, because of to closeness to Yixing City, rural industries are well developed; and per
capita income is quite high, average Y 7,454, which was 70 percent higher than the Yixing City average
(Y 4,410). Among such income, more than 80-90 percent came from nonfarm activities, with industrial
income accounting for 54 to 87 percent. (Table A13-3).
Table A13-3. Basic Economic Characteristics of Affected Villages
Project     Number of  Per     Total     Per capita  Percent of  Percent    Per
Affected    Total      Capita  Gross     Gross      income      income      Capita
Village or  Population  farmland  Output  Output    from        from        Income
forest state          (mu)     (Mil.     (Yuan)      agriculture  industry  (yuan)
farms                           Yuan)
Meiyuan          1791   0.92       22.71    12,678.0    19.10%      70.47%   7,454
Huangtang         1612   1.01       48.7    30,263.1    10.03%      57.40%   7,454
Shanmen           1831  0.69        32.0    17,521.2    17.24%      44.26%  7,454
Nanyueshi           61               0.4     7,798.4    95.31%      n.a.     8,274
Dahanjie            52               0.2     3,796.2    96.05%      n.a.     8,274
Total            5347   0.87      104.24    17,908.3    14.78%      55.84%
- Not available
n.a. Not applicable.
Source: Resettlement Action Plans for Yixing Pumped Storage Project.
Legal Framework
6. The basic laws governing land acquisition are the "Land Administration Law" (1998), and the 1991
regulation concerning resettlement for large and medium hydroelectric and irrigation projects,
supplemented by provincial regulations including "Jiangsu Provincial Implementation Measure of Land
Administration Law" (1999).
7. In China, urban land is owned by the state and rural land is owned by village collectives. All land to
be acquired under the project is classified as rural. The state has the right to acquire rural land, and
compensation is payable by the state organ that acquires it for land, crops and attached properties.
Payment is also required for job rehabilitation also referred to as resettlement subsidy. Compensation is
also payable to individuals for housing and other improvements on the land.
8. Under the law, land compensation shall be in the range of 6 to 10 times average annual output value
per mu in the three years preceding land acquisition. Job compensation shall be in the range of 4 to 6
times average annual output per mu for each "affected person," which is a calculated number determined
by dividing area of acquired cultivated land by the existing ratio of per capita cultivated land for each
- 95 -



affected village. In the case of lower per capita cultivated land ratios, the job compensation multiplier
may be increased up to 15, and if proceeds of land and job compensation entitlements are still not
adequate to guarantee income restoration, the total land and job compensation multiplier could be
increased up to 30 times average annual output value.
9. Among various items making up total land compensation, only young crop compensation and
properties and improvements will be paid directly to individuals. The remainder is paid to the affected
villages, and is to be used for various economic rehabilitation measures, including land development,
provision of irrigation provision, nonfarm employment measures, and other income generating activities.
With the approval of village members, it could also be used for improving community facilities or
services, and to assist those who are too old to work. By law, each affected village is required to maintain
separate accounts on compensation funds. Financial reports must be provided annually to the next higher
level of government.
10. As noted above, for hydropower projects, resettlement is also required to comply with additional
sector specific policies, These regulations are being redrafted to conform with the new Land
Administration Law; however, the basic principles and contents remain valid. They include the
following:
(a) Resettlement with development. By emphasizing development of new production capacity
instead of cash compensation only, Chinese resettlement policy aims to provide PAPs a sustainable
production base to restore their livelihood at least to the previous level and ideally beyond.
(b) Compensation provided in the early stage of resettlement and rehabilitation assistance
provided after displacement. In general, up-front relocation and resettlement costs (including the
costs of new production facilities) is financed by compensation funds that are included in the project
budget, while additional rehabilitation assistance after the move comes from project revenues. The
rehabilitation assistance is provided for up to 10 years after displacement since new economic and
social systems may take long time to fully develop.
(c) Local governments have primary responsibility in implementation. Although the project
owner funds the resettlement program, county governments have primary responsibility for
implementation with provincial government providing overall leadership.
(d) Preferential policies. Local governments should support resettlement with preferential policies
and organize different government departments to support and facilitate resettlement implementation.
Compensation Standards
15. Based on the law and regulations, and investment needs to replace land and livelihood, a set of land
compensation standards have been adopted for Yixing Pumped Storage Project.
16. For cultivated land, the compensation consists of three parts: (1) land compensation; (2) job
compensation; and (3) green crop compensation. For land compensation, it is set at 8 times of average
annual output, which is set at Y1,200 per mu in Jiangsu. For acquired tea garden, orchard, and nursery
land, the land compensation is also set at 8 times of average annual output value. For job compensations,
based on different per capita cultivated land ratios, it is set between 5 to 9 times for these three villages.
For tea garden, orchard, and nursery, the job compensation is set at 70 percent of land compensation.
Table A13-4 provides a summary of land compensation rates for the proposed Project.
- 96 -



Table A13-4. Compensation Standards for Cultivated Land in Yixing Pumped Storage
Proiect                                   _
Items                 Average  Multiple  Multiple of  Average  Green Crop  Total Land
Number                Unit Yield  Land   Job        farmland per  Compensa-  Compensation (land,
(yuan/mu)  Compensati Compensa-  person in  tion    job and green crop)
on       tion       village     (yuan)     (yuan)
I Farmland
Meiyuan        1,200      8         6         0.97        600          17,400
Huangtang      1,200      8         5         1.01        600          21,000
Shannien       1,200      8         9         0.69        600          16,200
2 Tea
garden,
TeaGarden      1,200      8        5.6                    1134         17,454
Nursery        1,200      8        5.6    1          1    1833         1,8153
Source: Resettlement Action Plans for Yixing Pumped Storage Project.
17. For forest land, following the provincial regulation, the compensation will be set at 6 times for land
compensation, and job compensation will be set at 70 percent of land compensation. In addition,
compensation for cut down trees will be set at Y 1,008 per mu for pine trees, Y 2,016 per mu for spruce,
and Y 418 per mu for timber, 300 per mu for bamboo. The specific values for forest land will range from
Y 12,048 per mu for woodland to Y 14,256 per mu for spruce. For other uncultivated land and
unproductive land, it is set at 3 times annual agricultural output value (AAOV) or Y 3,600 per mu.
18. The compensation for temporary land occupation will be based on actual loss of yield for different
types of land areas. Assuming four years construction period, the actual compensation will be Y4,800 per
mu for cultivated land, Y4,536 per mu for tea garden, Y7,332 per mu for nursery, Y2,152 per mu for
chestnut trees, and Y672 to Y1,672 per mu for other forest land. The land reclamation cost will be set at
Y3,000 per mu.
Property Compensation
19. The property compensation consists of compensation for lost buildings, attached facilities, and
moving allowance. These standards are set based on replacement value of lost assets in the project area.
Items                        Unit          Compensation Rate (Yuan)
1. brick-concrete houses(m1)               300-360
2. brick -wood houses        (m 2)                260-310
3. simple structures        (m2)                   160
4. wall                      (m2)                  45
5. sunning ground            (m2)                  12
6. kitchen stove             piece                  150
7. moving allowance          hh                    500
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan
20.' The main objective for resettlement is to improve, or at least restore the livelihood of the project
affected people to their former standards, including their living condition, earning capacity, and income
levels. The basic resettlement strategy for project affected people under Yixing Pumped Storage Project
is to provide land based economic rehabilitation for those who need economic rehabilitation. Based on
analysis of current social economic condition of the affected people, a set of resettlement targets is
- 97 -



developed. The main target is to ensure basic farmland per person, so that self-consumption grain could
be guaranteed. This woild serve to improve overall agricultural income. Further income improvement
may be realized through improve crop diversification, agricultural sideline activities, and engaging in
nonfarm activities.
21. Based on three different types of impacts, the economic rehabilitation is divided into three parts. For
three land loss villages, the acquisition of 114.8 mu of cultivated land and tea garden and 282 mu forest
land will affect 13 village groups and 435 individuals. Among 13 village groups, cultivated land and tea
garden reduction will range from 0.7 percent to 23.8 percent with 3 village groups losing more than 10
percent. In order to mitigate such losses, the affected village groups will provide replacement farmland
and tea garden from village reserve together with the land compensation and resettlement subsidy.
Through these measures, not only the lost income from farmland and tea garden could be restored, but
also the additional compensation will provide funds to develop greenhouse vegetables and other nonfarm
incomes, so that their income could be further increased.
22. For the land loss belonging to two state forest farms, it will involve land acquisition of 1,626 mu of
forest land, including 143 mu of chestnut trees and 261 mu of nurseries. It will affect 71 individuals.
Since forest land loss will have little impact on wages, the main impact will come from loss of cash trees.
To mitigate such loss, after consultation with officials and employees from these two farms, it has been
decided to use part of compensation to develop 317 mu of new nursery, which will rehabilitate income of
affected individuals. A detail analysis shows the new nursery will generate Y474,000 of net income each
year for the two farms, leveling higher than the loss because of the land acquisition, which was estimated
at Y69,800 each year.
23. For the 19 households and 43 individuals who need physical relocation, a detailed rehabilitation plan
has been prepared following extensive consultation with the affected people. The new housing site is
located in Baibugang, about 650 meters from original location along the main highway. A total of 10 mu
land area is allocated for the new housing construction. A detailed site plan and new housing schemes
have been developed after consultation with affected people, and are included in the RAP. The new site
includes one office building and one apartment flat, with two housing types: one bedroom apartment and
two-bedroom apartment. They will be allocated to the 19 affected households. In principle, elderly
persons will be provided ground floor apartments and young persons will be provided with second and
third floor apartments.
Institutional Arrangements
24. The resettlement implementation responsibilities for the Yixing Pumped Storage Project are
entrusted to the provincial project office and Yixing City Government. In order to ensure successful
implementation, a Resettlement Leading Group (RLG) will be established, which includes the JPEPC,
Jiangsu Provincial Pumped Storage Power Generation Company, and Yixing City Government. Its main
responsibility is to strengthen the leadership of the project, formulate resettlement policies, facilitate the
resettlement implementation, and ensure coordination among government departments involved in the
process. Under the RLG, a Project Resettlement Office within the provincial project management office
will be set up. It will be responsible for coordinating resettlement planning and implementation activities
related to the project. Its main responsibilities include (a) during the planning phase, employment of a
consulting team to assist in inventory and social economic surveys and prepare the RAP; and (b) during
implementation, oversight of management and disbursement of resettlement budget, coordination and
supervision of resettlement implementation, internal monitoring of resettlement; and assistance in the
external monitoring and evaluation.
25. Resettlement implementation will be carried out by Yixing City Government. A resettlement leading
group has been set up in Yixing City, which is chaired by a deputy governor. Members include
responsible officials from relevant city departments, such as city electric power company, land
- 98 -



administration bureau, labor bureau, and public security bureau. Its main responsibilities include
identifying resettlement and rehabilitation options; formulating resettlement preferential policies,
supervising resettlement implementation and coordinating among different agencies. Under the City
Resettlement Leading Group, a city resettlemeni office has been set up within the Yixing City
Government, with staff coming from relevant city departments.
26. The City Resettlement Office is responsible for assisting in site survey, keeping records, organizing
consultation and community participation, developing and implementing the RAP, managing and
allocating the resettlement funds, training resettlement staff at city and township levels, signing
compensation agreements with relevant townships or state forest farmrs, channeling of grievances of the
resettlers to concerned authorities. In each affected township, a resettlement working team has also been
established, which will work closely with the Yixing City Resettlement Office for carrying out
resettlement implementation for the Yixing Pumped Storage Project.
27. Based on the compensation standards set up in the RAP, the project office will sign project land
acquisition and resettlement agreements with the Yixing City Land Administration Bureau, which will in
turn sign compensation agreements for land, buildings and attachments with concerned townships and
state farms. The townships and state farms will sign compensation agreements on land acquisition and
building demolition with affected households. The, delivery of land compensation funds will go from the
project resettlement office, through concerned township or state farms resettlement offices to affected
villages and village groups. Compensation associated with land attachments (such as standing crops) will
be delivered from villages to affected individuals. The compensation funds for lost buildings and
attachments will be paid directly from the project resettlement offices to the affected individuals through
state farms. The funds for reconstruction of infrastructure facilities will be allocated from the project
office to the concerned local governments or special departments. To ensure that resettlement funds will
be used effectively and exclusively, the different levels of governments will carry out auditing on the use
of resettlement funds each year.
Consultation, Public Disclosure, and Grievance Procedures
28. In the planning stage, extensive consultation and community participation have been organized by
the project resettlement office in the project affected area. For example, based on the discussion with the
affected individuals, two new housing sites were identified for Nanyueshi Branch Farm. After further
consultation with affected people, a new housing site has been selected. For those affected by land losses,
based on extensive consultation among affected villages, two basic economic rehabilitation options have
been identified. One is based on land readjustment within the administrative village by reallocating
village reserve land; the other is based on readjustment within each affected village group and provision
of local compensation to the affected village group to be used for various income generation activities.
29. Consultation and participation will continue throughout the implementation phase in areas such as
ensuring fairness in allocating new housing, and transparency of delivery and use of compensation funds.
Land compensation will be delivered to affected village groups to be used for various economic
rehabilitation activities according to the RAP. All members of village groups will be informed about the
usage of provided funds and associated economic rehabilitation measures. The village groups will make
collective decision on how to use any unused funds.
30: Disclosure. Efforts will be made by the Project Resettlement Office and City Resettlement Office to
disclose the content of RAP, and inform affected people about resettlement impacts, compensation
policies, and rehabilitation options. The disclosure will be implemented prior to resettlement
implementation, which include distribution of resettlement information booklet to all affected
households, and advertisement of resettlement implementation details to the public through TV,
broadcast, and local newspapers in order to facilitate the resettlement implementation. In addition, the
99 -



RAP document will be put in city library for the public to review.
31. Grievance Processes. A grievance procedure has been set up for the proposed Project. If any PAP is
not satisfied with the compensation amount or proposed rehabilitation measures, he or she should first
complain to the administrative village or resettlement team in the concemed township. The village or
township should document the complaint and resolve the matter within two weeks. If the affected person
is dissatisfied with the decision, he can elevate his complaint to the city project resettlement office,
which will respond within two weeks. If the PAP is dissatisfied with the resolution of the Project
Resettlement Office, he can appeal the case to the city civil court. No fees should be collected from PAPs
by agencies accepting complaints. The PAP will be informed about these procedures through meetings,
information booklet and public notice.
Resettlement Cost and Implementation Schedule
32. Based on the RAP, the overall resettlement budget for Yixing Pumped Storage Project will amount to
Y 66.1 million. The resettlement cost estimate is included in the project budget and will be bome by the
owner. The cost estimate includes 5 percent for administration, resettlement supervision, and monitoring
and evaluation; and 5 percent for physical contingency. The resettlement budget includes a quite large
portion of permanent land acquisition (Y 55.1 million), accounting for 83.3 percent, and Y 10.9 million
for temporary land occupation, accounting for 16.6 percent.
33. The resettlement implementation schedule is closely related with construction progress, which is
scheduled to be completed prior to project construction or March 2003. To achieve this objective, the
process of signing compensation contracts, delivering land compensation, redistributing and developing
new farmland will start in 2002. The process of developing new farmland and redistributing farmland
will continue through 2003. The housing site selection and acquisition will also begin in 2002. The site
preparation, delivery of housing compensation in terms of housing reconstruction, and construction of
new houses will be carried out in 2002 and 2003. All relocation and new farmland development or
redistribution will be completed in 2003.
Monitoring and Evaluation
34. Both intemal monitoring and extemal monitoring will be employed during implementation. Intemal
monitoring will be in carried out by Yixing City Resettlement Office under the supervision by the Project
Resettlement Office. Township and village resettlement working teams will participate in the internal
monitoring efforts. The main purpose of intemal monitoring is to ensure that agreed RAP is implemented
in a timely and cost-effective manner and the interests of resettlers are protected. The monitoring will
cover all aspects of resettlement operation, including delivery of compensation funds, allocation of
housing plots, land development, and infrastructure construction irrigation. Once the resettlement
implementation begins, a progress report will be submitted every 3 months from the village and township
resettlement teams to Yixing City Resettlement Office, and to the Project Resettlement Office. Such
information will be incorporated into project progress report to the World Bank.
35. An independent agency will also be employed to regularly monitor the resettlement implementation
and to evaluate whether the overall resettlement objectives are being achieved. The independent
monitoring will provide opinion as to whether income restoration is on track, suggestions for
implementation improvement, an early warning system for the project management, and channels for
transmitting comments and opinions of PAPs. Procedures employed will combine sample survey and
rapid appraisal, and detail monitoring of implementation progress and evaluation of income changes
among PAPs. Main indicators will relate to (1) physical progress; (2) quality of facilities; (3) delivery of
resettlement funds; (4) economic conditions before and after resettlement; (5) living environment before
and after resettlement; (6) employment conditions before and after resettlement; and (7) resettlers'
- 100 -



satisfaction. The ECIDI has been selected to undertake the external resettlement monitoring and
evaluation for the Project. The external resettlement monitoring and evaluation survey will be carried out
in the end of every year once the resettlement implementation begins; and will submit a resettlement
monitoring and evaluation report to the project owner and the World Bank by the end of February the
following year. The resettlement monitoring and evaluation work will proceed at least five times between
2002 and 2005.
- 101 -



Additional Annex 14: Energy Sector Issues and Bank Strategy
CHINA: Yixing Pumped Storage Project
Background
China faces two major transitions: from a command economy to a market economy and from a rural,
agricultural economy to an urban society. The Bank's strategy for assisting China in these transitions
focuses on development of the institutional framework to support a market economy; facilitating the
rural-urban transition through development of environmentally sustainable infrastructure; and addressing
the needs of disadvantaged peoples and regions.
The Bank's energy sector strategy contributes to these three objectives focusing on transitioning the state
owned energy sector to a diversely owned market-based system; conversion to clean fuels and increasing
energy efficiency; and raising incomes in poorer western areas by assisting them to develop and export
their energy resources. The current status, major issues and Bank strategy in addressing these issues
(with particular reference to the power subsector) are outlined in the following paragraphs.
Transitioning the Energy Sector
The Power Subsector
Background: Until the early 1980s, China's power systems were entirely government owned. For the
most part, power was provided through a centralized government department with operating units at the
province, prefecture (or municipality) and county levels. However, because not all rural areas were
connected to main grids, local systems also grew up at county level and even at local government levels
(township and village). Except for local government systems, investments were centrally decided and
financed through budget allocations. Prices were centrally controlled and covered only a small portion of
supply costs. Private ownership of power assets was illegal. Power shortages were endemic.
Since 1980 there have been very great changes. The sector is now largely corporatized and its ownership
is diverse, budget allocations have been phased out, subsidies eliminated and electricity prices are on
average in line with or above marginal supply costs in most grids. This has enabled the sector to grow
dramatically with installed capacity and generation quadrupling to more than 300 GW and about 1,250
TWh, such that China's power sector is by now the second largest in the world, and practically
alleviating the acute power shortage experienced in the late 1980s and most of the 1990s.
The current power sector structure still reflects its history, but it has become much more horizontally
integrated. Isolated systems have been largely interconnected into provincial grids with about 96 percent
of all generation capacity so connected. These grids have in turn become increasingly integrated such
that at present six multiprovincial grids and four large independent provincial grids have implemented
hierarchical dispatch at central, regional, provincial, municipality and county levels. The provincial
power companies, which form the core of the current system, have been fully corporatized and are
subsidiaries of the SP. They operate the main transmission grids and act as single buyers in the purchase
of power from generators and its sale to distributors.
Ownership of generation is greatly varied. This trend began with the policies of the mid 1980s, whereby
government began curtailing budget allocations for power investments, instead providing debt through
policy and commercial banks and encouraging nonutility investment in generation through the "new
power new price" policy. In parallel, corporatization of generation assets at various levels of government
resulted in increased diversity such that, in a single province, generation companies controlled by various
(financially autonomous) levels of government might run into the hundreds. Although a large proportion
of generation is still owned by various organs of government, most new generation can be categorized as
nonutility, and neither government budget financing nor directed credit is involved. Moreover, private
-102-



investment accounts for a significant share of new capacity. This was piloted in the late 1980s, legalized
in the 1996 Electricity Law, and currently some 40 independent power producers have 28 GW of
installed capacity, while 37 companies listed on domestic and foreign stock exchanges account for an
additional 25 GW.
The situation with respect to distribution is complex, and the following description should be considered
as typical rather than general. In urban areas, power is generally delivered directly to consumers by the
provincial power companies, typically though operating units at the municipal level. In rural areas, until
recently, power was provided at wholesale (network) prices to county level distributors who were
responsible for distribution through their own grids. County power companies were either subsidiaries
(or operating units) of the provincial power companies or independent entities owned by county
governments. County distributors would in some cases deliver power directly to consumers but in other
cases would simply deliver it to township or village "gates" where its distribution would be arranged
locally. In contrast to transmission and provincial power company managed distribution, that has become
increasingly efficient, local distribution was often very inefficient and costly. In 1998, as part of an
economic stimulus package in the wake of the East Asia economic crisis, the government began to
onlend the proceeds of billions of dollars of government bonds during a three-year period to the
provincial power companies to upgrade local networks. As part of this program the provincial power
companies took over management of county power companies and invested in them to provide funds for
the upgrading work.
In parallel, with the corporatization of the sector there have been some advances in regulation, but these
have been less impressive. At the national level, with the transformation of the Ministry of Electric
Power to the SP in 1997, its government functions were transferred to the SETC. However, investment
approval and pricing responsibility largely remained with the SDPC. Similar separations have occurred at
the provincial level, but with the degree of separation varying greatly among provinces.
Main Sector Issues. Despite the impressive gains of the last two decades, the single buyer structure has
showed strains in recent years. Some provincial power companies have abused the single buyer dual
monopsony and monopoly power by breaching power purchase contracts (notably during the 1998-99
slowdown in power demand growth), and engaged in discriminatory dispatch favoring their own power.
In addition, the generally self-contained provincial power systems, which were appropriate in an era of
shortages, are less appropriate with balanced supply and demand and as increasing system size and
economies of scale favor larger energy transfers across provincial boundaries, whether from hydropower
plants in the southwest, gas (by pipeline) from the far west or from large LNG plants on the coast. The
main issues can be summarized as the following:
(a) Impediments to Raising Financing for Certain Types of Generation Projects (The Private
Sector and Power Generation in China-World Bank Discussion Paper No. 406): During a period of
15 years, the government has been remarkably successfully in transforming the financing
mechanisms in the power sector from a situation where the government was the main firiancier to one
where fiscal flows from the sector provide a substantial contribution to government revenues.
Remarkable progress has been achieved in diversifying financing sources through involvement of
private investors in developing thermal generation projects and listing of power generation projects
in local and international stock markets. However, private financing in emerging markets dropped
dramatically during the last few years, especially in Asia. Particularly, financing difficulties remain
for certain types of generation where nonutility investors are hesitant to enter, such as hydropower,
other renewable, and pumped storage. The impediments to raising capital for these types of projects
are as follows:
(i) Insufficient capital market instruments and development to channel domestic savings
into long gestation projects and those with very long asset lives. In hydro the risk allocation
- 103 -



models do not support private investment.
(ii) The wholesale pricing systems are biased toward base load generation and do not reflect
the true value of the peaking capacity to the system.
(iii)The environmental externality of fossil generation is not accounted for in pricing that
undermines the competitiveness of environmentally benign generation.
(b) Lack of Incentive for Increasing Investment and Operation Efficiency (Fostering
Competition in China's Power Markets-World Bank Discussion Paper No. 416; Modernizing
China's Oil and Gas Sector-World Bank and SCORES Joint Report): The generation sector was
opened to multiple investments (both public and private) during a period of acute power shortage.
Cost-plus pricing policies allowing rapid debt paybacks were designed to lure investors. There is
neither competition for entry into the market nor competition for dispatch within the market. In the
oil and gas sector, upstream exploration and production is not subject to any competitive pressure.
Downstream gas distribution is not properly regulated. Little effort has been made to cut investment
and operating costs and improve efficiency.
(c) A Flawed Industry Structure (Fostering Competition in China's Power Markets; Zhejiang
Power Market Review-World Bank Working Paper; Modernizing China's Oil and Gas Sector): In
the Power subsector, provincial power companies owning part of the generating capacity have
engaged in discriminatory dispatch, favoring their own plants over more efficient plants owned by
independent power producers. In few cases, power companies have breached power purchase
contracts, particularly when electricity growth slowed, indicating an abuse of the monopsony power.
In the oil and gas subsector, the geographical division of exploration areas through three major
Chinese companies is restricting competition in the sector. The mineral licenses are not awarded
through bidding process. The decision whether to cooperate with foreign partners rests solely with
the Chinese companies. Competition in refining and wholesale operations is limited to the China
National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and the China Oil and Petrochemical Company (SINOPEC)
and retail activities are not fully open to competition.
(d) Transmission and Distribution Bottleneck: Transmission and distribution infrastructure in
China has not been adequately developed to allow for efficient system development and supply cost
minimization. Plants are not always located in regions where the overall system cost is minimized.
Some of the large plants, constructed in areas close to load centers that require the transport of large
quantities of coal on an overextended transport system, were not economically justified. The
transmission bottlenecks continue to contribute to investment inefficiencies (lost economies of
scale), location inefficiencies (overburdening of the railway system), environmental inefficiencies
(heavy pollution burden on densely populated areas with limited local absorption capacity), and
operational inefficiencies (uneconomic dispatch, higher losses).
(e) Inadequate Wholesale Electricity Pricing System (China: Power Sector Regulation in a
Socialist Market Economy-World Bank Discussion Paper No. 361): A significant shortcoming of
the current power pricing system relates to the pricing of wholesale or bulk capacity and energy sales
or purchases from generating plants. These inadequacies of wholesale electricity pricing are partially
responsible for the inefficient utilization and dispatch of generating capacity. Inefficient resource use
stems from operation of old and/or small, inefficient plants that consume more coal in lieu of
modem, more efficient plants. The wholesale pricing mechanism is biased against peaking capacity,
resulting in the inappropriate generation mix in many systems.
(f) Inadequate Network Pricing System (Zhejiang Power Market Review; Gas Price
Formation-World Bank Report): In the power subsector, transmission is not adequately recognized
as a separate service that needs to be separately accounted for in electricity tariffs. The
- 104 -



nonrecognition of the importance of transmission service is reflected in the inability, until recently,
of utilities to include costs related to transmission in sales tariffs and to secure adequate investments
for the transmission infrastructure. This is also impeding the separation of generation from
transmission and is a major barrier to the implementation of competitive power markets. In the gas
subsector, no guideline or methodology yet exists to govern the price determination of transmission
and distribution services. Transmission service is bundled with gas production. Distribution price is
tightly controlled by local governments and determined fairly arbitrarily.
(g) Inappropriate Tariff Structures at the Consumer Level (China: Power Sector Regulation in a
Socialist Market Economy): The "new power new price" policy introduced during the early 1980s
has had the desirable effect of raising overall tariffs to levels approaching (and in some areas
exceeding) long run marginal cost. But the one-part tariff structure with levels based on consumer
categories rather than on voltage levels and the cost of supply creates a major disincentives for
economic dispatch at the generation level and for optimal use of electricity at the consumption level.
(h) Excessive Reliance on Coal and Load Following Problems: China's heavy reliance on coal
(especially for power generation) is expected to continue during the next two to three decades. Total
installed capacity in 2000 amounted to 316 GW, 75 percent of which was thermal capacity and the
rest hydropower (24 percent) and nuclear power (1 percent). The existing generation capacity is
overweighted toward base load plant particularly in coastal provinces where untapped hydropower
resources are dwindling. A large proportion of generating capacity is small power plants that are
often coal-fired with no load following capability. This entails inefficient operation of the system
since the most modem and efficient plants are assigned load following function and small inefficient
plants are used as base load or marked at their minimum output. This limited flexibility of the
dispatch hinders the optimal use of existing capacity and affects bidding strategies in the case of
competitive markets.
(i) Inefficient distribution segment: In the power subsector, the generation segment has largely
been commercialized and corporatized, but the distribution segment remains run as departments of
the provincial power companies or local governments. Many of the small rural distribution
companies run by local governments are characterized by overstaffing, huge losses, low efficiency
and low reliability. Customer services are nearly nonexistent. In the gas sector, municipal gas entities
are still run as semigovemmental departments.
(j) A fragmented, outdated and pervasive regulatory system (China: Power Sector Regulation in
a Socialist Market Economy; China: Economic Regulation of Long Distance Gas Transmission urban
Gas Distribution-World Bank and SCORES Joint Report): There is no proper regulatory framework
for the sector. Government role and its "old-style" regulation have not changed in a manner
consistent with creating a fully commercial and competitive energy sector. The regulatory functions
and responsibilities for the energy sector are dispersed in many competing agencies at the central and
local levels. These agencies are seriously understaffed and budgeted.
Government restructuring strategy. Recognizing these problems, the government has initiated
comprehensive reform to introduce and expand competition, starting with generation in the short term
(over two years), extension to the wholesale level in the medium term (2-5 years) and to the retail level
in the long term (5-10 years). As initial steps, the government mandated the separation of generation
from transmission and distribution, selected six provinces to test competitive generation markets and
started to revise the Electricity Law to provide a stronger legal basis for reform. This was followed in late
2000 by a government mandate to the SDPC to investigate in detail the future direction of power sector
reform. the SDPC's recommendations, which have been recently substantively adopted by State Council,
include the following measures:
- 105 -



Govermment Reform Objectives. Break up monopolies and introduce competition to improve efficiency
and reduce cost while optimizing resource allocation and promoting power development, through
acceleration of grid integration and development of a fair, orderly and healthy power market system
under appropriate government regulation.
Restructure State-Owned Assets in Power Sector. Principles for this restructuring are as follows:
*Separate generation and network business at all administrative levels.
*Restructure SP-owned generation assets into three or four independent generation enterprises each
with an installed capacity of about 40GW. In principle, the capacity share of a generation company
in a power market should not exceed 20 percent.
*Establish a national state-owned grid company and six regional grid companies; the latter will be
formed as limited liability or shareholding companies with ownership shares of central and local
governments based on existing asset value; restructure provincial grid companies into branch or
subsidiary companies of the regional companies responsible for power transmission and
distribution locally.
*The national grid company will construct and operate of inter-regional connections and coordinate
operations and power trading among regional grids
*The regional grid companies will plan, develop and operate regional grids and develop regional
power markets.
*The grid companies may retain both transmission and distribution business during the 10th plan
period, but should achieve accounting separation. In case of multiple asset ownership within a
county, limited liability or shareholding companies should be established based on net assets
owned by each party. Distribution enterprises without SP assets may remain unchanged.
*Noncore and service businesses owned by the SP should be separated, commercialized and, where
appropriate, corporatized. Medical and education facilities should be transferred to local
governments.
*After restructuring, the generation and grid enterprises may obtain funds through the capital
markets; proceeds from the sale of state assets should be earmarked for power construction,
environmental improvements and recovery of any stranded costs resulting from power sector
reform.
* The issue of fiscal revenue redistribution between the central government and the local
governments resulting from power sector reform will be addressed by the MOF.
Bid for Dispatch and New Pricing Mechanisms. The following principles will apply:
*Power trading centers will be established and generators will bid for dispatch. Within the
jurisdiction of each regional grid company, one or more dispatch centers will be established
depending on local conditions, all managed by the regional grid companies with free trading
between dispatch centers.
*Power purchase agreements signed between generators and grid companies should be gradually
terminated; for power plants with direct foreign investment, power purchase agreements could be
renegotiated or continued.
*The issue of price difference relating to different historical costs should be managed by asset
restructuring or merging and acquisition to form independent power plants with revalued assets
- 106 -



able to compete fairly in the new market environment; a transitional approach with limited
competition may be required; the detailed procedure for introduction of competition may be
developed by each power dispatch and trading center.
. Environmental emission pricing standards are to be implemented along with the introduction of
bidding for dispatch. In order to support the development of clean energy, preferential policies
should be developed for newly commissioned hydropower and wind power projects; VAT should
not exceed 8 percent and detailed methods will be developed by the MOF.
. The precise timetable to introduce competition should be determined by the structure of the local
industry, local management capability and adequacy of the technical support system. Regions with
the needed conditions should establish trading centers and introduce bidding for dispatch as early
as possible.
. A rational wholesale power pricing mechanism shall be developed. The electricity prices will be
divided into generation, transmission, distribution price and consumer supply. The generation price
will consist of a government determined fixed capacity price and competitive-market determined
energy price. The government will determine the principles of transmission pricing and distribution
pricing. The consumer price will be made up of the above prices and will fluctuate with generation
price. The government will regulate and monitor the prices of each segment according to the
principles of efficiency, incentive mechanisms, taking into consideration the need to attract
investment and the absorption capability of society.
. In areas where conditions permit, direct electricity supply of generators to large energy consumers
and distributors should be piloted. The generation price will be negotiated between the parties; the
government will determine the transmission price.
State Power Regulatory Agency. A power regulatory agency has been established under the State
Council. It will perform the regulatory duties and functions authorized by the State Council. The
institutional framework of the regulatory agency will follow a vertical approach. The regulatory agency
will have branch offices in areas with regional power grid companies and trading centers. The principle
duties of the state regulatory agency include development of power market rules and monitoring of
market operations, ensuring fair competition, recommending price adjustment to the government,
supervising the service quality of the power enterprises, issuing and supervising licenses, resolving
market disputes and monitor the implementation of public access.
Staged Power Sector Reform. Highest priority should be given to the establishment of the state
regulatory agency. The national grid company, regional grid companies and power generation companies
should be established within about one year. Each regional grid company should start to deploy the
necessary technical support systems for bidding and to implement monitoring facilities for environmental
compliance. By the end of the 10th FYP period, all the main generation companies in each region should
participate in the bid for dispatch. A new power pricing mechanism will be implemented nationally.
After completion of the above reform, separation of transmission from distribution should be gradually
piloted and implemented and retail competition introduced.
The goal of proceeding to retail competition, over a single decade, to a power sector as large and diverse
as! that existing in China, while at the same time ensuring at least 200 GW growth in capacity, is
ambitious. However, this has been facilitated by the clear statement of the principles and timing now
established by government. Clearly, the challenge now is clearly, to implement this strategy in
accordance with principles laid down, without dilution that could occur through the influence of vested
interests.
- 107 -



Bank Strategy in Restructuring the Power Sector. Bank strategy has focused on the promotion of
policy reform at the central government level while piloting of implementation at the lower levels using
appropriate investment vehicles.
With regard to policy reform, the Bank has been the primary player in assisting the government in
overhauling its power sector policies virtually since the commencement of the reform process. This
assistance intensified in 1993 when the Bank worked with the government to carry out a study strategic
Options for Power Sector Reform in China that provided the basis for the Ministry of Electric Power
strategy of corporatized restructuring, commercialized operation and legalized regulation. This was
followed by a 1996 study Power Sector Regulation in a Socialist Market Economy that recommended
staged implementation of regulatory reform during the period 1996-2005. With awakening of
government interest in competitive markets, further studies during the 1999-2000 period culminated in
the publication of Fostering Competition in China's Power Markets, and when the SDPC was entrusted
by the State Council to further explore competitive market options, the Bank, in October 2000, organized
a workshop New Waves of Power Sector Reform in China and published the proceedings in English and
Chinese. These discussions provided important inputs to the SDPC's recommended power sector reform
plan, which have been substantially adopted in April 2002 by the State Council.
The new government policy states the objectives of the reform, provides significant policy guidance to
the industry in respect of the version for the future, and sets the priority actions to be implemented before
the end of the 10th Five Year Plan. However, by its nature, it leaves the implementation details to the
concerned agencies. The Bank's current and future assistance will be to address the critical issues that
are prerequisites to sound implementation of the new government policy. A new study, supported by
PPLAF, has been launched to assist the SDPC and SP to devise a generation separation and divestiture
strategy. An US$800,000 technical assistance (TA) loan to the borrower will assist the government to
carry out preparatory. work required to the creation of a National Regulatory Agency and build up
regulatory capabilities.
The policy development at the central government level has been accompanied by piloted
implementation of reforms at the provincial level, with implementation experience feeding back into new
policy development. For example, the recent power market dialogue has drawn on studies and pilot
implementation associated with the Tongbai Pumped Storage Project and the East China (Jiangsu)
Transmission Project. The Tongbai project also includes transmission pricing, distribution pricing,
generation planning and consumer pricing studies, the results of which will feed into government policy
development. The proposed project will focus on studies, analyses and pilot programs that would
contribute to detailed decisions at the central level and ensure efficient and rapid implementation of the
new policy at the regional-provincial level.
In choosing appropriate projects to pilot and implement reforms, choice of an appropriate counterpart is
essential. For overall sector restructuring and introduction of competition, the appropriate counterparts
are reform minded provincial power companies with well-developed institutional capacity. However, for
reforms of lower levels of generation that are not state-owned, county level generation companies are
more appropriate counterparts.
The choice of investment vehicles has taken into account increasing availability of capital for mainstream
generation, and also the infrastructure constraints to market development. Projects that remove
transmission bottlenecks and pumped storage projects that correct system imbalances toward base load
plant fall into this category. In addition, both require foreign exchange and are not attractive to private
investors. County developed hydropower is also appropriate, because of the inability of the county level
companies to attract local debt finance because of the factors described above.
- 108 -



The oil and gas subsector
Background. The organization of the oil and gas sector in China has been in a state of continuous
change, especially during the last two decades. In 1988, the Ministry of Planning and Industry (MOPI)
was dissolved and the CNPC was created to exercise the MOPI's former operational roles. A new
Ministry of Energy (MOE) took over the MOPI's former administrative responsibilities and policy
functions.
Starting in 1998, the government initiated another major change in the sector structure and corporate
governance of the state companies operating in the sector: (a) restructuring the state oil and gas assets to
transform the CNPC and SINOPEC into two vertically integrated competing companies; (b) separating
the core business of the CNPC and SINOPEC from noncore businesses and social services and
transferring the core services to newly incorporated entities, Petro China Company Ltd. and China
Petroleum and Chemical Corporation Ltd.; and finally, (c) making IPOs for PetroChina Ltd., China
Petroleum and Chemical Corporation Ltd. and China National Offshore Oil Company (CNOOC). The
listing process will encourage efficiencies by clearly separating core business from noncore and social
activities and ensuring that management concentrate on core businesses and profit maximization.
Significant steps have been taken to gradually bring oil and gas prices up to market levels. Domestic
crude oil and products are now linked to international prices, and gas prices have been increased to levels
close to and, sometimes, above long-term marginal costs.
However, the existing piecemeal and administered approach to reform, based in part on "mimic" the
market system, has probably reached its limits. The sector still faces serious problems and major
obstacles exist to sector restructuring and regulatory change.
Major sector issues. Impediments to more private investment, increased production to meet demand, and
genuine competition to improve efficiency include the following:
Upstream, the geographical division of exploration areas through three major Chinese companies is
restricting the competition between Chinese companies operating in the sector. The administration of
exploration licenses is deficient in promoting competition. Restrictions on PSC partners' ability to
engage in oil and gas trading contribute to reducing the interest of potential entrants.
Downstream, competition in refining and wholesale operations is limited to the CNPC and SINOPEC,
retail activities are not fully open to competition, and there are government controls on crude oil and oil
products import, export, and pricing.
Regulatory obstacles exist, such as the wide diffusion and overlap of responsibilities, and regulation of
some important areas is not in place. Some important regulatory functions of SOEs have not been
transferred to the relevant government agencies.
The current oil and gas legal framework is deficient. There is no comprehensive oil and gas law; no
proper regulatory framework for the sector; authority therefore tends to be provided by regulations rather
than by laws; and there are cases of important gaps, as well as overlaps, in government responsibilities
for the sector.
Government strategy. The government intends to embark on a comprehensive restructuring to gradually
open the sector to market forces and, in parallel, to create a comprehensive modern regulatory framework
for oil and gas.
Reform will be guided by principles that include the following: (i) making optimal use of China's
petroleum resources; (ii) fully separating government and enterprise functions; (iii) brining competitive
pressures to bear on all sector participants to improve efficiency; (iv) attracting foreign investment; (v)
developing modem regulation; and (vi) providing a comprehensive national legal framework for the
- 109 -



sector.
The objectives of reform are (i) increased exploration and development upstream and greater industry
efficiency downstream through increasing openness and fostering competition; (ii) increased gas
penetration to raise the share of natural gas to 6-8 percent by 2010; and the creation of a modern
regulatory framework consistent with a market-based petroleum industry.
Bank strategy. In the mid 1990s, the Bank supported a major government study to develop detailed,
practical recommendations on restructuring the major oil enterprises to improve operational efficiency
and financial viability. The study provided the basis for restructuring of the two major national
companies into two large, competing entities in 1998 and their listing in 2000. Since 1999, the Bank has
been cooperating closely with SCORES to develop strategy and implementation plan to further reform
the sector structure to increase openness to attract more private investment and bring competitive
pressures to bear on all sector participants to improve efficiency, develop a comprehensive legal and
regulatory framework responding to high international standards. The major recommendations are
published in the joint reports "Modernizing China's Oil and Gas Sector: Structure Reform and
Regulation" and China: Economic regulation of Long Distance Gas Transmission and Urban Gas
Distribution.
Conversion to Clean Fuels and Energy Efficiency
Clean Fuels
China's power sector has long been dominated by coal-fired generation with concomitant large emissions
of SO2, NO., particulates, and greenhouse gases (GHGs) with consequent adverse impacts on health,
agricultural production, and global warming. Until recently, this was exacerbated by government policies
that, in the interests of self-sufficiency, banned oil or gas based generation. The government is committed
to reducing negative environmental impacts of coal-fired generation and during recent years has (a)
stepped up the development of large scale hydropower; (b) mandated the retirement of about 10 GW of
small, inefficient and polluting, coal-fired units by 2000; (c) used SO2 emission taxes, increased
requirements for flue gas desulfurization on new power plants; increased development and use of cleaner
combustion technologies such as AFBC, PFBC, IGCC and supercritical PC; and (e) planned increased
usage of natural gas by facilitating its transfer by pipeline from the far west, development of offshore
reserves and import of LNG to coastal centers. In the 10th FYP, extending from 2001 to 2005, the energy
sector objective is to change the structure of energy supply by shifting away from coal, developing clean
energy sources and increasing efficiency. For the first time, GHG emissions and climate change issues
were addressed in the plan. The use of natural gas is expected to increase from the current 2 percent to
6-8 percent in the year 201. The proportion of hydropower will be increased from the current 24 percent
to 30 percent in year 2015.
In addition to large hydropower development, the government also wishes to accelerate the development
of small hydropower and nontraditional renewable energy sources (collectively referred to hereafter as
"renewables"). A component of the 10th FYP is a plan to increase the share of renewables through the
use of a "mandated market share" (MMS) policy and supporting measures such as tax incentives.
Impediments to such development include the following:
High Unit Energy Costs. On a financial basis, a large proportion of renewable energy potential is
uncompetitive with thermal generation for on-grid applications, unless mechanisms can be found to
internalize environmental externalities; this becomes more urgent with the development of competitive
markets. The MMS policy, that will address this issue, will be piloted during the 10th FYP period.
High Transaction Costs. Small capacities associated with renewable projects result in high unit
transaction costs making them unattractive for developers and financiers. Transaction costs are especially
- 110-



high in China because of the lack of transparency in approval and pricing processes, and the lack of any
requirement that power companies purchase power from small independent producers.
Weakness of Potential Developers. Counties and local governments are very interested in developing
their small hydropower resources because of the effect on economic development and fiscal revenues.
However the local generation companies lack institutional and financial capacity and creditworthiness, as
referred to earlier.
Mismatch Between Debt Maturities and Asset Life. This is particularly stringent for hydropower where
new SDPC tariff policies assume loan maturity approaching asset life (18-25 years) whereas maturities
available from commercial banks are typically only 10 years including construction.
Cost-Based Pricing Formula with Low Allowable Returns on Equity. This provides no incentive for
development of even the most economical resources, particularly in view of other barriers to
development.
Weak Manufacturing and Service Industries. Despite the large installed capacity of small hydropower
(>20 GW), this is based on outdated technology and inefficient operational and management practices.
For other renewables, such as wind power, commercial capacity is still in initial stages of development.
These impediments will be the target of government policies currently being developed under the
Bank/GEF CRESP.
Energy Efficiency
Although energy consumption in China has increased at a rate of only about one-half as fast as overall
economic growth during the last two decades, energy use in many applications remains far less efficient
than in more developed industrial economies. In industry unit energy consumption in most standard
industrial processes still remains some 20-100 percent higher than in advanced levels abroad. Residential
buildings in China are estimated to consume 50-100 percent more energy for space heating as compared
to buildings in similar cold climates in Western Europe or North America, and still provide far less
comfort. From a macroeconomic viewpoint, investments to improve energy efficiency still remain by far
the least-cost means to increase energy services, and the potential for such cost-effective investments
remains huge.
To some extent, China's current inefficiency in energy use results from the large energy consumption
equipment and process stock developed under the previous economic framework of the planned industrial
economy and the previous energy pricing regime whereby energy was priced below production cost.
With energy price reform during the 1990s and the shift to a market economy, the economic framework
of most enterprises is now far more conducive to improving energy efficiency than previously. China's
entry into the WTO also is increasing competitive pressure on Chinese enterprise to reduce costs and
improve efficiency. However, as shown in market economies across the world, development of an
effective market 'framework and removal of energy price subsidies alone will not by itself promise
sufficient investment in financially and economically attractive energy efficiency measures additional
market-based initiatives and regulatory efforts are required. Classic energy conservation investment
project in industrial or commercial establishments in China typically range from US$50,000 to US$1
million, with financial rates of return of 20-40 percent per year. Yet most of this investment potential
remains untouched. The reasons for this paradox, also found in other countries, include the following:
Inadequate information. Enterprises and individuals generally lack information about energy-saving
investments, especially on financial aspects and the implementation experiences of others. Information of
new and emerging technologies and project concepts is particularly difficult for many to obtain.
Real or perceived insignificance of small projects. Many worthwhile energy conservation investments
- 111 -



are relatively small (although the high number of such projects in many enterprises makes aggregate
potential rewards large). Although they may yield very attractive internal rates of return as projects, the
end result may represent only a percentage point or two savings on total enterprise operating costs, or
even less
High transaction costs. If a given enterprise has no experience with a certain type of energy conservation
investment, the time required from skilled staff for securing information, analyzing design options,
arranging financing, and identifying reliable suppliers may make a small project not worthwhile.
Risk. Unless clearly demonstrated otherwise, fears that a new technology may not work, could interrupt
production, or take time to perfect, inhibit enterprise managers from adopting new energy-saving
technologies.
Technology transfer barriers. In some cases, it may be difficult for enterprises to gain access to
state-of-the-art technologies.
Difficulties in arranging financing. High loan transaction costs for such types of small projects make
commercial lending for many energy conservation projects unattractive to most banks. Additional
problems for banks may include lack of knowledge about the main technical areas and associated risk
factors, reticence to lend for projects where projected operating cost benefits form the main revenue
stream and cannot readily be isolated, or less-than-average collateral values for the diverse, small
equipment generally associated with an energy conservation project. Therefore, most enterprises give
priority to other projects when requesting bank loans.
Needs for regulatory support. Although specific, market-based interventions may help to overcome the
above barriers, there is also a need to improve regulatory support, especially in the following areas:
 Air pollution regulations. In China, simple and direct combustion of coal is often the least-cost
option for consumers for heat or steam production, and enforcement of bans on coal use or
increased taxes are necessary to provide incentives for use of more efficient, less-polluting energy
use in densely populated areas;
. Energy efficiency standards for key equipment. Development and enforcement of energy efficiency
standards is an appropriate tool to foster energy efficiency for certain types of energy-consuming
equipment to spur manufacturers to offer more efficient equipment.
. Building energy efficiency codes. China needs to improve enforcement of its building energy
efficiency codes, which have been proven elsewhere to be an efficient and cost-effective path to
energy efficient buildings.
Bank Strategy for Clean Fuel Transition and Energy Efficiency. The Bank, together with the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF), is supporting the government's efforts to increase the share of renewable
energy in electricity supply though the China Renewable Energy Scale-Up Program (CRESP). This is a
long term, large scale programmatic effort to introduce policies required to create an enabling
environment for large-scale development, improve technologies, open up competition in renewable
electricity provision, and create an internationally competitive renewable electricity industry in China. In
addition, the CRESP will provide assistance to the GOC to coordinate nonelectricity renewable energy
development. Through this effort, it is intended to create synergy and increase the impact of the efforts of
Chinese government agencies and donor assistance.
Similarly, the Bank has supported a broad program on energy efficiency in China during the last 10
years, in collaboration with the GEF, UNDP, the European Commission, and a series of bilateral donors.
Following extensive sector work, including the China Energy Conservation Study (1993), China: Issues
and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control (1994), project work has included the GEF China
-112 -



Efficient Industrial Boilers Project (1996), the IBRD/GEF/EC China Energy Conservation Project
(1998), and components in various recent electric power projects. The China Energy Conservation Phase
II Project is expected to be launched during 2002. Following the completion of an ASTAE study in 2001,
China: Opportunities to Improve Energy Efficiency in Buildings, a China Heat Reform and Building
Energy Efficiency Project may also be undertaken in the future. Complementing this project work, the
Bank has also sponsored a series of technical assistance and training projects, through ASTAE or
independently, on specific policy topics or capacity building areas.
Much of the Bank's work has focused on the development of mechanisms to overcome the barriers to
increased investment in energy conservation projects that are currently financially viable, especially in
industry. The China Energy Conservation Project, and its Phase II both focus on the introduction,
development and expansion of energy service companies (ESCOs), engaged in energy performance
contracting, as a market mechanisms to expand investment. This project package also includes a major
effort to package and disseminate improved information of energy conservation investment opportunities,
and a series of activities engaging the Chinese banking system in expansion of energy efficiency
investment.
The Bank has also been assisting the government's efforts to promote the development and deployment
of clean coal technologies. Following the completion of a joint study with the SDPC in 1999, "Policy
Recommendations on the deployment of Clean Coal Technologies," the Bank assisted SPCC to carry out
a comprehensive assessment of clean coal technologies for both electric power production and nonpower
coal use in China. The status of CCT development and application are reviewed and options to mitigate
environmental impact in conjunction with economic growth through wide adoption of clean coal
technologies for both the power sector and nonpower sector are presented. Together with GEF, the Bank
is looking into the possibility of supporting the development of the first IGCC project in China.
The Bank, together with PPIAF, is supporting the government's efforts to triple natural gas consumption
in less than a decade. The Bank is focusing on assisting the government to develop a more competitive
gas sector structure and establish a comprehensive modem regulatory framework to facilitate gas
production in the upstream by both private and public ventures and promote gas market development in
the downstream. With the recent publication "China: Economic Regulation of Long Distance Gas
Transmission and Urban Gas Distribution," the Bank is currently help the government to develop gas
pricing policy and formulation methodology, in particular with reference to the transmission tariff
formulation for the West to east gas pipeline.
Energy Resource Development in Western Areas
The government has embarked on a Western region Development Program to reduce poverty and
regional inequality that threaten social stability. Since a large proportion of China's energy resources,
particularly large hydropower, gas and renewables, are located in western areas, assistance in
development of these resources would support the government strategy. Development of large
hydropower and renewable resources would be particularly beneficial, since economical resources are
usually located in mountainous terrain or remote areas. This type of terrain, which typically involves land
shortages and difficult access, is also a primary determinant of poverty. Factors that inhibit such energy
resource development of minimize iis impact on poverty are the following:
Impediments to Renewable Development. Since renewables are largely located in western areas then
the impediments to renewable development listed above also inhibit development of western energy
resources
Inappropriate Benefit Sharing Mechanisms. Development of energy resources does generate
economic activity in the project area during the construction period, but there is little employment during
the operating period. Income taxes could provide a return to resource owning areas, but under the current
-113-



fiscal system the level of government receiving income tax relates to the ownership of the developer.
Since companies or governments in western areas generally do not have the financial resources to
develop their energy resources and transfer them to markets in the east, they are discouraged from
allowing others to do so since they do not receive tax benefits (or returns on equity). Revision of income
tax sharing arrangements, which is under consideration, may partly deal with this problem. However, the
appropriate mechanism for providing resource owners with a return for their development, is appropriate
royalty arrangements. In the case of gas, royalties do accrue to the central government but there are no
arrangements for sharing these with regional and local governments. In the case of economical
development of hydropower, an energy cost less than that of thermal alternatives implies an economic
rent, normally captured by royalty impositions. However, although hydropower royalties and royalty
sharing mechanisms are being introduced in other parts of the world, notably South America, they do not
yet exist in China.
Bank Strategy for Energy Resource Development in Western Areas. Bank strategy for assisting the
government in these areas is under development. To start the process, a study to analyze the
distributional impacts of energy development in western areas has been recently commenced. This will
draw on the experiences of other countries in terms of creating incentives for such developments and
maximizing development impacts to the undeveloped areas. The CRESP project referred to above will
also examine the mechanisms for pricing renewable energy to achieve the same objectives. Consistent
with the approach used for other energy sector objectives, proposed reforms will be piloted through
lending operations involving GEF where appropriate.
- 114 -



35'  H 7   -r                                      120               121'               1'2'  35'
YellowCHN
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gn~                                  YIXING PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT
0  171~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROJECT SITE
-REN  I VA  x 0                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER
Y' (                              ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING  CONSTI PLANNED
-  -   -   ~~500kV POWER LINES
SAN                 Wy-g                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  0  500kV SUBSTATIONS
1                                V                      H ~~~~~~~~~~"500kV CONVERTER
3A,~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~~L,nh ~                                    ---      500kV DC LINE
~~~              I~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~ POWER PLANTS
1x7S0  t     O     K       <oSo                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
YACEG               PROVINCE CAPITALS
50+70V
7             ~~~~~~~RIVERS AND CANALS
G 5               GPAND ~~~~CANAL
33'      x                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33'-
~~      -. . - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Th  p::tdbyd.Mp             G.Qy ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'JIO  ~ ~     ~     *      N     SANGUANDIAN    Sea
IX7~~~~~~~~~~2
TAN~                               MVA/ x50MA
~~                 YILF 2 X1000 MV D                               32
MONGOLIA ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     IINPPP      "         0O+oo~-AGAQA
GANG ~    ANGA
0                                    L~~~~ 5  0 7  r nyoss--.          <   ~    SAGA 
________________ 50_MVA                -\         A,AAO,
REP     ~~~~~                                                               l2'M1PCaEs 









IMAGING
Report No.:         24896   CHA
Type:      PAD



