Report No. PID10580
Project Name             CHINA-Yixing Pumped Storage
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   Power (80%); General public
administration sector (20%)
Project ID               P068058
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF CHINA
Implementing Agency
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER
COMPANY
Address: 20 Beijing Road (W), Nanjing,
China
Contact Person: Mr. Xu Songda, Deputy
General Manager
Tel: (86-25) 330-0300
Fax: (86-25) 330-7576
JIANGSU PUMPED STORAGE POWER COMPANY
LIMITED
Address: Yixing, Jiangsu Province, China
Contact Person: Mr. Huang Yuezhao,
General Manager
Tel: (86-510) 798-8098 Ext.5085
Fax: (86-510) 797-0166
Email: jsyxpspp@pub.wx.jsinfo.net
Environment Category     A
Date PID Prepared        December 2, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 16, 2002
Bank Approval Date       March 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Issues:
Over the two decades since 1980 a remarkable transformation has occurred,
creating a very different power sector. Reform occurred in waves. In early
2002, government functions were largely separated from enterprise
management. All energy enterprises were corporatized and operated as
commercial businesses. Budget allocations have been phased out and
subsidies eliminated. Investments are financed through equity and debt
from a variety of public and private sources. Electricity prices are on
average in line with long-run marginal supply costs in most grids.
In spite of this tremendous progress, the power sector still faces serious
problems that are described in details in Annex 14. These would be
gradually addressed if the reforms adopted by the highest Chinese
authorities and issued by the State Council in April 2002 (Document No5)
are adequately implemented.
Government Strategy:
From monopolies to competitive markets. The Government's strategy seeks



to: (a) gradually transform the power sector of provincial/regional
systems into a diversely owned market based industry through comprehensive
restructuring and (b) create a comprehensive modern regulatory framework
for the sector.
The 2002 State Council Document No. 5 is a major step forward in the
gradual process of reforming the power industry in China. It clearly
states that the objectives of reform in China are to continue the break up
of the monopolistic structure of the industry and gradually expand
competition to improve the allocation and productive efficiency of the
sector and ultimately provide the customers with the best service at the
lower possible cost. The following tasks are planned for the 10th
Five-Year Plan (2001-2005):
(a) The State Power Corporation owned generation assets will be
restructured into a number of independent generation companies, such that
the capacity share of a generation company in a power market should not
exceed 20 percent. A national grid company and a southern grid company
will be established to be responsible for transmission and distribution
business.
(b) Competitive and open regional markets will be implemented through
dispatching of generators according to bidding procedures, development of
market code(s). Market trials will be initiated to allow generators to
supply energy directly to large customers and to begin the phasing out of
the single buyer market structure.
(c) A new pricing mechanisms, including environmental protection
mechanisms that link the price paid to generators to their emissions to
encourage the development of renewable energy and clean generation
sources, will be developed. The electricity prices will be divided into
generation, transmission, distribution price and consumer supply.
(d) A power regulatory agency will be established under the State Council.
It will perform the duties and functions authorized by the State Council.
Its principle duties include: development of power market rules and
monitoring of market operations, ensuring fair competition, recommending
price adjustment to the government, supervising the service quality of the
power enterprises, issuing and supervising licenses, resolving market
disputes.
Adequate implementation of this far reaching reform program requires
rigorous planning and detailed analysis to ensure a transition without
disruption. Prerequisites for adequate implementation include mainly:
(a) Optimization of the generation mix at the provincial and regional
level: Most of the power systems in China rely more than required on
coal-fired and base load power plants. The inadequate generation mix,
especially the lack of peaking capacity, restricts the flexibility of
dispatch resulting in inefficient use of resources and reduced
reliability. Without optimized generation mixes, competitive markets would
not bring about the expected efficiency gains and increased reliability of
supply. Expected efficiency gains from optimized generation mixes and
economic dispatch are higher than those expected from other segments of
the industry (Generation costs in China account for 60 to 80% in final
consumer prices).
(b) Development of transmission: Transmission networks are underdeveloped
in most regions of China. Adequate functioning of provincial/regional
markets requires adequate transmission systems to avoid congestion and
lead to optimum use of installed capacity.
- 2-



(c) Transparent transactions and adequate contractual arrangement: Access
of eligible consumers to generators requires open access to the
transmission system. Since the latest reforms did not mandate separation
of transmission and distribution in the medium term, clear separation of
these functions is required within the network companies to ensure
fairness to other users of the transmission system and avoid conflict of
interest. Accounting of transmission and distribution functions should be
separated and transactions between them based on transparent rules and
procedures.
(d) Alignment of Pricing Policy with the principles of Document No5: The
new sector strategy outlines a pricing approach completely different from
the current administered and tightly controlled approach. Delay in
developing new guiding principles adapted to the competitive markets will
jeopardize the development of competitive power markets and undermine
achievement of the objectives sought by the government.
(e) Adequate regulation: Adequate regulation is essential to development
of competitive markets. It came to be considered as an integral part of
the reform process even in countries like China which did not commit to
full privatization of the sector. It is required to provide confidence to
investors (especially in high growth countries like China) and to shield
market participants and consumers from monopoly/monopsony/market power
abuses.
Bank Strategy:
The Bank strategy has been summarized in the OED country sector
evaluation of the Bank's assistance to China's energy sector as follows:
The Bank's activities have been through four distinct periods. In the
Early Years (1983-88), the Bank's assistance aimed at helping China's
integration into the global economy. It focussed on removing bottlenecks
to the country's accelerating economic growth and on institutional
development (emphasizing technology transfer and capacity building). In
the Years of Transition (1991-93), which followed a two-year hiatus in
Bank lending the focus was on consolidating earlier assistance to the
power sector, with an added emphasis on addressing the resettlement issues
associated with hydroelectric projects. In the Power Reform Years
(1994-97), the Bank's focus shifted to policy change and broad reform,
primarily, although not exclusively, in the electric power sector. This
coincided with economic reforms initiated by China in the early 1990s and
the greater urgency attached to that subsector by the government in light
of persistent power shortages in fast-growing Eastern China. In the Years
of Diversification (since 1998), Bank assistance continued and
strengthened a move beyond the power sector that had started in 1997.
Lending operations were added in energy conservation, district heating,
and renewable energy and AAA activities in the oil and gas sector were
renewed. Only two power loans have been made since 1998, resulting in a
significant decrease in overall energy lending.
The Bank strategy and assistance continued to evolve to meet the changing
circumstances and needs of the power sector. Lending activities and AAA
initiated during the last three years aim at fully bringing the assistance
strategy in line with the new business strategy framework with special
focus on poverty (Hubei Small Hydro Project--FY 02), support to reform and
-3 -



transition from monopolies to competitive markets (proposed FY03 Yixing
Pumped Storage Project to assist in adequate implementation of the
Government reform program at the provincial/regional level and FY03 AAA to
assist reforms,especially pricing, at the national level), protection of
local and global environment (FY03 TA clean technologies, GEF Energy
Efficiency II--FY03, China Renewable Energy Scale up Program under
preparation) and promotion of good governance and PSD (FY03 AAA to provide
assistance to the newly created State Electricity Regulatory
Agency--FY02/03, TA on PPI and PPIAF study on separation of generation.)
Bank stategy and activities are described in more details in Annex 14.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed project is to increase the overall
efficiency of the power sector in Jiangsu Province through: (a) design and
implementation of a far reaching of the sector to further competition at
the generation level and provide large consumers access to generators
(transition from a monopoly/monopsony structure to an unbundled
competitive structure: wholesale market by of end 2005 and eventually
retail market by 2012); and (b) construction of a pumped storage plant (4
x 250 MW) in Yixing to ease acute peaking problems and improve the
generation mix that would create the conditions for more flexible dispatch
and improved supply reliability, an essential requirement for well
functioning competitive markets.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Power sector reform and institutional development which is being achieved
through Bank involvement in the sector are ultimately aimed at developing
the power sector from one which initially represented a substantial drain
on public finances, to one which will expand and operate in response to
market forces and support public finances through taxes and through the
attraction of foreign investment to the country. Experience in China and
in other countries has also shown that power sector reform contributes to
widespread state owned enterprise and governance reform as well as
development of the financial sector
The investment components are appropriate vehicles for Bank investment in
segments of the sector that are not yet attractive to private investors.
No pumped storage projects have been developed privately for various
reasons.
World Bank involvement in the project would ensure that:
(a) Implementation of the Government's new power sector reform strategy,
which is the main focus of the proposed project, benefits from
international experience in power sector restructuring and the development
of power markets.    The Bank is in a unique position to bring global
experience to bear in power market design in such areas as power pricing,
market organization and operation; settlement systems; ancillary services
pricing and transitional arrangements. Particularly since the California
power crisis, many governments around the world are reconsidering their
deregulation plan and it has become critical to ensure sound
implementation to avoid the pitfalls experienced in some markets.
(b) The pioneering work related to the commercialization of the
transmission and distribution segment in Jiangsu province will provide
valuable inputs to the central government decision-making process in
developing a strategy to separate and commercialize the transmission and
distribution business.
(c) The legal and commercial arrangements defining the relationship
- 4 -



between the pumped storage plant and the power market are appropriate so
as to maximize the benefits of the plant to the system;
(d) The technical design, construction practices and equipment selected
for the pumped storage hydro plant is done in accordance with leading
international practice and standards.    China has limited experience in
these areas of pumped storage hydro plant development and this project
would significantly strengthen the capacity building initiated under two
previous projects.
(e) The on-going policy dialog to address the institutional aspects of
wholesale electricity pricing and transmission pricing, are successfully
implemented in major power systems that are likely to serve as models for
other regions/provinces.
(f) The piloting of consumer direct participation in Jiangsu will provide
a key input to the central government in formulating restructuring
strategy to create competitive markets with multiple buyers.
4. Description
1. Yixing Pumped Storage Power Plant Component
The development consists of: (a) a new upper reservoir impounded by a main
dam with a maximum height of 75 m and a subsidiary dam with a maximum
height of 35 m, (b) expansion of an existing lower reservoir by
heightening the dam to a maximum of 50 m; (c) a water conveyance system,
including intakes and outlets, headrace and tailrace
tunnels, and surge shafts, with the total length of about 2900 m; (d) an
underground powerhouse with an installed capacity of 4 x 250 MW, (d)
implementation of an environment management plan, (e) implementation of a
resettlement action plan including resettlement of 43 project affected
households, (f) consulting services to assist in engineering, design,
procurement and construction management, and (g) a comprehensive training
program to development management and technical staff capacity for both
the construction and operation phases
2. Power Sector Restructuring Component. The reform program includes: (a)
assistance to development of (i) a pricing policy adapted to the
competitive industry structure envisaged by the Chinese Government; and
(ii) a target pricing system and transition strategy for Jiangsu province
based on the new pricing principles to be adapted at the national level;
(b) studies and analyses for access of eligible customers to generators as
a first step towards the development of a competitive wholesale (retail in
the US sense) power market; and (c) adaptative of JPEPC's corporate
structure and management procedures to operate efficiently in competitive
environment.
3. The transmission component. A 6.3 km long double circuits 500 kV
transmission line will be built to connect the Yixing Pumped Storage Plant
to the East China 500 kV network
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD $135.00
IDA
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY $319.80
SUB-BORROWER(S) $120.50
Total Project Cost $575.30
-5-



6. Implementation
Implementation Period: Eight (8) Years, from 2002-2009
Executing Agency: JPEPC would be the executing agency of the
restructuring component and was responsible for the preparation of the
investment component in the early stage. JPEPC gained strong experience
during implementation of three Bank financed projects: Xuzhou-Shanghai
transmission line project (completed and rated satisfactory), Yangzhou
thermal power project and East China (Jiangsu) transmission line project
(ongoing and rated satisfactory ) in which JPEPC is entrusted with the
implementation of the investment component. JPEPC has qualified personnel
to undertake project preparation, implementation and operation. The power
market and sector restructuring component would be executed by JPEPC in
close coordination with State Power East China Company and with oversight
from the State Power Corporation (SP), the provincial government, the
State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC) and other central
government agencies. JPEPC has established a "core team" fully dedicated
to the preparation and implementation of the reform component with
adequate resources. During the project preparation and implementation
period, a comprehensive training program will be developed and implemented
to upgrade the skills and knowledge of JPEPC staff, especially on concept
of power sector reform, development of a competitive power market,
development of pricing mechanisms adapted to a restructured and
competitive environment.
A legally independent entity, Jiangsu Pumped Storage Power Company Limited
(JPSPC), has been created to manage the preparation, construction and
operation of the pumped storage project. JPSPC's organization charts and
staff plan for both the construction phase and operation have been
developed. It currently has 7 departments with 46 full time staff. Many
of the key personal are taken from JPEPC and other power entities,
including Bank financed Pumped Storage projects. They are very experienced
in project management, hydropower engineering, financial management,
procurement and contracting, environment and resettlement. During project
preparation and implementation, technical assistance will be provided as
part of the project to upgrade management skills of the key staff and
technical capabilities of the professional staff.
The Shanghai Electric Power Design Institute (SEPDI) is the initial
designer of the project and mainly responsible for designing the civil
works. The East China Investigation and Design Institute (ECIDI) is
responsible for designing the electric and mechanical works and bears the
main responsibility for preparation of the bidding documents. A Panel of
Experts (POEs) has been formed to provide periodic, independent reviews of
the project during final design and construction. An experienced
international consulting firm was hired to review the design of the upper
reservoir dam and underground facilities. Another well-known international
firm has been employed to assist in reviewing the final phases of the
design, preparing the bidding documents and bid evaluation, and assist in
construction management. Three supervising engineers (one for design and
two for construction) have been contracted to provide quality for design
and construction. Firms will be employed to carry out an independent
evaluation of resettlement throughout the resettlement period and monitor
the implementation of the environmental management plan during the entire
project implementation period.
JPSPC will buy power from and sell power and ancillary services to the
grid owned and operated by the regional power company. The power tariff
and service charge will be initially approved by the Jiangsu Provincial
- 6 -



Pricing Bureau in accordance with principles established by SDPC. However,
over time it is expected that such pricing arrangements will evolve
towards more market oriented arrangements.
Financial management and funds flow: The finance department of JPSPC, with
assistance and guidance from finance division of JPEPC, will be directly
responsible for monitoring, financing arrangement and financial
management, etc. It will also be responsible for maintaining, monitoring
and reconciling special account to be established for the project, and
preparing and verifying withdrawal applications before submitting to the
Bank for disbursement processing. JPEPC's knowledge of and experience in
Bank's disbursement procedures will prove valuable when JPSPC is ready to
withdraw Bank funds.
Bank loans will flow from the Bank to the special account to be set up for
the project, and/or to contractors or suppliers. Bank loan will be signed
between the Bank and MOF, and on-lending arrangement for the Bank loans
will be signed between MOF and JPSPC and JPEPC. Counterpart funds include
equity contributions and domestic bank loans. Shareholders have been
identified and shareholding arrangement finalized, and equity contribution
plan has also been established. Contributions will be made by
shareholders directly to JPSPC. Commitment to lending by one of the major
commercial banks has also been obtained.
Project Coordination: JPEPC would be responsible for overall coordination
of the Project, particularly the power sector restructuring and power
market development component will be closely coordinated with the policy
development and regulatory reform at the central level, and the sector
reform in the East China region.
Project Oversight and Policy Guidance: The power sector restructuring
component of the proposed Project will be supervised by the provincial
government and SP, under the overall policy guidance of the State Council.
The SP and the provincial government would be responsible for coordinating
with central government agencies on major reform issues. The Ministry of
Finance (MOF), the State Development Planning Commission (SDPC) and the
State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) will supervise project
financing and advise JPEPC on all financing matters. The concerned
provincial government agencies will oversee the planning and
implementation of resettlement. The State Environmental Protection
administration and the local environmental agencies will supervise and
monitor the implementation of the environmental management plan.
7. Sustainability
There are no significant environmental impacts that could affect
sustainability. Social sustainability could be assured by comprehensive
resettlement plans and the highly satisfactory track record of JPEPC and
the Jiangsu Government in implementing these plans. Financial
sustainability is assured by the pre-investment agreements and
affordability of projected tariffs. The institutional sustainability is
assured by the "ownership" by JPEPC of its Power Sector Reform Strategy &
Implementation Plan, and the commitment to and support for reform coming
from central and provincial governments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Several lessons drawn from the previous two Bank financed projects in the
province and completed and on-going power projects in other parts of China
and the world have been incorporated in the project design and in the
preparation phases to date. These are:
-7-



(a) Coordination of Bank supported project activities at decentralized
level with policy dialog on sector reform through economic and sector
work at the national level. In design and preparation for the power sector
restructuring and competitive power market and development component of
the project, a close coordination has been maintained with the sector work
and policy advice at the central level (sector work with SDPC on
developing a strategy for power sector reform and defining a generation
asset divestiture strategy, technical assistance to SCORES and SETC on the
development of a modern regulatory framework), the Tongbai Pumped Storage
Project (which includes a component to develop a competitive power market
in Zhejiang province), the Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project (which has a
component to restructure SMEPC), the East China (Jiangsu) Power
Transmission Project (which includes a component to develop power trading
at the regional level within East China). The coordinated approach
maximizes the likelihood of replication of successful reform efforts
throughout China and ensure consistency in sector restructuring and power
market development, avoiding the problems created with unclear delineation
of responsibility and affecting approaches that slowed implementation of
power markets in the USA.
(b) The need to move power market rapidly beyond the transitional phase.
In the Zhejiang pilot power market, the implementation process becomes
focused on the transitional stage (i.e. single buyer with generator
competition) as an end in itself. Administrative measures are used to
"mimic markets" rather than to focus on reforms necessary to create a real
market. During the design of the reform program under the Yixing Project,
the existing sector structure is only used as a stepping-stone to
wholesale competition in order to realize substantial efficiency benefits.
Direct contracting between the generators and the large consumers will be
permitted in the very early process of restructuring to create a
multi-buyer and multi-seller market.
(c) The need to increase public disclosure and transparency to foster
confidence in the market. In the Zhejiang pilot market, the investors are
not able to assess the risks of participating in the market. They can gain
virtually no information on the market reform process or daily market
operations and consequently have no confidence in the market. During the
design and implementation of power market under Yixing, all the policies,
rules and procedures will be widely discussed and consulted before being
adopted. Duirng market operation, detailed information on the market
reform process and daily market operations will be made easily available
to all existing and potential market participants through well-defined
procedures and channels.
(d) The need to start procurement of major equipment early and to have
efficient procurement management. The implementation of many power
projects has been delayed considerably due to delays in the procurement of
major equipment. The procurement process for such sophisticated equipment
as in the case of Yixing is complicated and takes long time by nature. It
needs to be started early in the preparation period so that bid award will
correspond with loan effectiveness in order to avoid delays. In addition,
most procurement delays which have occurred in China over recent years
have been related to the qualification of bidders and offered equipment,
in an environment where fully qualified bidders are continually increasing
the proportion of manufacture by subsidiaries, joint-venture partners and
subcontractors who are not themselves fully qualified. To a large extent,
these difficulties can be avoided through pre-qualification or staged
bidding processes and these have been assumed for the pump/generating unit
- 8 -



package for the Yixing plant.    Another difficulty which has resulted in
delays in power plant equipment installation in China relates to
interfaces between individual suppliers. Procurement packaging has
therefore been designed to reduce the number of packages to the minimum
practical level   while encouraging worldwide competition.    For civil
works construction, which is planned to be carried out by local
contractors, experience has been mixed. Therefore, JPSPC will also
pre-qualify local contractors.
(e) Need for early government approval of project. In recent power
projects there were delays in project processing stemming from delayed
internal Government approvals. These delays arose from inadequate
counterpart funding sources and delayed approval of feasibility studies
etc. In the current case, there is no shortage of counterpart funds and
the approval process for the physical components of the project are well
advanced. However, delays might be expected in view of the government's
limited understanding about the nature of the pumped storage project. A
workshop on the roles and economics of pumped storage project was held to
improve government's awareness. A detailed preparation schedule has been
prepared which clearly identifies Government approval steps, which are
invariably on the critical path. JPSPC has personnel permanently stationed
in Beijing to expedite approval processes.
(f) Need for early agreement on key principles of service purchase. In
China, several pumped storage projects were not optimally utilized in the
early stages of operation, stemming from the unclear definition of the
commercial arrangement between the power plants and the network operators
and/or inefficient pricing scheme for peaking capacity and ancillary
services. In the current case, the key principles of the service purchase
and commercial arrangement have been established and agreed. A clear
schedule for detailed development and implementation of the service
purchase agreements will be agreed so as to ensure that the benefits of
the power plants will be fully realized once it is operational.
(g) Adequate resettlement planning, consultation and monitoring. The
numerous lessons learned in several of the large Chinese reservoir
resettlement projects (Shuikou, Ertan and Daguangba) are being brought to
bear in the limited resettlement associated with Yixing. Particularly, the
affected people and local communities have been closely involved in
resettlement planning and identifying opportunities for maximizing
development impacts from resettlement. The transmission line resettlement
process will continue based on the highly successful organization and
procedures developed under the East China Transmission Project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The pumped storage plant exploits an existing lower reservoir by
heightening the dam by 50 m. A new upper reservoir, together with an
underground power house, is to be built. Both reservoirs are small with
surface areas of 41 ha (upper) and 71 ha (lower). The reservoirs are
impounded in valleys of dry hilly areas rather than constructed on a
river. The power plant also involves the construction of other permanent
structures and temporary works, occupying another 126 ha. A 6.3 km double
circuit 500 kV transmission line will be constructed for wheeling power
in/out to the 500 kV Liyang Substation, which connects to the East Chin
power grid. The transmission line primarily extend through relatively
undeveloped hills. As a result only about 2.4 mu of tea garden and wood
land will be lost. The main impact areas are lands that will be inundated
-9-



by each of the two reservoirs and land occupied by the hydropower
stations, access roads and support facilities.
EIA and EMP conforming to OP4.01 have been prepared and are summarized in
Annex 11. A summary EIA has also been prepared and circulated to the Board
in October 2002.
The most important impacts are:
removal of vegetation in areas designated for construction zones, roads,
and transmission line rights-of-way;
exposure of cut and fill slopes to the forces of erosion during
construction of the hydropower projects, roads, and resettlement village;
disruption to TV and Microwave stations;
short-term impact of large construction work forces moving into the area;
and
potential for degradation of drinking water wells located downstream of
the project.
To obtain public opinions regarding the project and to strengthen
environmental consciousness, opinion and data surveys were carried out for
the project during the development of the initial draft EA, and when the
draft EA was being revised to bring it into compliance with World Bank EA
standards. The questionnaires, results and analyses are fully presented in
the EA.
Meetings were held with the local county peoples' congresses, standing
committees and consultative committees, the media, workers associations,
farmers, and local residents. Women and minority ethnic interests were
well represented at the consultation sessions. All organizations within
the project affected areas indicated strong support for the respective
projects, primarily because it is believed that the projects will
contribute much needed economic development within each of the four
counties, thereby helping to alleviate poverty.
In addition to the public consultations, project evaluation and review
meetings were also held. These were attended by design institutes,
academics, state and provincial project sponsors, local county
environmental protection bureau staff, and staff from local county
resource management agencies. The groups systematically reviewed the
project environmental impacts and proposed mitigation measures. The
projects were subsequently approved by the Jiangsu Province Environmental
Protection Bureau, and State Power Corporation.
Information on the project has been disclosed to the public via numerous
public information events presented in television and radio broadcasts,
and newspaper articles. In addition to being provided with information on
the project, the public has been given details on how it can provide its
comments and recommendations to the project authorities. An announcement
was issued on the front page of the Yixing Daily Newspaper on 06 March
2001, inviting the public to review the report at the Yixing Environmental
Protection Station offices, and provide comments and/or recommendations on
the EIA report. Over the period 20 March 2001 to 04 April 2001, a total of
fourteen members of the public reviewed the report. The most significant
recommendation coming from the public was the need for improved
environmental oversight of the project. In response, the project authority
established its Project Environmental Management Office.
- 10 -



An independent agency will be employed to monitor and measure the impact
of the project on the environment during the construction and operation
phase of the project. Environmental monitoring reports will be furnished
to the Bank during the construction phase and during the first three years
of the operation.
10. Contact Point:
Jianping Zhao
World Bank Beijing Office
No.8, Chaoyangmen Beidajie
Beijing 100027, P.R.China
Tel: 86-10-65543361
Fax: 86-10-65541686
Jianping Zhao
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 1132
Fax: 202 522 1648
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 6, 2002.



