Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3864-NEP 
GRANT NUMBER H074-NEP 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NEPAL RASTRA BANK 
 
Dated June 10, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3864-NEP 
GRANT NUMBER H074-NEP 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NEPAL RASTRA BANK 
acting by its Governor (NRB). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Financing Agreement of even date 
herewith between THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty two million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR52,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Financing 
Agreement, but only on condition that NRB agrees to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and NRB, the proceeds of the Financing provided for under the Development 
Financing Agreement shall be made available to NRB on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS NRB, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Financing Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of NRB 
 
Section 2.01. NRB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Financing Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, banking, economic and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and in accordance with the Nepal Rastra 
Bank Act. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NRB
 
shall otherwise agree, NRB
 
shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) NRB
 
shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NRB shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between NRB and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with NRB on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. NRB shall duly perform all its obligations under NRB Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NRB shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) NRB
 
shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Financing. 
 
(b)  
NRB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Financing, or the performance by NRB of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) NRB shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) NRB 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon NRB’s reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, NRB shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty 
five days after the end of the first Fiscal Year trimester after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first Fiscal Year trimester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five days after each subsequent Fiscal Year trimester, and 
shall cover the period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such Fiscal Year 
trimester. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of NRB 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Financing Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Financing Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify NRB of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted
 to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. est. The addresses so specified 
are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For NRB: 
 
Nepal Rastra Bank 
 
Baluwatar, Kathmandu 
 
Kathmandu, Nepal 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977+1) 441 0159 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NRB may be 
taken or executed by the Governor, Nepal Rastra Bank, or such other person or persons 
as NRB shall designate in writing, and NRB shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
Country Director 
Nepal 
 
NEPAL RASTRA BANK 
 
By /s/ Gopal Prasad Kaphle 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $30,000 but less 
than $200,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
(b) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(iii) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria  
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed with the Association; 
 
(iv) 
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(v) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
reference of any kind shall be given to national bidders; 
 
(vi) 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidders or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(x) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates; 
 
(xi) 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
 
(xii) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
(xiii) 
a
bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
 
(xiv) 
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which: 
 
(1) 
if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be 
disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next 
lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
 
(2) 
if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of 
the Association. 
 
(xv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (i) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight weeks, and (ii) for all 
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period; 
 
(xvi) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; and 
 
(xvii) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; and (ii) the first contract for goods to be procured using national 
competitive bidding, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section II. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for Second Phase of Nepal Rastra Bank Reengineering 
under Part C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  14
-
12 - 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for Management Team Support under Part D of the Project, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every twelve 
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
Page  15
-
13 - 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
the Nepal Rastra Bank shall: 
 
(a) 
further re-lend portion of the Financing to the Beneficiary Banks under 
RBB, NBL Subsidiary Financing Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall be 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
RBB, NBL Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall, 
inter alia
,
include: 
(i) the same financial terms and conditions, and denominated in the same currencies of 
the Development Financing Agreement; and (ii) repayable to NRB in same currencies.  
 
(c) 
exercise its rights under RBB, NBL Subsidiary Financing Agreement, in 
such a manner as to cause the Beneficiary Banks to implement their VRS Schemes 
including procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria acceptable to the Association, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Beneficiary Banks  shall not amend, 
or waive any provision of the such Schemes, if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project; 
 
(d) 
not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, continue 
to prepare annual action and procurement plans for implementation of the activities 
under the Project including costing and budget projections, and taking into account the 
Association’s recommendations, finalize, not later than July 15 of each year, such plans; 
 
(e) 
maintain, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
throughout the Project implementation period, the CST with adequate logistic and 
administrative support; and 
 
(f) 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, maintain a 
computerized Financial Management System and adequate levels of staff including 
financial management staff needed for the Project and agreed with the Association from 
time to time.  
 
2. 
the Nepal Rastra Bank
 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 1, 2007, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Page  17
-
15 - 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by January 15, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
 
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legsa\Nepal\Financial Sector Restructuring Project- II\Financial Sector Restructuring Project (PA)(Conf).doc 
June 23, 2004 5:24 PM
 
