Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3864-NEP 
GRANT NUMBER H074-NEP 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 10, 2004 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3864-NEP 
GRANT NUMBER H074-NEP 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 2004, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), with the 
Borrowe
r’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the credit (the “Credit”) and the proceeds of the grant (the “Grant”) provided 
for in Section 2.01(a) and Section 2.01(b), respectively, of this Agreement available to 
NRB, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made;  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and the Nepal Rastra Bank (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  4
-
2
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary Banks” means, collectively, Nepal Bank Limited and 
Rastriya Banijya Bank collectively; 
 
(b) 
“Commercial Bank Act” means the Borrower’s Commercial Bank 
Act, 1974, as amended, or any subsequent statute enacted by the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
“Coordination Support Team” and “CST” means the team of staff and 
officials to  be maintained within Nepal Rastra Bank’s Operations Department, which 
shall be responsible for implementing the Project on behalf of Nepal Rastra Bank; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower 
commencing on or about mid-July of a calendar year and ending on or about mid-July  of 
the following calendar year;  
 
(g) 
“FSSS” means the Borrower’s Financial Sector Strategy Statement 
published in 2000;  
 
(h) 
“FSTA Project” means the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement No. 3727 NEP, signed 
between the Borrower and the Association on April 30, 2003; 
 
(i) 
“Nepal Bank Limited” and “NBL” means the Nepal Bank Limited 
established under the Companies Law of Nepal, as amended, and further operating 
pursuant to the Commercial Bank Act; 
 
(j) 
“Nepal Rastra Bank” and “NRB” means the Borrower’s central bank 
operating under the Nepal Rastra Bank Act; 
 
(k) 
“Nepal Rastra Bank Act” means the Borrower’s Nepal Rastra Bank 
Act, 2002 as amended from time-to-time, under which the Nepal Rastra Bank has been 
established and operates as the Borrower’s central bank; 
 
(l) 
“Nepalese Rupee” and the sign “NRs.” mean the lawful currency of the 
Borrower; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(m) 
“NRB Subsidiary Financing  Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Nepal Rastra Bank pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Operations Department” means the Banks and Financial Institutions 
Regulation Department of Nepal Rastra Bank; 
 
(o) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
the Nepal Rastra Bank, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;  
 
(p) 
“Rastriya Banijya Bank” and “RBB” means the Rastriya Banijya Bank 
operating pursuant to the Commercial Bank Act; 
 
(q) 
“RBB, NBL Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement to 
be entered into between the Nepal Rastra Bank and the Beneficiary Banks pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the RBB, NBL Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“Supervision Department” means the Financial Institution Supervision 
Department and the Bank Supervision Department of Nepal Rastra Bank; and 
 
(t) 
“VRS” means Voluntary Retirement Scheme. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Financing 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a)  
an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty seven million six 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR47,600,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b)  
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR4,900,000) (the Grant). 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project, and amounts paid (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be paid) under Severance Payments, and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Financing. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Nepal Rastra Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum;  and (ii) a commitment charge on the amount of 
the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of 
June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately 
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2014, and ending 
February 15, 2044. Each installment up to and including the installment payable on 
February 15, 2024 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita Gross National Product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of 
five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Financing Agreement, shall cause the Nepal Rastra Bank to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Nepal Rastra Bank 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Nepal Rastra Bank to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall re-lend in the same currencies the proceeds of the 
Financing to the Nepal Rastra Bank under NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the NRB.  
 
(c) 
The Nepal Rastra Bank shall further re-lend in the same currencies 
portion of the proceeds of the Financing to the Beneficiary Banks under RBB, NBL 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, all under terms and conditions which shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(d) 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NRB to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NRB therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NRB to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under NRB Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the Grant, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive NRB 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  9
-
7
-
proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project, shall be 
carried out by NRB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause NRB to take, all necessary legal, 
administrative and procedural measures, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure its 
effective control of the Nepal Bank Limited until the completion of its restructuring 
process aimed at improving prospects for its privatization, which shall include fit and 
proper strategic investor(s). 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
Page  10
-
8
-
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Financing Accounts was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Association may have requested pursuant to  
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
NRB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Financing Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that NRB will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the Nepal Rastra Bank Act shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of NRB 
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the NRB Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement;  
 
(d)  
the Commercial Bank Act shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Beneficiary Banks to perform any of their obligations under the RBB, NBL Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement; and 
Page  11
-
9
-
(e) 
failure to submit in a timely manner, satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association, audited financial statements for the Financial Sector Technical Assistant 
Project for the Fiscal Year ended on July 14, 2003.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Financing Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and NRB; and 
 
(b) 
the RBB, NBL Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the NRB of one part, and the Beneficiary Banks of the second part . 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by 
NRB, and is legally binding upon NRB in accordance with its terms; 
 
(b) 
that NRB Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
executed by the Borrower and NRB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NRB 
in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
that RBB, NBL Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly 
authorized or executed by NRB and the Beneficiary Banks and is legally binding upon 
NRB and the Beneficiary Banks in accordance with its terms. 
 
Page  12
-
10 -
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Singha Durbar   
Kathmandu 
 
Nepal
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4259-891 
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL  
 
By /s/ Bhanu Prasad Acharya 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
Country Director 
Nepal
 
Page  14
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Severance 
39,250,000 
0 
100% of  
 
payments  
 
amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(2) Goods 
2,780,000 
0 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) Consultants’ 
4,170,000
 
4,900,000
85%
services  
 
 
(4) Unallocated  
1,400,000 
0 
 
 
__________ _________ 
TOTAL 47,600,000 4,900,000 
 
========= ======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
Page  15
-
13 -
(c) 
the term “Severance Payments” means payments made by the 
Beneficiary Banks, to their employees who will seek voluntary retirement as a result of 
the proposed restructuring of the Beneficiary Banks, such payment shall not include 
provident fund payment, encashment of leave and medical benefits. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR18,360,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after September 1, 2003; and 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i) goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; 
(iii) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $25,000 
equivalent per contract; and (iv) Severance Payments, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  16
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) sustaining and 
deepening the on-going efforts to develop a healthier financial sector initiated by the 
Borrower in 2003 under the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTA 
Project) and in line with the Borrower’s medium term vision as enunciated in the FSSS; 
(ii) further strengthening the Nepal Rastra Bank for it to effectively perform its central 
banking functions; and (iii) restructuring the Beneficiary Banks to improve their 
prospects for privatization, which shall include fit and proper strategic investor(s). 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)
1. 
Implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme to right-size staffing levels at 
the Beneficiary Banks including the payments of severance for approximately 4,700 staff 
seeking voluntary retirement. 
 
Part B:
Hiring of Sales Advisors
1. 
Provision of consultants’ services for the hiring of a sales adviser to assist in 
privatization the Beneficiary Banks, which shall include fit and proper strategic investors. 
 
Part C:
Second Phase of Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) Reengineering
1. 
Strengthening Nepal Rastra Bank’s human resource management capabilities 
through the following measures: 
 
(a) 
adopt a new simplified organizational structure;   
 
(b) 
assist in implementing Nepal Rastra Bank’s new human resource policies 
which emphasize merit-based advancement criteria; and 
 
(c) 
further development and implementation of the training plan, designed 
under FSTA Project, for continuous professional development of Nepal 
Rastra Bank’s staff. 
 
Page  17
-
15 -
2. 
Supporting Nepal Rastra Bank’s accounting reform through the following 
measures: 
 
(a) 
revise existing Accounting Manual consistent with International 
Accounting Standards (IAS); and  
 
(b) 
provision of consultants’ services to assist in developing NRB's accounts  
to be compatible with IAS. 
 
3. 
Further strengthening Nepal Rastra Bank’s supervisory and regulatory capacity 
with respect to banks and non-banking financial institutions through the following 
measures: 
 
(a) 
enhancing technical and physical support for the work of the Nepal 
Rastra Bank’s Supervision Department, through the provision of desk top 
computers and lap top computers; 
 
(b) 
provision of consultants’ services to assist with on-the-job training 
during the two-year examination cycle of all Borrower’s commercial 
banks; and 
 
(c) 
conducting classroom training for professional development of Nepal 
Rastra Bank’s staff in the area of  bank supervision, computing, and 
report writing, all consistent with international standards.  
 
4. 
Strengthening information technology solutions for Nepal Rastra Bank. 
 
Part D:
Management Team Support
Provision of consultants’ services to maintain the Beneficiary Banks under 
professional management from the end of the third year of the Management Team 
contracts through to full privatization of said Banks. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2009. 
Page  18
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services, Severance Payments required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to four 
million Dollars ($4,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to two million Dollars 
($2,000,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR5,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  19
-
17 -
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
Page  20
-
18 -
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account, as the case 
may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  21
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Modifications of General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions generally applicable to 
development financing granted by the Association as a development credit and 
development grant to its members.  They apply to any development financing agreement 
providing for any such development finance to the extent and subject to any 
modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“8. “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  
Development Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as 
applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
 
“15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.”; 
 
16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited.”; 
 
17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant. 
 
18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the 
Credit Account or the Grant Account).” 
 
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and 
Article IX. 
 
Page  22
-
20 -
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01(6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
 
6. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts.  
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the 
Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower as 
provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.  
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn 
from the Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
 
8. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the words “any development credit 
agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to 
Section 6.02(c)(i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the 
words “with the Association”, and to Section 7.01(b)(i) after the words “any other 
development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association”:   
 
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any cancellation of 
any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several installments of the 
principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such cancellation.” 
 
