                                                  Documentof
                                               The World Bank

                                                                                          ReportNo: 27417
                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                       ON A

                                          PROPOSEDIDA CREDIT

                                              SDR 47.6 MILLION
                    INTHEAMOUNT OF(USD$68.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                       AND

                           PROPOSEDIDA GRANT OF SDR 4.9 MILLION
                     INTHEAMOUNT OF(US $7.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)




                                                    TO THE

                             HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL

                                                      FORA

                         FINANCIAL SECTORRESTRUCTURINGPROJECT

                                                January22,2004




Financeand Private Sector Development
SouthAsia RegionalOffice




This document has a restricted distributionand maybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective November 28,2003)

                                 Currency Unit = Nepalese rupee
                                        lrupee = US$O.O129
                                          US$ = SDR0.6946

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 15      - July 14

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian DevelopmentBank
ADBN       Agricultural DevelopmentBank o f Nepal
CEO        Chief Executive Officer
 CFG       Corporate and Financial Governance
 CIAA      Commission for the Investigation o f the Abuse o f Authority
 CRR       Cash Reserve Requirement
 CST       Coordination Support Team (inNRB)
 DFID      Department for InternationalDevelopment
 DRT       Debt Recovery Tribunal
 FMR       FinancialMonitoringReport
 FSSS      Financial Sector Strategy Statement
 FSTA      Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
 GDP       Gross Domestic Product
 HMGN      HisMajesty's Government o fNepal
 HR        Human Resources
 I A S     InternationalAccounting Standards
 I C A N   Institute o f Chartered Accountants o f Nepal
 IDA       InternationalDevelopment Association
 IMF       InternationalMonetary Fund
 ICT       Information Communications Technology
 IT        Information Technology
 MOF       MinistryofFinance
 NF3L      Nepal Bank Limited
 NEPSE     Nepal Stock Exchange
 NIDC      Nepal IndustrialDevelopment Corporation
 NPA       Non-PerformingAssets
 NPL       Non-Performing Loans
 NRB       Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank)
 PRGF      Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility
 PSRC      Poverty Strategy Reduction Credit
 RBB       Rastriya Banijya Bank
 SLR       Statutory Liquidity Requirement
 TA        Technical Assistance
 VRS       Voluntary Retirement Scheme
-
                                 Vice President:      Praful C. Pate1
                              Country Director:       Kenichi Ohashi
                                Sector Director:      Joseph Del Mar Pemia
                             Task Team Leader:        Simon C. Bell

                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                        PAD Cover Sheet
                                        Kingdom of Nepal
                               Financial Sector Restructuring Project

                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                        South Asia Region

                            Finance and Private Sector oevelopment Unit




        Project ID:PO84219                     Restructuring and Privatization




This document hasa restricteddistribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The objective o f this operation i s to support the continuing efforts o f HMGNto improve the
operation o f the financial sector inorder to ensure continued macroeconomic stability and
promote private sector-led economic growth.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a,
TechnicalAnnex 4
Support to Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS) inRastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) and Nepal
Bank Limited (NBL),Hiringo f Sales Advisors to privatizedthese two banks, Phase I1o f on-
going Nepal Rastra Bank (central bank -NRB)restructuring, and on-going Management Team
Support inthe two large commercialbanks (RBB andNBL).
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
None



Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
None

Loadcredit effectiveness:
None

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
None

                                                                   NEPAL
                                     FinancialSector RestructuringProject

                                                              CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                         Page
A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE .......................................................................                                                 1
   1.    Country and sector issues............................................................................................................. 1
   2.    Rationale for Bank involvement ..................................................................................................                 4
   3.    Higher level objectives to which the project contributes .............................................................                            5
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION.......................................................................................................                              5
   1.    Lending instrument ......................................................................................................................         5
   2.    Project development objective and key indicators.......................................................................                           5
   3.    Project components......................................................................................................................          6
   4.    Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design.....................................................................                           7
   5.    Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection .......................................................................                          8
C. IMPLEMENTATION...............................................................................................................                           8
   1.    Partnership arrangements .............................................................................................................             8
   2.    Institutionaland implementation arrangements ...........................................................................                          9
   3.    Procurement .................................................................................................................................     9
   4.    Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeshesults.........................................................................                            10
   5.    Sustainability ............................................................................................................................. 10
   6.    Critical risksand possible controversial aspects........................................................................                          10
   7.    Loadcredit conditions and covenants........................................................................................                       12
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY.....................................................................................................                                  12
   1.    Economic and financial analyses .............................................................................................. -12
   2.    Technical.................................................................................................................................... 12
   3.    Fiduciary .................................................................................................................................... 13
   4.    Social .........................................................................................................................................  13
   5.    Environment.............................................................................................................................. -13
   6.    Safeguard policies......................................................................................................................          13
   7.    Policy Exceptions and Readiness...............................................................................................                    14

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background................................................................                                          15
Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies .........................                                                         23
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring .............................................................................                                     25
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description.........................................................................................                             29
Annex 5: Project Costs .................................................................................................................                   32
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements......................................................................................                                 33
Annex 7: Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements ............................................                                                     35
Annex 8: Procurement..................................................................................................................                     39
Annex 9: Economic andFinancial Analysis .................................................................................                                  42
Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues ..............................................................................................                            44
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision...........................................................................                                   46
Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File.....................................................................................                                47
Annex 12A: Letter of Financial Policies ......................................................................................                             48
Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits ..................................................................................                                 53
Annex 14: Country at a Glance.....................................................................................................                         54


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Countryandsector issues

Country Background. Nepalis one ofthe world's poorest countries, with an annual per capita income
o f about US$240 with many indicators showing a very poor quality o f life. Progress inthe fight against
poverty has been hampered by a number o f factors, including a succession o f unstable Governments.
More recently, the challenge has intensifiedwith the escalation o f the insurgency and lingering instability
inthe Government. Security concerns have beenheightenedbythe August 2003 collapse o fthe ceasefire
agreed with insurgents operating inthe country and there i s a fear o f wider civil disturbance. Together
with the global economic slowdown that has adversely impactedNepal's trade-dependant economy, these
domestic events have led to a sharp downturn ineconomic activity. Relatedto this i s potential fiscal
stress, as public spending has been obliged to accommodate increased security demands. Meanwhile,
there i s widespread belief that the insurgency i s fundamentally a challenge to a state that has not proved
itself effective indealingwith Nepal's development agenda.

FinancialSector Background. Nepalhas 17commercialbanks -comprisingthe two large banksNepal
Bank Limited (NBL)and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) inwhich the government has a dominant
shareholding; 6 Joint Venture Banks, which are mixedNepalilforeign owned (foreign ownership i s
constrained to 67 percent); and 9 local (100 percent Nepali) banks. It also has 2 large development banks
-theAgriculturalDevelopmentBankofNepal(ADBIN)andtheNepalIndustrialDevelopment
Corporation (NIDC) which also undertake some commercial banking activities. The system also operates
with 54 finance companies, 13 insurance companies, numerous micro-finance institutions, 7 Grameen
Replicator Banks, 35 financial cooperatives, 25 financial Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), and a
stock exchange. The two largest commercialbanks -RBB and NBL- account for around 50 percent o f
total banking system assets, and are in a very precarious financial position. Political intervention, weak
management, poor financial information systems, and a deeply entrenched culture of non-repayment o f
loans have resultedina rapid deterioration o f their financial health. RBB, which represents 27 percent o f
commercial banking system assets, i s estimated to have 71percent non-performing loans. Although in
slightlybetter financial condition, NBLhas similar problems including around 59 percent non-
performing loans (NPLs). This could have serious ramifications for the Government interms o f systemic
riskand couldprove to be a severe financial strain on an already delicate budget should either o fthese
two banks face a crisis o f confidence with concomitant adverse macroeconomic implications. The 2003
unauditedaccounts for RBB and NBL indicate that these two banks had estimated accumulated deficits,
as o f mid-2003, o f approximately $435 million - equivalent to around 7 percent o f GDP. BothNBL and
RBBhave made significantprogress inreducingtheir operating losses since professional management
teams assumed control o f their operations in2002 (supported by a World Bank Phase IFinancial Sector
Technical Assistance (FSTA) credit).

In addition, the two large development banks have deteriorated incomparable fashion to that o f RBB and
NBL. The financial positionsofADBINandNIDC are currently intheprocessofbeing appraisedbythe
Asian Development Bank (ADB)- and a work out plan i s being developed.

Ingeneral, Nepal's financial system suffers from the followingproblems:

(a)       The Government'sRole. HisMajesty's Government o fNepal (HMGN)plays a large direct role
inthe financial sector. Fromownershipofkey financial institutionssuch as RBB,ADB/N,the Grameen
banks, the largest insurance company, the stock exchange, the largest investmentcompany, and, until
recently, Nepal Bank Limited (where it remains the largest single shareholder); to significant influence
over the Joint Venture Banks; the Government's involvement i s evident inalmost every aspect o f




                                                       1

financial sector activity. This has resulted in strong political interference inbanlung activities which, in
turn,has resultedinnon-repayment o floans, andpoor financialhealththroughout the system.

(b)       NepalRastraBank(NRB)-the CentralBank. UntilJanuary 2002, when anew Act was
approved, the NRB fell under the authority o f the Ministryo f Finance. This historical lack o f autonomy
hinderedthe NRB's ability to supervise andregulate the banking system. Political influence inRBB and
NBL-andtheir dominanceinthebanlungsystem-alsoplacedthesebanks outside the influenceand
control o f the central bank. Although still requiring further modification in several areas, the 2002 Nepal
Rastra Bank Act provides the NRB with basic autonomy. The authority o f NRB over the banking system
has been further establishedby the recent Cabinet approval o f the Banking and Financial Institutions
Ordinance. Improved banking regulations also provide the regulatory basis for NRBto move the system
closer to international banking norms while permitting the bank supervisors to deal expeditiously with
errant banks. The NRB i s supported inthis endeavor through a substantive program o f capacity building
from a resident team o f international banking experts supported by IDA under the FSTA.

(c)       RastriyaBanijyaBank(RBB) is 100percent Government owned. Itis the biggest ofNepal's
commercial banks with deposits o f approximatelyRs 40 billion- 25 percent o f the Nepali banking
system. RBB i s technically insolvent with highlevels o f non-performing assets ("As)       -andhadan
estimated negative net worth of US$335 million as o f July 2003. A professional management team took
over the bank inearly 2003 -the new CEO, recruitedon a fixed-term contract, joined the bank on
January 16th2003, followed by the rest o f the team inlate February 2003. Invariance to the original
concept, each member o f the management team has been hired individually.

Due to the on-going insurgency, branches have been reducedfi-om more than 200 to around 130
nationwide and the total number o f staff inthe bank i s beingreduced from 5,522 to a target figure close to
3,200 through a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) launched in September 2003. At the same time a
process o f computerization i s underway and some 42 branches are expected to operate with an online
system. RBB continues to suffer from a highpercentage o f non-performing loans although performance
inthis fieldis improvingunder the guidance ofthe new managementteam.

(d)       NepalBankLimited(NBL). The financial conditiono fNBLhas also been significantly
impaired, butnot to the same extent as RBB. NBLi s the oldest bank inNepal (established in 1935)        -  it is
also the second largest bank with deposits o f Rs 35 billion. Originally, the Government owned the entire
bank but its shareholding was sold down throughout the 1990s to reach41 percent. The Govemment's
policy o f successively selling shares to the general public has, however, left the bank without a strategic
banking partner - and, meanwhile, the connected lending activities o f the newprivate owners are thought
to have further compromised its operations. Incommon with RBBit has suffered from weak
management, political interference, and a lack o f financial controls.

UsingWorld Bank assistance, HMGNdecided to bringinprofessional management fromthe Bank o f
Scotland to take over the day-do-day runningo fNBL inAugust 2002. Initial main areas o f focus for the
new management team have included, producing credible audited accounts for 2001 and 2002, designing
and developing a minimumInformationTechnology (IT) platform for the bank, developing appropriate
humanresource policies for the staff, strengthening its treasury management function, identifying non-
performing loans, and establishing a loan recovery unit to deal with these NPLs. The ManagementTeam
i s also restructuring the bank by reducing staffing levels by almost 50 percent; rationalizingthe branch
network; recoveringon non-performing loans; and requesting delisting fi-om the Nepal Stock Exchange
(NEPSE).

(e)       The AgriculturalDevelopmentBankof Nepal(ADBN. The financial and operational
situation o f the ADB/N, the thirdbiggest bank inNepal, i s also extremely poor. The ADB/Nwill require


                                                       2

restructuring, system development, changes ingovernance arrangements, and a review o f its ultimate role
and ownership arrangements. Reform inthis bank i s being supported by the ADB. Close coordination
between IDA and the ADB means that reforms made inFU3B and NBLare likely to be replicatedin
ADB/Nto ensure a consistency of approach.

(f)      A Weak andFragmentedLegalFinancialEnvironment. Although recent progress inthis area
i s noteworthy, Nepal has historically suffered from a proliferationo f bothlaws and regulations that are
institutionally rather than hnctionally focused. This has created a fragmented legal environment.

         The NepalRastraBankAct, now superseded by a January 2002 Act, was seriously outdated
         and deficient withrespect to issues o f central bank autonomy, accountability, and governance.
         The new legislation strengthens its independence and supervisory role.

     e   The 1974 CommercialBankAct was also defective and it didnot cover all deposit-taking
         institutions. A proliferation o f laws covering various classes o f deposit-taking institutions
         permitted legal arbitrage. NRB has drafted a new omnibus Bankmg and Depository Institutions
         Act that was approved by Cabinet inlate 2003.

     e   AncillaryLaws. New legislationis also requiredinsuch areas as Secure Transactions,
         Insolvency, and a new Company Law, etc.

(g)      A Weak andFragmentedAccountingandAuditingEnvironment. A weak accounting and
auditing tradition has meant that the timeliness and reliability o f financial data from banks i s poor.
Corporate accounting i s also weak, making lending decisions difficult for the banks. The overall
strengthening o f accounting and auditing i s therefore essential. The progress made, inthis respect, within
the two largest commercial banks by the newly institutedmanagement teams, i s noteworthy.

(h)      Competitioninthe BankingSector. Reform o fthe state-owned banking sector is designed to
reduce fragmentation and support efficient intermediationo f funds within the financial sector. This will
increase competitivepressures and provide more efficient and cost-effective solutions to the public.

(i)      Other Issues. The financial sector environment also needs to be strengthenedinseveral other
important areas. Credit information systems needto be made more reliable and effective; the Nepal
Stock Exchange requires urgent reform; and access to finance for many millions o f rural Nepalis needs to
be addressed.


(j)      Government Strategy. Over the past few years, the Governmenthas undertaken general reform
measures inthe financial sector. These include interest rate deregulation, the phase out o f Statutory
LiquidityRequirements (SLR), reduction inCashReserveRequirement(CRR), introductiono fmodem
bank regulations, and foreign exchange liberalization. However, much remains to be done, particularly
withrespect to institutional reform. To help establish a mediumterm framework, the Government
formulated a Financial Sector Strategy Statement (FSSS) that consolidates its thinkingand develops a
comprehensive and interlinked reformprogram. This FSSS has been adopted as official Government
policy and was publicly released and published inthe Nepali and Englishpress at the end o f 2000. The
main elements o fthe FSSS include:

     e   Reducing the role o f the Government inthe financial sector as a direct owner o f financial
         institutionswhile strengthening its role as a supervisor and regulator;
     e   Requiring strong corporate governance by ensuring that banks (inparticular the two largest
         commercial banks) are owned and managed by "fit andproper" private investors;



                                                       3

    0     Strengthening the role o f Nepal Rastra Bankby drafting a new central bank Act to provide
         autonomy inthe conduct ofmonetarypolicy, banking system regulation and supervision, and the
         licensing o f banks and nonbanks;
    0    Improvingexisting banking and financial legislation andjudicial processes for enforcing financial
         contracts;
    0    Improving auditing and accountancy standards within the banking sector; and
    0    Promoting financial discipline through adequate disclosure and competition.

To date, the Government o fNepal has demonstrated a seriousness and commitment to banking reform
and has not wavered inmoving ahead with the difficult agenda. Actions taken so far provide IDA with
comfort that the Government i s willing to transparently and decisively address the issues at hand.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement
The objective o f this operation i s to support the efforts o f HMGNto improve the financial sector inorder
to ensure continued macroeconomic stability and promote private sector-led economic growth. This
represents the secondphase o f a larger financial sector reform effort -whichbeganwith the FSTA.
Assuming on-going commitment to reform, this would leadultimately to athirdphase involving bank
privatization. Phase Iinvolvedbringinginthree management consultant teams to: restructure andre-
engineer the central bank; and reform the two large commercial banks (Rastriya Banijya Bank and Nepal
Bank Limited). This secondphase will assist in(i)      right-sizing the two commercial banks through the
implementation o f Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS) to reduce operating costs and make them viable
for privatization; (ii) bringingina Sales Advisor to assist inthe privatization; (iii)
                                                                                    providing further
assistance to a second phase o f Central Bank re-engineering; and (iv) supporting the continuation o f
professional management team support up untilthe point o f bank privatization. Phase I11(not included in
thisproject) would involve support for financial re-engineering o fthe banks (re-capitalization) at the
point o f sale after satisfactory changes in governance arrangements and cost restructuringhave taken
place.

The operation supports the Nepal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2004-2007 (Report No. 26509-
NEP) outcomes inthe financial sector as well as governance objectives. Improvement inthe banking
sector i s one o fthe key growth-enhancing structural reforms that Nepal must undertake inorder to
stimulate a more pro-poor and inclusive growth process. The CAS recognizes that a strong financial
system i s critical for private sector development. On-going progress with respect to banking reform i s a
keytrigger for Nepal to remain inabase case lending scenario.

Borrower commitment to financial sector reformi s evidenced by the medium term vision laid out inthe
Financial Sector Strategy Statement and reaffirmed inthe Letter o fFinancial Policy (December 9, 2003).
Itis further demonstrated bythe hiringo fmanagement teams to implementreforminthe commercial
banks and the free hand that they have been given to deal with defaulting borrowers.

The project elements are inline with the analyticalwork undertaken on Nepal's financial sector. The
Financial Sector Study (October 2002) recommends a human resource re-engineering exercise within the
two largest commercial banks and the implementation o f a VRS scheme to right-size staffing levels -to
prepare the banks for privatization. This i s an important next step inthe on-going movement towards
privatization. A main lesson from previous Bank assisted projects i s that implementationprogress i s
generally faster when project components have been fully developed prior to project approval. With the
VRS schemes already designed and ready to go, this has been taken care o f inthe current operation.




                                                        4

3. Higher level objectivesto which the projectcontributes
The project i s important indealing with the critical situation within the banks. Serious losses have been
incurred which will ultimately have to be recognized by the owners o f the banks and paid for with
taxpayers money, With a need for fiscal resources to be increasingly devoted to poverty needs inthe
fields o f education, health, rural water, and enhanced infrastructure -it i s crucial that the losses inthese
banks be stemmed. Consequently, the on-goingbank reformprocess also has many important indirect
poverty alleviation implications over the mediumterm.

The project is also important inestablishing a better intermediationfunction withinthe banking system so
that funds can flow to their most productive economic use -thereby benefitingthe entire economy in
terms o fmore rational investment decisions, more sustained employment opportunities, increased
production and exports - and ultimately enhanced growth.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument
The project i s to be supported through an IDA Credit and Grant. An Investment operation was chosen as
the bulko fthe funds are to be passed on to two commercial entities, RBB and NBL. Onthe basis o f
financial data providedby the two banks, the amounts disbursed under the loan will be quickly recovered
through lower operating costs -the paybackperiod for the VRS schemes i s inthe region o f two to three
years -hence the return on the investment i s healthy. The grant component was included to ensure
compliance with HMGN'sForeign Aid Policy (2002) which, in Sections 7.4 through 7.6,specifies that
grant funds should be usedfor technical assistance inprojects.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators
The main objective o f the project i s to support the on-going efforts to develop a healthier financial sector
inNepal whichintermediates fundsmore efficiently and effectively to the benefit ofall segments of
society and ina manner which supports private sector development, increased investment, and faster
growth. These objectives will be achieved via a two pronged approach.

The first entails further strengthening o f the central bank o f Nepal (Nepal Rastra Bank) through an on
going program o f bank supervision strengthening; accounting and auditing development; human resource
re-engineering; information technology upgradation; and other support. The objective i s to also further
enhance the professional status o fthe central bank and its capacity to oversee the development o f a
prudently operated financial sector inline with its own medium term vision as enunciated inthe FSSS.
Key indicators will be a greatly enhanced capacity to supervise banks to international standards; ability to
produce its own accounts to international accounting standards (IAS); a small butmore efficient
workforce which i s appropriately incentivized and which operates in aprofessional manner; and a fully
computerized general ledger to improve management information systems withinthe bank.

The second prong involves a deepening o f the reformprocess within the two large banks so as to improve
their operational capacity and ensure that they operate on a more commercially orientedbasis. This will
permit their ultimate sale to "fit and proper" bank owners inthe private sector. The development
objective o f this component i s to substantially improve their operating capacity and commercial viability;
to move them as swiftly as possible into the private sector; and thereafter, develop the government's
oversight and supervisory capacity over them and other banking institutions. Key indicators will be the
ability to attract "fit and proper" buyers to purchase these restructured banks - and to ultimately privatize
the institutions.




                                                        5

3. Projectcomponents

The project has four main components (Table below).




Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS). The largest component is designed to support the VRS inRBB
and NE3Linan effort to reduce their costs and ultimately assist inmaking them more saleable/privatizable
institutions. The two main components o f highcost inthese banks have been identified as non-
performing loans and staff costs. The first o f these i s actively being dealt with by the new Managers in
these banks while the VRS will be supported under this project. The management teams each have a
Human Resource advisor who, as part o f their terms o freference, have identified redundant staff and have
designed VRS schemes. The launching o f these schemes inthe two banks was announced inSeptember
2003 and the first o f the retirees will leave the banks by the endo f 2003. Hence, this component is fully
designed and well under implementation.

Hiringof SalesAdvisors. The hiring o fthe Sales (Privatization) Advisors will not happenuntilayear or
so into the project when the banks are ina better financial condition and are therefore more viable
privatization candidates. These Advisors will undertake proper due diligence, prepare a prospectus for
the banks, and then undertake a road show to bringthem to the point o f sale to "fit and proper" private
sector buyers as rapidly as possible. This component (US$ 3.0 million) will be financed usingthe IDA
Grant component.

Phase11:On-goingNepalRastra Bank Re-engineering. The Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Project has commenced a process o f re-engineering within the central bank. However, reform,
revitalization, and professionalization are complicated, long-term tasks. Greatly enhancing the capacity
o fNRBto oversee a prudently operated banking system i s a prime objective o fthe series o freforms being
undertaken within the sector. Whereas the Phase Ireforms inbanking supervision have focused on
developing an appropriate off-site reporting system and a minimalist amount o f on-site bank supervisory
assistance, the Phase I1reforms will assist inaugmenting the on-site supervisory capacities to oversee the
commercial banks. The accounting component will assist NRB inmeeting the IMF's Safeguard
Assessment milestones, including the productiono f an international audit o f the bank's accounts to IAS.
The Human Resources (HR) reforms will buildupon the newly introduced HRpolicies, recent efforts by
the central bank to reduce overall staffing levels, and the development o f a new training planto help
move NRBtowards the establishment o f a more professionallymanaged staffing cadre. The Information
Technology (IT) component i s new (not covered inthe Phase Ireforms) but i s critically required as part
o fthe modernizationprocess within the bank. The technical assistance components (around US$4.0
million) o f the NRB Re-engineering will also be financed usingan IDA Grant.

ManagementTeam Support. It is agreed, that the two banks may not be privatizedby the time that the
current three year term o f the existing Management Teams expire (two years with a possible one-year
extension). It i s equally recognizedthat the banks should not revert to old management practices. It i s


                                                       6

therefore necessary to include fundingfor a contingency to cover the costs o f continuing management
team support up untilthe point o f privatization. It i s felt, however, that the pre-privatizationrestructuring
process will take longer than three years.

These components were establishedbasedupon the experience inother comparable projects (such as the
PakistanBanking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project). This experience has shown that, while
the agreed objective for banking sector restructuring worldwide i s to transfer ownership to "fit and
proper" private sector owners (ideally international banks), this i s difficult to achieve inSouth Asia.
Experience inthe region has indicatedthat private sector buyers, particularly o f the caliber and reputation
that one would like to attract, do not wish to be bogged down inthe process o f reducing staff numbers and
closing branches. Buyers have also indicatedthat a necessary prior condition i s to have credible accounts
and a basic computerized core banlung solution system inplace. Also core ina successful systemic
revitalizationof the banking sector i s a concerted and lasting improvement inthe quality andreach o f
banking supervision exercisedby the regulator to oversee the newly private banks. A substantive element
o f restructuringo f the NRB and training o f staff was included inthe FSTA, however, given the
importance, additional funds have been dedicated to this endinthis project.

4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The OED Performance Audit Report for the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2046-NEP),
M a y 17, 1995, concluded that: "The basic cause o fthe weakness o f the financial sector design [inthat
project] was:


(a)      Lack o f commitment by the Government to change its basic attitude towards the state-owned
         banks, including a much stronger emphasis on commercial orientationand on preparationfor
         eventual privatization;
(b)      Absence o f an Action Program didnot require the Government to introduce drastic changes inthe
         managerial culture to ensure that managers were professionals with autonomy and accountability;
         and
(c)      Lack o f specific fundamental reforms needed to achieve a major improvement in financial and
         operational performance o f the banks."

The current operation has dealt with these lessons by not proceeding with IDA financing untilthere has
been upfront action by the Government to carry out fundamental reforms inbanking supervision generally
and inthe governance arrangements within the state-owned, inparticular- starting with the placement o f
external management teams inthe two banks. The development of an overarching framework for
financial sector reform- as encapsulated inthe FSSS -has also helpedensure consistency and
commitment. Inaddition, the three-phase approach has been designed to build upon the strong
foundations o f the FSTA and has allowed HMGNample opportunity to demonstrate commitment to
reform and willingness to confront difficult issues. The Letter o f Financial Policies (see Annex 12) are
key recent steps that have been taken to strengthen the legal framework and also provides further
evidence o f the Government's strong commitment to reform inthis sector.

Inaddition, generic lessons learnedfrompreviousprojectsinthe financial sector include:


(a)      Sustainable banking sector reforms require that the autonomy and technical skills of the
         regulator be enhanced. Under the FSTA, steps havebeen taken to enhance the bank supervisory
         slulls o f NRB so that it can become increasinglyprofessional and autonomous;
(b)      The legal framework is critical to ensure successful implementation. The FSTA has supported
         the revision and modernization o f key banking legislation. A new NRB Act, a new Banking and
         Financial Institutions Ordinance, the establishment o f a Debt Recovery Tribunal, and a
         Blacklisting directive.


                                                       7

          Sequencingis important for successful financial sector reform. Partial strengthening o fthe
          CentralBank, has already been carried out as a precursor to this project, and continues to be a
          highpriority withinthe programo f commercialbanlungreform;
          Reforms should focus on a limitednumberof key activities. This project will support a
         purposely limited agenda o f focused activities;
          Forcingreformsfromoutsideis not sustainable. Strongborrower commitment produces the
          greatest chance o f success - a commitment evidenced by the FSSS, the appointment o f the
         management teams inthe banks, and the on-going close liaisonbetween NRB and the MoF;
         Re-capitalizingcommercialbankswithout fundamentalreformsinownership and
          governancestructuresis not likelyto besuccessful. Any injection o fcapitalinto RBB and
         NE3Lwill only be supported at the point ofprivatizatiodliquidation or some other acceptable
         change ingovernance arrangements inthese banks;
         Project componentswhich havebeenpre-designedand are already under implementationhave
         the greatest chances o f success. Inthis respect, the VRS -the largest monetary component o f the
         proposed project -has been completelypre-designed to a level acceptable to the World Bank, and
         i s currently being operationalized.
         Projectimplementationinitiallysuffers due to slow procurementand disbursement. Inthe
         past, under the FSTA, NRE!didnot have experience handlingBank procurement. This has been
         mitigatedby the recruitment o f a Procurement Expert.

5. Alternativesconsideredandreasons for rejection
An alternative approach to dealingwithNepal's financial sector problemscouldbe to pursue abroader
financial sector reform agenda on a wide range o f fronts to a large array o f institutions -particularly some
o f the other weak (but significantly smaller) privately-owned commercial banks and the two development
finance institutions. However, given the primacy o f the problems inthe Central Bank and the two largest
commercial banks, incombination with the Government's own limitedimplementation capacity, the
project team decided to focus on a narrower agenda o f issues. This limited and more focused agenda i s
likely to have the biggest impact.

Another option would have been to press for the immediate closure o f one o f the two troubled banks - or
for their merger. While the prospect for closure o f at least one o fthe two banks has purposefully been
retained within the program design, it has been recognized that given the severely challenged political
circumstances inthe country, it would be unrealistic to insist uponthis requirement. Ithas been ensured,
however, that the ability o f either bank to extend lending operations has been severely curtailed.

The possibility o f processing the project as an adjustment operation was also considered. However, it was
determined that an investment operation would achieve the objectives o f the project better as
disbursement would be tied strictly to full implementation o f the reformmeasures. Inaddition, there was
an important need for on-going technical assistance to ensure smooth implementation o f the project -
such as the sales advisors and the NRE!re-engineering technical support -which were better suited to an
investment operation.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements
The Department for InternationalDevelopment o f the UK (DFLD) i s a co-financier o f the on-going FSTA
(through a grant o f USSlO.0 million). While not financing the Phase I1operation, DFIDhas been closely
involved in all the design o f the current project and has contributed significantly to certain elements. The
Bank i s also working extremely closely with the IMF on the financial sector reform agenda -which
features prominently inthe Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility (PRGF). Close cooperation with the



                                                       8

ADB has also beendevelopedto ensure that the development bankreforms are carried out ina consistent
manner.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
Nepal Rastra Bank will be responsible for the implementationo f the project. This agency has been
selected due to its success inthis capacity inthe FSTA, and its established (albeit limited) cadre o f
competent and committed reformers and its central role within the Nepalese financial sector. As
institutional and implementation arrangements for the predecessor project have already been developed
withinNRBthese will continue to be usedto oversee the implementationofthe current operation.

FinancialManagement (FM). The Coordinationand Support Team (CST), inthe NRB,under the direct
supervision o f an executive director will be responsible for overall financial management activities under
the project. There are experienced FMstaff inthe CST and additional staff will be appointed to support
the FMwork under the proposed project. Utilization o f IDA'S share o f eligible expenditure will be
undertaken through a Special Deposit Account (SA), opened byNRB, under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The Executive Director (ED) will continue to work as CST coordinator inthe new
project and will be authorized to issue checks, make payment requests to the CST, and withdraw funds
from the IDA financing. The SA will be managed under the joint signature o f the ED and the FMexpert
with a provision for an alternate signature of another Assistant Director (finance).

For counterpart funding, HMGNwill ensure the timely release o f funds to the CST through a separate
project bank account. The weakness identifiedinthe FMassessment have been addressedby an agreed
time bound action plan.

3. Procurement
The procurement consultant currently contracted for the CST has sufficient skills for procuringgoods and
some hands-on experience with consultant selection contracts and IT procurement. However, the skills of
the staff supervising the consultant inareas such as consultant selection, contract administration
(especially o f consultant contracts) and overall project procurement monitoring may need upgrading.
This is important given that Phase I1calls for many significant novel consultant contracts whose selection
procedures, documents, etc. need to be carefully designed. NRB may consider solutions - such as
sending the CST staff for specialized training inconsultant selection and contract administration.

Continuation o fthe current Phase Iinto the proposed Phase I1entails the procurement related actions
described below.


    0    ContinuedManagement Support: It is vital to have experiencedmanagement teams inthe two
         banks untilthe process o fprivatization i s completed. Consequently, it i s suggested that on
         completion o f the current contracts funded from the on-going FSTA in 2005 and 2006, a new
         management contract be negotiated on a sole-source basis subject to justification or on a
         competitive basis, for the duration o f the proposed second phase (upto the point o f privatization).


    0    Procurementof computers,IT systems: As a part of the NRBre-engineering component NRB
         needs to acquire hardware, software and networking for the development o f its IT system.
         DuringPhase I, CST at the Central Bank, withthe guidance and assistance o fthe IT experts in
                         the
         the two management teams, successfully carried out an IT procurement for RBB and NBL. Thus
         it is consideredthat NRBhas the capacity to undertake itsremaining ITprocurement needs.
         While simple purchases such as computers and printers for Banking Supervision shall be
         procuredthrough NCB, given the estimated cost and complexity o f the items, procurement o f the
         ITplatform will be carriedout usingICBprocedures.



                                                       9

     0    Hiring of sales/privatization advisors: This is a large and complex contract and hence QBS
                                                                                                -
          or QCBS with a 70-30 split inthe technical/financial evaluation i s anticipated.

4. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults
 Short to medium-term success will be realizedwhen improved capabilities inRBB and NBLbegin to
exert competitive pressures for better banking services. The long-term success o f the project will be
realized, however, only when both RBB and NBLhave been sold to fit and proper private sector owners.
The price achieved for the banks will not be a factor in determining success, but the quality o f the buyer
will be important. This aspect will be monitored ina transparent fashion by the NRB and by the
privatization advisers recruitedunder the project. Separate indicators have been established and will be
separately monitored for the IDA Grant component (Please refer Annex 3).

Giventhe country's economic constraints, MoF's ForeignAid Policy does not espouse taking a loan to
finance TA components involving hiringo f intemational consultants. However, it i s essential that Sales
Advisors for privatization (component two) and Consultants for Phase I1NRBRe-engineering
(component three) be o f intemational caliber and hence, we have proposed to finance these components
by IDA Grant.

5. Sustainability
HMGNhas already demonstratedits commitment to take hardpoliticaldecisions inthe face ofthe need
to stem the growth o f non-performing assets within the two state controlled banks and the banking sector
as a whole. Working closely in accordance with the conditionality established for the IMF's PRGF the
govemment has already undertaken far reachinglegislative and regulatory reforms.

One factor which will be critical to the continued success o f the project will be for NRB to take necessary
steps, as per the proposed amendment o f Section 86 o f its Act, to deal with the existing private sector
shareholders. Steps to this end are currently inprogress - including the December de-listing o f NBL
shares from the Nepal Stock Exchange and an amendment to the Nepal Rastra Bank Act to give it greater
powers over troubled banks. It will also be critical to ensure that legislationpassed by ordinance i s not
subsequently revoked.

Close coordinationwith the IMF, DFID,the ADB, and the rest o f the donor community will also help
ensure that the reforms implementedwill remain inplace regardless o f changes in govemment (inthat
donor funding i s indispensable to support on-going development programs). Additional steps, including
enhancedreporting of the reform efforts and holding regular meetings with stakeholders, are under way to
ensure that there i s sufficient popular support for the reforms beingimplemented and that the value o f
these measures i s broadly understood across the political spectrum.

6. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects
The project is susceptibleto the followingkey risks:

                 Risks                                  RiskMitigationMeasures                         RiskRating
                                                                                                          with
                                                                                                        Mitigation
Political Given the fragile security
          -                                 The Bank has attempted to maintain good lines o f
situation and continuing political          communication with politicians across the spectrum.
uncertainty, there i s a possibility that   No single political group, including those o f the far left
the reformprocess may be stymied or         has indicated opposition to the restructuring o f the           M
reversed. At the extreme, the situation     distressed banks.
may deteriorate so as to severely           Overall political support is likely to continue since the
underminegovernment institutions.           project reflects HMGNIMoF's priorities on banking



                                                         10

                   Risks                                RiskMitigationMeasures                        RiskRating
                                                                                                         with
                                                                                                       Mitigation
                                           reform and i s strongly supportedby high level civil
                                           servants.


Bureaucratic or political interference ir  Appropriate recruitment and training procedures for
institutional change related to increase(  project personnel would be established, coupled with
transparency, stakeholder participation.   incentives to reward good performance.                          M
and decision making.                       Assurances are being sought from HMGNthat
                                           qualified key personnel will remain inplace during the
                                           lifetime o f the project.
Agitation from local advocacy groups       Efforts have beenmade to actively involve all
(labor unions, etc.).                      stakeholders, across all levels o f employees, to
                                           generate support and ownership.
                                           Ensuring that project design and implementation                 S
                                           adequately reflect people's needs; that transparency
                                           and accountability are addressed; and that
                                           interventions and outcomes benefit workers.

The VRS may fail. Inthe face o f           This component has already commenced and results
limited alternative employment             from the First Phase implementation indicate that
opportunities ina weak economy, bank       around 50 percent o f the designated staff have
employees may be unwilling to accept       accepted the VRS. A Second Phase i s expected to net            M

VRS terms - ultimately frustrating the     the remaining targeted excess staff.
privatization o f the banks.

Lack o f support from local and nationa    HMGNwill engage indialogue about soundbanking
government elites.                         practices. A multi-sector partnership betweenthe
                                           government, private banking sector, and media, and
                                           others i s required to facilitate public accountability         M
                                           measures to help build public pressure for more
                                           sustainable corporate practice.


Defaulters and other vested interests.     HMGNhas demonstrated increasedwillingness to
The process ofreformhurtsmany              confront vested interest groups. The recent
influential groups -particularly those     establishment o f the Debt Recovery Tribunals and the
who have habitually defaulted to the       new Blacklisting Directive are further evidence o f a            S
government banks or have benefited         commitment to fundamental reforms and a willingness
from poor standards o f governance.        to face up to vested interests.


Private shareholders o f NBLmay be         Trading o fNBL shares has been suspended with a
disruptive, NBL is only 41 percent         commitment to de-list from the Nepal Stock Exchange
owned by HMGN.                             (NEPSE). NRB has committed to take full control o f              S
                                           NBLusingenhancedpowers inthe NRBAct.


VRS Adverse Selection. There i s a risl    The management o f both banks maintain that the level
that severance packages may encouragc      o f overstaffing i s so high and the level o f expertise so
good performing staff to leave and         low that targeting is not required(although some staff
mediocre staff to remain in the banks.     will be encouraged to stay). The scheme i s also at the
                                           mutual consent o f both parties - hence bank                    M

                                           management can rehse an application from a
                                           particularly good performing staff member.




                                                         11

                    Risks                                 RiskMitigationMeasures                     RiskRating
                                                                                                        with
                                                                                                     Mitigation
i
VRS Overpayment. Retrenchment                Both RBB and NBLhave conducted personnel reviews
  rograms should first exhaust               to ensure that employees who have been improperly
  ossibilities for disciplinary actions and  hired (e.g. with forged education certificates) may not
 he elimination o f payroll fraud arising    participate inthe VRS. Based on this, both banks have       M

from ghost workers and improper              suspended a number o f employees.
  iring.

   oral Hazard. An important concern
lfor the Bank is to ensure that workers    I staff for the workers who accept the VRS. A survey ofl
  ho have received severance packages        all employees who leave the two institutions i s
         rehiredby the same enterprise   01  included inthe project. The Government has also
       ifitremains inthe public sector       signed a Letter o f Financial Sector Policy indicating      M
       the extent monitorable, by other      that it will privatize these banks at the end o f the
bublic sector institutions.                I restructuridg process.                                 I


RiskRating ;H(HighRisk),S (Substantial Risk), M(Modest Risk),N(Negligible Risk)

7. Loadcredit conditions and covenants
There i s no conditionality pertainingto this financing. Nonetheless, the understanding between the World
Bank and HMGN, and as laid out inthe Letter o fFinancial Policies, i s that Nepal Rastra Bank will
continue to exert full control over Nepal Bank Limitedunder Section 86 o f the NRB Act untilthe bank i s
privatized. HMGNwill also ensure that the existing shareholders o f NBL do not benefit from the
restructuringexercise and do not impede the restructuring process. The Govemment will ensure this by
maintainingthe suspension o f trading o f NBL shares untilprivatizationand ensure that the shares are
delisted from NEPSE by the end o f 2003; by writing down the capital o f NBLprior to privatization; by
divesting the shares of current shareholders to "fit and proper" persons; and ifwriting down capital i s not
possible -by moving with the process o f vesting NBLto a fit and proper institution.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic andfinancial analyses
Analysis undertaken by the Management Teams inbothRBB and NBLindicate that the payback period
from implementing the VRS i s about two years. This indicates an extremely good retum on the
investment from this credit -ranging from 48 to 59 percent per annum. These analyses are inline with
work undertaken on the cost-benefit experiences with VRS schemes inother banks inSouth Asia (Sri
Lanka, India, Palustan, Bangladesh) - and with VRS schemes instate-owned enterprises inthe region.
The 8-10 year payout to these bank workers appears to be large -but i s also consistent with other
experiences in South Asian public sector institutions which indicate that payouts are high, but payback
periods are extremely low.

2. Technical
Most o f the technical design work for the project has been undertaken by experts working inthe
ManagementTeams inthe two commercial banks, or by the re-engineering team operating inthe central
bank. These long term, experienced professionals have ensured the utmost care indesigning the best
possible technical solutions to the problems at hand.




                                                           12

3. Fiduciary
The proposed project has strengths inthe area o f financial management. The existing Financial
Managementexpert has familiarized himself with the World Bank's FMpolicy and procedures and he
will continue worlung inthe new project. Moreover, the need for additional support, inthe form o fa
finance  officer, has been identified- and he/she will be inplace by March 31,2004. The highlevel
commitment o fthe government and N R B ' s senior management to various reform activities will greatly
contribute to addressing any potential problems arising duringproject implementation.

A weakness is the inadequate logistical and other administrative support to the CST. The CST is
operating ina constrained environment with insufficient staff. Financial information i s maintainedin
spreadsheets, but there i s scope for computerization o f accounts to keep track o f project expenditures,
compilation, and reporting -but this will require additional staffing support. The CST plans to be
upgraded with additional computer equipment under the current Project. The other FMstaff are also well
conversant with the World Bank's FMpolicies and procedures. Overall, the FMarrangements for the
project are adequate at the initial stage o f project implementation. However, these needto be further
improved inthe areas indicatedinthe FMassessment to ensure a satisfactory FMsystem throughout the
project implementationperiod. Annex 7 includes a detailed FMassessment-with an Action Plan.

4. Social
The social implications o fthe implementation o f the V R S inthe banks could be considerable. While
there are no safeguardissues anticipated, there are likely to be important social impacts on the lives o f
those who choose voluntary retirement. These will vary according to the personal circumstances o f
individual employees. While the full range o f risks have yet to be determined, some potential risks
include: (i) inability o f employees to re-enter and compete inthe limitedjob market, either within a
              the
reasonable timeframe, or ina sustainable manner; (ii)       as most Nepalis still live inajoint family system
there will be socio-economic ramifications on a population exceeding the estimated 4,700 employees
who may choose to participate inthe VRS scheme'; and (iii)          many o f the more standard approaches to re-
training may not be an appropriate inthe local cultural context. For this reason, all initiatives taken to
mitigate potential adverse impacts have been developed keeping local circumstances in mind. The project
team i s working closely with DFIDto undertake an Exit Survey o f the workers leaving the banks. The
purpose o f this Exit Survey will be to understand notjust the economic, but also the socio-cultural
ramifications o f the project's affected population. This will then be followed by regular Social Traclung
Surveys on a sub-set o f retirees -undertaken every six months. These tracking methodologies will permit
the government, the banks, and the World Bank to have on-going feedback on the social impact o f the
implementation o f the VRS and to adjust policies accordingly. Inaddition, the project team has met with
focus groups consisting o fbank workers who have applied for the VRS - and the unions which represent
them - and have discussed their future needs ina post-retirement era.

5. Environment
There are no environmental issues arising from this project.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                        Yes                  N o
  Environmental Assessment (OPBP/GP 4.01)                                             [I                  [XI
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                        [I                  [XI

'While  the situation varies according to household, gender relations inNepal often entail a male family head who
has primary economic responsibly for his immediate as well as extended family members (that may include elderly
parents, cousins, and widows). It is not knownat this time the extent to which this is a pertinent issue or not.


                                                         13

  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                    [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                   [I                    [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                  [I                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   -[ 1                   [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            [I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [I                    [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [I                    [XI

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

(a)       Exceptions. Two exceptions to normal Bankpolicy have been agreed for the current project.
The first o f these i s the application o f 35 percent retroactive financing - above the normal 10percent
generally applied. This has been discussed and supported by Bank management. This exception i s
necessary to meet the VRS costs which are currently being incurred inadvance o fproject approval and i s
designed to support the current momentum for change which exists within the financial sector reform
process. The second issue (not really an exception) which i s also approved by Bank management -i s
financing o f the VRS within NBL (legally a private sector institution), on the basis that this institutioni s
effectively controlled by the Govemment (the central bank has replaced both the Board and the
Management o f this bank). The policy on VRS payments refers to control rather than ownership and
Nepal Bank Limitedmeets the test o fpublic control through the management and board. Inaddition,
however, NRB i s puttinginplace a series o fmeasures which will ultimately lead to the legal assumption
o f this bank. These measures include suspension o ftrading o f NBL shares on the stock exchange;
delisting o fthe shares from the exchange; amending the central bank act to provide it with greater powers
to deal with a troubled bank; writing down the capital o fNBLprior to privatization; and by ultimately
divestingthe shares o f current shareholders to "fit andproper" persons. Ifwriting down the capital
proves legally challenging, then NRB will altematively move ahead with the process o f vesting NBLto a
fit and proper institution.


@)        Readiness. The requirement for larger than normal amounts o fretroactive financing supports the
propositionthat the project already has an in-builtmomentum which the World Bank i s eager to support.
The VRS has been designed and i s already being implementedinadvance o f project approval. Other
components are also at an advanced stage o fpreparation and will be ready for implementation
immediately upon effectiveness. The NRBcomponents will follow on from the work already on-going
withinNRB.Consequently, the project is ready for immediate implementation and initial disbursements
should be highto cover payments made inadvance o fproject effectiveness.




'By  supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputed areas



                                                            14

                        Annex 1:Country andSector or ProgramBackground
                            NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

Country Background. Nepalremains one o fthe world's poorest countries, with an annual per capita
income o f about US$240 with many indicators showing a bleak quality o f life. Progress inthe fight
against poverty has beenhamperedby a number o f factors, including a succession o f unstable
Governments. More recently, the challenge has intensified with the continuing insurgency and lingering
instability inthe Government. Security concerns have been heightenedby the August 2003 collapse o f
the ceasefire agreed withthe insurgentsand there i s a fear o f wider civil disturbance. Together with the
global economic slowdown that has affected Nepal's trade-dependant economy harshly, these domestic
events have ledto a sharp downturn ineconomic activities. Related to this i s potential fiscal stress, as
public spending i s up on account o f security needs. Meanwhile, there i s widespread belief that the
insurgency i s fundamentally a challenge to a state that has not proved itself to be effective.

FinancialSector Background. Nepalhas 17 commercialbanks, 2 large banks (RBB andNBL)which
dominate the sector; 6 Joint Venture Banks, which are mixedNepaWforeignowned (this group being
constrained to a maximum 67 percent foreign ownership); and 9 local banks. Inaddition, the sector also
includes 2 large development banks -the Agricultural Development Bank o f Nepal (ADB/N) and the
Nepal IndustrialDevelopment Corporation (NIDC), 54 finance companies, 13 insurance companies,
numerous micro-finance institutions, 7 Grameen Replicator Banks, 35 financial cooperatives, 25 financial
Non-Government Organizations (NGO's), and a stock exchange. The two largest commercial banks -
Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL)- account for around 50 percent of total
banking system assets, and are ina very precarious financial position. Political intervention, weak
management, poor financial information systems, and a deeply entrenched culture o fnon-repayment o f
loans have resulted ina rapid deterioration of their financial health. RBB, which represents 27 percent o f
commercial banking system assets, i s estimated to have 71 per cent non-performing loans. Although in
slightlybetter financial condition, NBLhas similar problems including around 59 percent non-performing
loans. This could have serious ramifications for the Government interms o f systemic risk and could
prove to be a severe financial strain on an already delicate budget should either o fthese two banks face a
crisis o f confidence with concomitant adverse macroeconomic implications. The 2003 unaudited
accounts for RBB andNBLindicate that these two banks had estimated accumulated deficits, as o f mid-
2003, o f approximately $435 million - equivalent to around 7 percent o f GDP. BothNBL and RBB have
made significant progress inreducingtheir operating losses since professional management teams
assumed control o f their operations inmidand late 2002 respectively (supported by a World Bank Phase I
Financial Sector Technical Assistance (FSTA) credit).

It i s understood that the financial condition o f the two large development banks has deteriorated ina
fashion comparable to that o f RBB and NBL. The financial position o f ADB/Nand NIDC is currently in
the process o f being appraisedby the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and a restructuringplan for these
institutions will be put inplace, intime, supported by the ADB.

Ingeneral, Nepal's financial system suffers fromthe followingproblems that are alsorecognizedbythe
Government:

(a)       The Government'sRole. His Majesty's Governmento fNepal (HMGN) plays a large direct role
inthe financial sector. Fromownershipofkey financial institutionssuchas RBB,ADBN, the Grameen
banks, the largest insurance company, the stock exchange, the largest investment company, and, until
recently, Nepal Bank Limited (where it remains the largest single shareholder); to significant influence
over the Joint Venture Banks (where, untilrecently, the government nominated a director for each bank);
the Government's involvement i s evident inalmost every aspect o f financial sector activity. This has


                                                        15

resulted instrong political interference inbanlung activities which, inturn, has resulted innon-repayment
o f loans, and poor financial health throughout the system.

(b)      NepalRastraBank (NRB) -theCentralBank. UntilJanuary 2002, when a newNRBAct was
approved, the NRB fell under the authority o f the Ministryo f Finance. This historical lack o f autonomy
hinderedthe NRB's ability to supervise and regulate the banking system adequately. Political influence
inRBBandNBL-as well as their sheer dominance withinthe banking system-placedthesebanks
outside the influence and control o f the central banking authorities. Although still requiring significant
development in several material areas, the 2002 Nepal Rastra Bank Act provides the NRBwithbasic
autonomy. The full authority o f the NRB over the entire banking system has been further establishedby
the recent Cabinet approval o f the Banking and Financial Institutions Ordinance. Improvedbanking
regulations, now being implemented, have also providedthe regulatorybasis for NRBto move the system
closer to international banking norms while permitting the bank supervisors to deal expeditiously with
errant banks. The NRB i s supported inthis endeavor through a substantive program o f capacity building
from a resident team o f international banking experts supported under the Financial Sector Technical
Assistance Project.

(c)      RastriyaBanijyaBank(RBB) is 100percent Government owned. RBBis the biggestof
Nepal's commercial banks with deposits o f approximately Rs 40 billionrepresenting some 25 percent o f
the Nepali banlung system. RBB i s technically insolvent with highlevels o f non-performing assets
(NPAs). RBBhadanegative net worth estimated inthe regionofUS$300 million as o fJuly 2003. The
professional management team supported under the IDAFSTA Project commenced work inthe bank in
early 2003 - the new CEO, recruited on a fixed-term contract, joined the bank on January 16* 2003 but it
was not until late February 2003 that the rest o f the team followed him. Invariance to the original
concept, eachmember o f the management team has been hired individually.

As a consequence o fthe on-going insurgency, the number o fbranches has been reduced from more than
200 to around 130 nationwide and the total number o f staff inthe bank is being reduced from 5,522 to a
target figure close to 3,200 through a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) launched in September 2003.
At the same time aprocess o f computerizationis underway and some 42 branches are beingbrought
online usingthe IBIS core banking solutions system. RBB continues to suffer from a highpercentage o f
non-performing loans although performance inthis field i s improving under the guidance o f the new
management team.

(d)      NepalBankLimited(NBL). The financial conditiono fNBLhas also been significantly
impaired, but not to the same extent as RBB. NBLi s the second largest bank inNepal with deposits o f
Rs 35 billion. It is also the oldest bank inNepal, establishedin 1935. Originally, the Government owned
the entire bank but the government's shareholding was sold down throughout the 1990s to reach 41
percent. This disinvestment by HMGNwas carried out with the objective o freducingpolitical
interference inNBL's management and promoting private sector participationinthe bank so that it could
operate ina more commercial and business-like manner. The Government's policy o f successively
selling shares to the general public has, however, left the bank without a single strategic partner with a
strong background incommercial banking and international linkages with the global economy.
Connected lending activities by the new private owners are thought to have further compromisedits
operations.

Since the mid-1980s when the banking sector was opened up to foreign competition, NBLhas been losing
out to the newly establishedjoint venture banks. NBL's profitability has correspondingly declined. The
main reasons for this decline inprofitability have been: (i)  a deposit mix which involves a
disproportionately large share o f high-cost funds (ii) a large branchnetwork comprising various rural and
other non-profitablebranches throughout the country, (iii)    staffing levels which are inexcess o f actual


                                                       16

requirements, (iv) low recovery rates on loans, (v) manual accounting systems and inadequate
 automationcompared to the size o f operations, (vi) poor service delivery, and (vii) not being able to
respond to market demandtrends

Making use o f the support made available under the FSTA Project, HMGNdecided to bringin
professional management to take over control o f the bank. The Bank o f Scotland management team took
over the day-do-day runningo f NI3L inAugust 2002. Initial main areas o f focus for the new management
team have included, producing credible audited accounts for 2001 and 2002, designing and developing a
minimumInformation Technology (IT) platform for the bank, developingappropriate humanresource
policies for the staff, strengthening its treasury management function, and identifyingnon-performing
loans (NPLs) and establishing a loanrecovery unit to deal with these NPLs.

Through a voluntary retirement scheme, NBLi s inthe process o f reducingits payroll from 5,270 to a new
total o f around 3,000 employees. As with RBB, the branch network luns nationwide and i s being
rationalizedto a total modestly inexcess o f 100branches, 44 o f which arejust now coming online. The
management team has achievedreasonable success inthe recovery o fnon-performing loans - and
expectations on recoveries inthe current year are expected to be even more favorable. HMGNhas agreed
to reestablish control o f the bank to expedite the restructuring process and the process o f de-listing the
bank from the Nepal Stock Exchange i s under way as a first step to this end.

(e)       The Agricultural DevelopmentBank of Nepal(ADB/N). The financial andoperational
situation o f the ADB/N, the thirdbiggest bank inNepal, i s also extremely poor. The ADB/Nwill require
restructuring, system development, changes in governance arrangements, and a review o f its ultimate role
and ownership arrangements. Reforminthis bank i s being supported by the Asian Development Bank.
Close coordination between IDA and the ADB means that reforms made inRBB and NJ3L are likely to be
replicatedinADB/Nto ensure a consistency o f approach.

(f)       A Weak and FragmentedLegalFinancial Environment. Although recent progress inthis area
i s noteworthy, Nepal has historically suffered fi-om a proliferation o f both laws and regulations that are
institutionally rather than functionally focused. This has created a fi-agmented legal environment.


     0    The NepalRastra Bank Act, now superseded by a January 2002 Act, was seriously outdated
          and deficient with respect to issues o f central bank autonomy, accountability, and governance.
          N o w that new legislation has been approved, the challenge will be to ensure that NRB can
          effectively enforce the provisions enshrined inthe new legal and regulatory environment.

          The 1974 CommercialBank Act is also defective. Most importantly, the act does not cover all
          deposit-taking institutions. Other nonbank deposit-taking institutions are governed by their own
          laws (e.g., the Agricultural Development Bank Act o f 1967). A proliferation o f laws covering
          various classes o f deposit-takmg institutionshas permitted legal arbitrage. NRB has recently
          completed drafting a new Banking and Financial Institutions Act that covers all major deposit-
          taking institutions. This Act was approved by the Cabinet inOctober 2003.

          Ancillary Laws. Once the above two keypieces o f legislation are fully inplace, it will be
          important to ensure that other ancillary laws are developed in support o f a modem banking
          system. New legislation i s required insuch areas as Secure Transactions, Insolvency, and a new
          Company Act.

(g)       A Weak and FragmentedAccounting and Auditing Environment. A weak accounting and
auditing tradition has meant that the timeliness and reliability o f financial data (particularly from the
largest banks) i s extremely poor. Corporate sector accounting i s also weak, making lending decisions


                                                        17

difficult for the banks. IfNepal's financial system i s to operate ina prudentially sound and efficient
manner, strengthening o f accounting and auditing i s essential. The recent progress made, inthis respect,
withinthe two largest commercialbanks bythe newly institutedmanagementteams, is noteworthy.

(h)      Competitioninthe BankingSector. Reformo fthe state-owned banking sector isbeing
designed to reduce fi-agmentation and support the more efficient intermediationo f funds withinthe banks
and nonbanks. This will increase competitive pressures and thereby provide more efficient and
cost-effective solutions to the banking public.

(i) OtherIssues. Inadditiontotheabove, thefinancialsectorenvironmentneedstobestrengthened
inseveral fundamental ways. For example, credit information systemshavenotbeeneffectivetools
against non-performing borrowers; capacity buildinginthe sector remains very weak; the general public's
low level o f financial sophistication means that it does not serve as an effective check and balance within
the system; the Nepal Stock Exchange remains a weak and ineffectual institutionwithin the financial
system; and access to finance for many millions o f rural Nepalis still remains a critical lacuna. These
weaknesses also require attention, and call for urgent reformand modernization. Nepalneeds to create
the preconditions fgr the development o f an efficient banking system that i s capable o f developingnew
financing mechanisms and instrumentsto meet private sector needs. Without such reforms, the prospects
for faster growth and ultimately poverty reductionwill be constrained. However, financial sector
development i s a long and complex process that will take many years, particularly given the very low
starting point inNepal.


(j)      GovernmentStrategy. Over the past few years, the Government has undertaken generalreform
measures inthe financial sector. These include interest rate deregulation, the phase out o f Statutory
LiquidityRequirements (SLR), reductioninthe CashReserveRequirement (CRR); introductiono f
modem banking regulations, capital market reforms, and foreign exchange liberalization. However, much
still remains to be done, particularly with respect to institutional reform. To help establish a fi-amework
for the way forward, the Government formulated a Financial Sector Strategy Statement (FSSS) that
consolidates its thinkingand develops a comprehensive and interlinkedreformprogram. The FSSS has
been discussed widely within Nepal     - withinthe private sector and the financial sector - and it has been
adopted as Government policy. The FSSS was publicly releasedand published inthe Nepali and English
press at the end o f 2000. The desire for reforminthe financial sector i s further reflected by the fact that
the Governmenthas asked for, and secured, World Bank, IMF, and UK Department for Intemational
Development (DFID) assistance to proceedwith the reform agenda. Initial support has been provided
through the Financial Sector Technical Assistance credit, withjoint IDA-DFIDfinancing.

The main elements o f the FSSS sector strategy include (some o f which has already been implemented):


     0   Reducingthe role o f the Government inthe financial sector as a direct owner o f financial
         institutions while strengthening its role as a supervisor and regulator o f banks and financial
         institutions;
     0   Requiring strong corporate governance by ensuring that banks (inparticular the two largest
         commercial banks) are owned and managedby "fit andproper" private investors;
     0   Strengthening the role o fNepal Rastra Bank inthe overall financial system by drafting a new
         central banking Act to provide sufficient autonomy inthe conduct o f monetary policy, banking
         system regulation and supervision, and the licensing o f banks and nonbanks;
     0   Improving existingbanking and financial legislation andjudicial processes for enforcing financial
         contracts;
     0  Improving auditing and accountancy standards within the banking sector; and
     0  Promoting financial discipline through adequate disclosure and competition.



                                                       18

The reforms inthe financial sector, particularly with respect to the state-owned banks, require strong
political commitment. As inmany countries, bank restructuring issues are difficult. To date, the
Govemment o f Nepal has demonstrated a seriousness and commitment to the banking reform agenda and
has not wavered inmoving ahead with the difficult agenda at hand. Actions taken so far provide the
World Bank with comfort that the Govemment i s willing to transparently and decisively address the
issues at hand.

PROGRESSUNDERTHE FINANCIAL SECTORTECHNICAL ASSISTANCECREDIT

The FSTA, approved inDecember 2002, has three essential components. The first i s a Re-engineering
Team which has been placed into Nepal Rastra Bank, the second i s a professional Management Team in
Rastriya Banijya Bank, and the thirdi s a professional Management Team inNepal Bank Limited. The
NBLteamhasbeeninplace the longest (mid-2002) while the teams inNRBandRBBcommenced work
inearly 2003.

The re-engineering team inNepal RastraBank is considered extremely important as it is working on
professionalizingthe central bank and gettingthe bank to focus more on its core centralbanking
functions. Inthis process, the NRB,by its own volition, has reducedstaffing levels from around 2,400 to
a current level o funder 1,800. However, with only around 380 professional staff inthe bank, it still
remains highly overstaffed with under-slulled personnel.

NepalRastraBank. The Nepal RastraBankRe-engineering Team financed by the FSTA comprises:

        HumanResourceSupport. A HumanResources expert has beenplacedinthe bank inan effort
        to help with designing appropriate Voluntary Retirement Schemes to reduce staffing levels to
        more appropriate levels; to assist inthe outsourcing o fnon-core functions from the bank; to draft
        a new set o f "international best practice" HRpolicies for the staff which reward performance over
        time in grade; to draft job descriptions; to design a new salary and compensation package; and to
        help develop a more appropriate organization structure for the central bank. Most o fthese
        activities are on track.

        AccountingSupport. A team o f accountants has beenputinplaceto assist indrafting anew
        accounting manual for the central bank and to assist the Accounting Departmentbringthe
        accounts o fthe bank up to InternationalAccounting Standards. There are also issues o f
        timeliness o f accounts with which the team i s also assisting.

        BankingSupervisionSupport. The project also supports an On Site and an Off Site Bank
        Examiner to assist the Bank Inspections Departments (Bank and Non-Bank) bringtheir capacities
        closer to internationallevels. While the FSTA project has focused on RBB andNBLthere i s also
        a needto ensure that the other commercialbanks inthe system are operating prudently and inline
        with establishednorms. Developing the bank supervisory capacity o fNRB,however, is
        considered to be a longer term endeavor and additional substantive assistance will be provided
        underthe current operation.

        Oversight ofthe Two Management Team Contracts. Inthe absence o f a capacity to take over
        the two large troubled banks (RBB and NBL)as a conservator, the Nepal Rastra Bankhas
        employed the services o f two professional management teams. However, given limited capacities
        withinNRB,it also requires assistance inoverseeing the work o fthese two management teams.
        The experienced banker inthis position i s meant to provide the liaison and oversee the work o f
        the two professional management teams; to ensure that they meet their agreed performance



                                                      19

         benchmarks; that they report on a timely basis; and undertake all contractual agreements as
         required. This support to NRB i s designed to assist the central authorities oversee these two
          contracts ina rigorous and professional manner.

Some o f the notable milestones that have been achieved are cabinet approval o f Banlung and Financial
Institutions Act and amendment o fNRBAct that empowers the CentralBank to take action against
troubled banks; development o f a stronger blacklisting mechanism and better equipped Credit
Information Bureau; formation o f a DebtRecovery Tribunal; formulation o f a two-year program o f on-
site supervision o f commercial banks; production o fNRB accounts as per statutory requirement;
adoption o f a new organization structure and a revisedHRPolicy; and reduction in staffing from 2,400 to
around 1,700.


Rastriya Banijya Bank and NepalBank Limited. The two management teams include eight
professionals -roughly split 50/50 between foreigners and Nepalis. The positionsheld inboth
institutions are (a) Chief Executive Officer; (b) Chief Credit Officer; (c) LoanRecovery Officer; (d) Chief
HumanResources Officer; (e) Chief Information Technology Officer; (0Chief o f Treasury; (g) Chief
Audit Officer; (h) Chiefo fInternal Audit; and (i) ofBranchOperations. The follow describes some
                                                      Chief
o f the progress made withinthese two banks with respect to the restructuring process.

(a)      Financial Health of the Banks. Under the stewardship o fthe two management teams both
         banks have made significant progress inimproving their financial position as well as reducing
         operating losses. Froma loss inexcess o f Rs 3.0 billion in2001/02, NBLhas managed to reduce
         losses to Rs 281million in2002/03 -remarkable by any standard. NBL i s confident that they
         can make an operating profit in2003/04. Its costlincome ratio improved from 455 percent in
         2001/02 to 125 percent in2002/03. Whilst the NPA level remains high(58 percent as o f July
         2003), it has recovered Rs 2.7 billion worth o f non-performing assets, as cash recoveries, since
         taking over the management and has created adequate provisions to cover loan losses. However,
         total net worth i s still negative Rs 10billion ($135 million).

          Similarly RBB's operating loss has been reducedfkom Rs 7 billion to Rs 4.8 billion over the
         same period. Although RBB'sNPA level remains higher (71 percent as o f July 2003), it has
         recovered Rs2.0 billion o f non-performing assets since the change o f management. It still has a
         large negative worth o f Rs 22.4 billion ($300 million). The combined capital shortfall o f the two
         banks i s Rs 32.4 billion ($435 million) - inline with previous upper estimates. As inthe case o f
         NBL,RBB has createdadequateprovisionsto cover loanlosses andits costhcomeratio
         improved from a negative number (-433 percent) to a positive number (+1,740 percent).

         However, it i s understood that the two banks have witnessed a slow down inrecoveries over the
         past two months - as easier loans are recovered and the harder recoveries become "the norm".


@)       NPAs, Debt RecoveryProcedures,and Blacklisting. Highlevels o fNPAs continue to be o f
         concern despite the progress that has been made with loanrecoveries. Unless the recently
         established Debt Recovery Tribunals (DRT) are made more effective intheir approach and
         blacklisting regulations are adhered to infull spirit, it would be unreasonable to expect significant
         improvement inNPA levels. Further strengthening of the DRT and possible modifications o f the
         Blacklisting Directive are likely to be necessary ifthese institutions/instruments are to be
         rendered effective. Inaddition, the banks mustbe encouraged to take cases to the DRT-to
         assess their functioning and to indicate where more assistance may be required to strengthen their
         functionality. The publishingo f defaulter's names inthe newspapers i s a recent innovation which
         has also had some beneficial impacts interms o f improving recoveries.


                                                       20

(c)  Accounts for 2002/03 for bothbanks are nearingcompletionand are expected to be submitted in
     December 2003, five months from the report date -incompliance with NRB guidelines. This i s
     a considerable achievement considering that RBBhadnot produced any published accounts for
     the past seven years and NBLhadnot produced accounts for the past three.

(d)  InformationTechnology. Bothbanks are inthe process of establishinga minimalist Information
     Technology platform. An almost complete absence o f computers inthese two banks means that
     data collection and Management Information Systems are extremely weak. NBLi s well
     advanced inprocuring such a system and hopes to commence installation inearly 2004. RBB i s
     inthe process ofevaluating bidsand hopes that aselection andrapidinstallationcantake place
     thereafter. Ithas been decided to only introduce a minimalist platform as the new buyers o f the
     banks may well wish to install their own hardware and software systems.

(e)  Voluntary Retirement Schemes-StaffRight Sizing. Bothbanks announcedtheir VRS
     schemes in September 2003 and closed them inthe early part o fNovember. Under pressure from
     the labor unions, the management teams (in consultation with the central bank), agreed to
     improve the severance package paid to employees duringthe last week that the schemes were
     open. InRBB,o f the eligible 1,5 15 workers (at endDecember 2002), 150hadretired as per the
     bank's normal retirement policy - and o fthe 1,350 remaining, the bank receivedapplications
     from 1,244. This represents a highly satisfactory take-up o f 92 percent. RBBplans to introduce a
     second phase VRS next year so as to affect further reductions in staffing levels. This second
     phase will apply to staff with 15-19 years of service - 1,578 staffers. Around 1,140 are expected
     to participate in the scheme duringthe secondphase, bringingthe total number o fretirees to
     2,384 which represents 77 percent o f the total eligible employees o f 3,093.

     The cost estimate for RBB's VRS i s Rs 2,594 million ($35.0 million) - which does not include
     the payment that RBBmust make to its employees under its provident fund scheme upon
     termination o ftheir service -Rs 179 million. Also excluded i s the payment that RBB must make
     to its employees for unusedhome leave (up to120 days) and sick leave (15 days per year) which
     can be commutedto cash upon termination o f service -Rs 100 million. Including these two
     elements, the cost o f the severance package increases to Rs 2,873 million ($38.8 million). These
     latter two components will be covered by HMGNrather than the World Bank.

     InNBL,ofthe 2,561 eligible employees with20 or moreyears ofservice, 1,458 submitted
     applications. Inview o f a lower than anticipated number o f employees talung up the VRS, NBL
     decided to conduct a second phase VRS targeting staff with 15-19 years o f service (2,131). A
     total o f 853 are expected to participate inthe scheme during the secondphase, bringingthe total
     number o fretirees to 2,3 11.

     The cost estimate o fNBL's VRS stands at Rs 1,594 million ($21.5 million). This calculation
     does not include the payment that NBLmust make to its employees under the provident fund
     scheme upon termination o f service   - Rs 366 million. It also excludedis the paymentthat NBL
     must make to its employees for unusedhome leave (upto150 days) and sick leave (12 days per
     year) which can be commuted to cash upontermination o f their service -Rs 77 million.
     Including the two cost elements, the cost o f the severance package increases to Rs 2,037 million
     ($27.5 million). Again, the World Bank will not cover these latter two elements which will also
     become the Borrower's contributionto the project.

     The following table compares the two Voluntary Retirement Schemes inthe two banks.




                                                   21

                              VOLUNTARY RETIREMENTSCHEMES
                            InRastriyaBanijyaBank andNepalBank Limited

                                    NepalBank Ltd.        Rastriya Banijya           TOTAL
                                                                 Bank
 Current Staff Strength                    5,270                 5,522                10,792
 RequiredStaff Level                       2,959                 3,200                 6,159
 VRS target                                2,311                 2,384                4,695
 Eligiblefor VRS                           2,561                 3,093                 5,654
 Total VRS Cost                        Rs 2,037 mill         Rs 2,873 mill          Rs 4,910 mill
                                        ($27.5 mill)          ($38.8 mill)          ($66.4 mill)

 PhaseI-No. o f staff                    1,450 staff           1,200 staff          2,650 staff
 PhaseI- Cost                          Rs 1,528 mill          Rs 1,645 mill        Rs 3,172 mill

 PhaseI1-No. o f staff                    861 staff            1,184 staff          2,045 staff
 PhaseI1- Cost                          Rs 509 mill           Rs 1,229 mill        Rs 1,738 mill

 Average Cost per Employee               Rs 881K               Rs 1,205K            Rs 1,046K
                                         ($11,911)             ($16,287)             ($14,133)
 Annual Savings after VRS               Rs 197mill            Rs 248 mill       Rs 445mill($6.0mill)
                                        ($2.7 mill)            ($3.3mill)
 Staff Expense (FY 2002103)            Rs 1,006 mill           Rs 787mill       Rs 1,793 mill($24.2
                                        ($13.6 mill)          ($10.6 mill)             mill)
 Eligible Age                              Open                  Open
 Eligibility service (years)                >15                   >15
 ImpltmentationProcess                  Two Phases:           Two Phases:
                                    Phase I: >20 years    Phase I:>20 years or
                                     or more o f service     more o f service
                                     Phase11: 15 - 19       Phase 11: 15 19
                                                                          -
                                      years o f service.    years o f service.
 Equivalent months'pay                      100.2                 130.6
 (Average)
 Cost Structure (Average)            Gratuity: 33.7 %        Pension: 48.2%
                                    Retirement : 24.5%      Insurance: 23.4%
                                     Incentive : 20.0%     Incentive: 18.7 %
                                      Provident Fund:     Provident Fund: 5.5%
                                            18%           Leave Encash: 4.2%
                                    Leave Encash: 3.8%
 Exclusion                             No particular          No particular
                                     positions specified   positions specified
 Mode o f Payment                   One-time lump sum     One-time lump sum
                                                           except for pension
                                                                portion.
 E t afrom Nepal Rastra Bank exclu ?sCosts associated wi
encashment.




                                                      22

          Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                             NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

 The on-going FSTA project (co-financed by DFID)was approved by the Board on December 19,2002.
 This project i s the first phase (Phase I)f three sequential phases designed to implement a comprehensive
                                           o
 financial sector reformprogram. This sequential approach has been endorsedby the International
 Monetary Fund(IMF), the Department for InternationalDevelopment (DFID) U.K.,and the Asian
 Development Bank (ADB). Ofthe total FSTA financing o fUS$30.1 million, IDA has extended a credit
 o f US$16.0 million and DFIDhas provided a grant o f US$lO.O million, while the remaining fundingi s
 from the Government o fNepal.

 Specifically, the project focuses on (i) to restructure and re-engineer the Central Bank (Nepal
                                          helping
 Rastra Bank -NRB), so that it can effectively perform its key central banking functions; (ii)  commencing
 commercial banking reform inthe two large ailing commercial banks that dominate the sector Rastriya
 Banijya Bank (RBB) and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL)-by introducingstronger external bank
 management that protects the financial integrity o f the two banks and takes on a conservator role to
 prepare the banks for the next steps o frestructuring; and (iii)
                                                                supporting a better environment for financial
 sector reform inareas such as enhanced credit information, better financial news reporting, andbetter
 training for staff infinancial institutions.

 The latest ImplementationPerformance and Development Outcome ratings as per the Project Supervision
 Report dated July 25,2003 are given below:



 Summary Ratings:                  Last      Now     Compliance with Agreed              S         S
 Achievement o f PDO                 S         S     Procurement Schedules
 Implementation Progress             S         S     Quality and Reliability             S         S
                                                     o f Procurement Admin.
 Other Ratings:                                       Safeguard Mgt Performance          S         S
 FinancialManagement                 S         S     Other Legal Covenants               S         S
Financial Performance                S         S     WID Impact                        NA         NA
Project Management                   S         S     Monitoring& Evaluation              S         S


Asian DevelopmentBanklendingfor the development o fNepal's financial sector has traditionally
 focused on rural finance -mainly through the Agriculture Development Bank o fNepal (ADBN)- and
micro finance. The ADB has recently completed a diagnostic o f the ADBN (and the NIDC) and intends
to implement a program o f restructuringwithin these two institutions, similar to the one supported by the
World Bank inRBBand NBL. On-going ADB technical assistance inthe sector supports the reform
process bybuildingthe accounting and auditingprofessionthrough the strengthening o f the Institute o f
Chartered Accountants o fNepal (ICAN), reform o f company law, development o f legislation for
insolvency and secured transactions, and creating a focal point withinthe Ministryo f Finance (MoF) to
sustain the momentum and augment capacity for financial sector reform.

ADB's support is through the on-going Corporate &FinancialGovernance (CFG) Projectthat aims to
improve transparency, accountability and basic financial sector infrastructure, comprising (i)
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework, accounting standards and sector policies; (ii)
supporting key sector regulatory and supervisory institutions; (iii) enhancing the capacity o f the legal and
judicial system for proper enforcement and dispute resolution; and (iv) improving the environment for
I C T infrastructure for payments, information disclosure, and financial service delivery. Inaddition, the



                                                      23

project will initiate work on developing selected market participants to play a better role inthe financial
system. To cover these assistance areas, the project blends loans (US$7.6 million) and technical
assistance (TA) grant funds (US$6.0 million) focusing on governance inthe corporate sector as well as
non-bank financial institutions, including rural finance and capitalmarkets.




                                                     24

                          Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                        NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

                                         ResultsFramework

                                                                                      UseofOutcome
                                                                                        Information
To improve corporate                                                               Improve regulatory
governance through provision of    c o k p t i o n i s suspected, referredto the   regime.
management support to the two      Commission for the Investigationo f the
large commercial banks.            Abuse o f Authority (CIAA).

                                   Establishment and commenced operation o f
                                   Debt Recovery Tribunals and Appellate
                                   Tribunal.

                                   Enforcement o f the Blacklisting Directive.

To improve market structure by     Retrenchment o f staff o fNBL and RBBby         Prepare the two banks
reducingthe state-owned            40 percent and rationalization o fbranch        for privatization.
segment o f the banking system.    networks to reduce cost structure.

                                   Outsourcingo f non-core activities.

                                   RBBand NBLprivatized.
To sustain and deepen the          Enhanced Supervisory and Regulatory             To takeprompt
banlungreforms.                     Capacity at NRB.                               corrective action with
                                                                                   respect to troubled
                                                                                   banks.
Indicators in bold italics will befinanced by thegrant. Other indicators will befinancedfrom             ~~




the credit.

 ComponentsFundedby IDA Credit




RBBandNBL.                         to less than 20 percent.                        reduction measures.




central banking responsibilities.




                                                        25

                                 further deterioration in asset quality of    management teams.
                                 existingportfolio.

                                 ImprovedOperatingResults with a positive
                                 cash flow.

                                 More than 50 percent o f the customers to
                                 have access to branches that operates with
                                 on-line system.

                                 Production of Quarterly Financialswithin
                                 one month and audited Annual Financials
                                 within five months.

                                 Better, cheaper, andor more diversified
                                 range o f banking services.

Components Fundedby IDA G nt


Component Two: Sales
Advisors
Assistance inthe ultimate        Negotiationsfor sale of NBL and RBB          To ensure that banks
privatization of the two         commenced withpre-qualijied strategic        are sold to "Fit and
commercial banks.                investors.                                   Proper ''Bankers.
ComponentThree: PhaseI1of
NRBRe-engineering
More efficient discharge of      Reduction in Non-Professional to             Design the Third
central bankingresponsibilities. Professional Staff Ratio to 2:l.             Phase of NRB Re-
                                                                              engineering.
                                 Adoption of revised organization structure
                                 and revised HR Policies. Merit-based over
                                 Seniority-Based Promotion.

                                 On-Site bank supervision reports that are of
                                 international standardproduced within a
                                 quarter after completion of bank
                                 examination and a cycle not exceeding two
                                 yearsfor each commercial bank.

                                 Prompt action taken against troubled banks
                                 that do not meet statutory and regulatory
                                 requirements.

                                 NRBAccounts produced to international
                                 accounting standards within the statutory
                                 timeframe. External audit of NRB by an
                                 International Firm for FY 2003.




                                                 26

     2z   d
          4u                   2z




     X    X                    X


     X    X              X     X


     X    X               X    X


X    X    X     X    X         X


X    X    X
                X    X         X

          X    X


     X    X    X


     X    x    X


X         X


X         X

                                 Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                           NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

The proposed project includes four project components.

Project Component 1-US$ 56.5 million

VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT SCHEME (VRS). The performance o fNBLand RBBhas partly been
constrainedby costs exceeding income, with highstaff expenses a main contributing factor. It i s
therefore critical that these banks down-size to more sustainable levels. The project would assist the
restructuringefforts inthe two banks that would lay the foundation for them becomingprivatizable assets.

On September 15 and 17,2003, respectively, RastriyaBanijya Bank (RBB) andNepal Bank Limited
(NBL)-withagreement fromthe Ministryof.FinanceandNepalRastraBank (NRB)-announcedtheir
respective VRS schemes. Whilst the schemes were open for up to a month, the management o f these two
banks agreed (with the Labor Unions o frespective banks) to extend the application deadline by another
three weeks to a month to accommodate the Tihar festival holiday period inlate October. The staff who
have already submittedtheir applications should be able to start retiring from the banks as early as
December 2003. Some staff will, however, be requestedto stagger their departure dates so as to ensure a
smooth transition for these institutions.

Out o f 5,522 staff, RBB expects to retire 2,384 staffwith an average payout to staff o f US$ 16,287. NBL
(with 5,270 staff) has targeted 2,311 stafffor retirement at a cost o fUS$ 11,911 per employee. The
difference inthe average payouts between the two banks represents different age and time-in-position
employee profiles inthe two banks rather than a fundamental difference betweenthe schemes being
offered. The average payout per employee represents 100 months salary for NBLand 130 for RBB.
However, the actual incentive (over and above requiredpayouts) inthe VRS package i s only 20 percent in
NBLand 19percentinRBB. The total cash outlay for theVRS operation for the two banks is estimated
to be US$ 66.3 million out o f which the World Bank with financ.e US$ 56.5 million.

RBBhas plannedthe VRS operation intwo phases with the first phase targeted at those who havehad
more than 20 years o f service followed by those with between 15-19 years of service. Although NBL
originally targeted only those with more than 20 years o f service, it i s now highlylikely that those staff
with 15 to 19years o f service (and even less), will also betargeted ina secondphase.

ProjectComponent2 -US$3.0 million [ofwhich US$3.0 millionis anIDA Grant]

HIRING OF SALESADVISORS: The thirdcomponent o fthe proposedproject involves the hiringof a
Sales Advisor (Privatization Advisor) to help sell the banks to "fit and proper" owners towards the end o f
the bank restructuring process. This could happen sooner or later depending upon the progress made by
the management teams inrestructuringthe two banks andor the potential interest by outside parties in
purchasing the institutions. Inall likelihood, however, the Sales Advisor would not be recruited for one
to two years after significant progress hadbeen made with the restructuringprocess. Their role would be
to prepare a sales prospectus for the banks, undertake a road show to sell these institutions and take them
through to the point o f privatization.

ProjectComponent3 -USS8.0 million [ofwhich USS4.0 millionis anIDA Grant]

SECONDPHASEOF NEPALRASTRABANK (NRB) RE-ENGINEERING: The CentralBank o f
Nepal, continues to be a weak institution requiring strengthening o f all its core functions. NRE3 has



                                                     29

requested continued support for its on-going re-engineering to buildupon the progress made to date under
the FSTA credit. This assistance will be provided inthe following areas: (i)   humanresource re-
engineering; (ii)accounting support; (iii) supervision and regulation; and (iv) Information
                                          bank
Technology (IT) up-gradation.

(a)    HumanResourceRe-engineering. Humanresource re-engineering is at the heart o f
       institutional reforminNRB. Ofprime importance i s the adoption o f a new organizational
       structure within the bank. Considerable progress has been made inthis regardand a new
       simplified structure i s to be adopted in early 2004. However, the bank will require on-going
       support to assist it inimplementing its new HRpolicies which emphasize merit-based
       advancement over the time-in-grade criteriatypically used in South Asian public sector
       institutions. Further development o f the training plan and its implementationwill become an
       important focus o fthe Phase I1program o f support.


(b)    AccountingSupport. The NRB is making goodprogress inadoptingInternational Accounting
       Standards (IAS). Two key actions required for the immediate future are revision o fthe
       Accounting Manual to reflect U S , and the external audit o f the NRBby a well recognized
       international accountancy firm. These activities will be supported under the Phase I1project.

(c)    BankSupervisionandRegulation. The bank supervision department is makinggoodprogress
       inundertakingon-site examinations ofthe 15 commercialbanks-not includingRBBandNBL.
       In2001/02, HimalayanBankwas examinedbyNRB. In2002/03, LaxmiBank,NepalInvestment
       Bank, Everest Bank, Nepal Industrial and Commerce Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, Bank o f
       Kathmandu, and Siddarth Bank were examined. In2003/04 the plan i s to examine Nepal Bank
       Limited, RastriyaBanijya Bank, Nabil Bank, Nepal SBI Bank, Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Nepal
       Credit and Commerce Bank, LumbiniBank, Macchapuchere Bank, and Kumari Bank. However,
       this ambitious schedule o fbank examinations is hamperedbyyoung andinexperiencedbank
       examiners who have to be nurturedby their more experienced colleagues. With three bank
       examination teams out at any one time, and with approximately two experiencedNepali bank
       examiners ineach team o f six, both the bank examination report and the training component o f
       these exams i s severely hampered. As a result, examinations take an unduly long time to
       complete and the reports take several months to reachthe Board o fNRB where they can further
       wait for a further two to three months before they are discussed. The end results are long delays
       and out-of date reporting. A final problem lays with a lack o f follow up on actions where
       deficiencies ina particular bank are uncovered by the examiners.

       The Phase I1project will provide enhancedtechnical and physical support for the work o f the
       department inthe form o f additional desk top computers, lap top computers for on-site examiners,
       intemational experts to assist with on-the-job training (for the complete two year examination
       cycle o f all the commercial banks), and classroom training inareas relatedto bank supervision,
       computing, and English(report writing).

(d)    InformationTechnologyUp-Gradation.A lack o f computerizationindepartments frombank
       supervision, to accounting, to banking operations, has hampered the efficient functioning o f the
       central bank. Operatingwith DOS based systems and an IT department which i s developing its
       own software rather than purchasing customized software offthe shelf, the bankrequires serious
       investment inup-dated IT systems, including the purchase o f a computerized General Ledger
       system for the institution. An IT Specialist i s being recruited to assist indesigning this
       component with fundingfrom the FSTA project. This subcomponent will be financed by an IDA
       Credit.




                                                     30

The costing o f components for the Phase I1Nepal Rastra Bank re-engineering i s therefore based on the
following cost table




ProjectComponent 4 -US$6.0 million

MANAGEMENT TEAM SUPPORT: This component providesfundingfor continuous Management
Team support (at NBLand FU3B) prior to their privatization. Whereas the Management Teams are
currently working on a two year plus one (2+l) contract, privatization could feasibly take longer than this
to achieve. Reverting to poor management before privatization would result ina loss o f the good
investment which has taken place so far inthese banks. Consequently, this component i s intended to
maintain the banks under full profession management from the end o fthe third year o f the Management
Team contracts through to full privatization without any breaks.




                                                   31

                                    Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                         NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject


                        ~
                                                          Local            Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component andor Activity               TTC Qm;ll;fi.\n 1
                                                           rylllllllull   US $million U S $million
Voluntary Retirement Scheme                               56.50              0.00        56.50
Hiringof SalesAdvisors                                      0.00             3-00         3.OO
NRE3 Re-engineering (Phase 11)                              1.00             7.00         8.00
On-going Management Team Support                            0.00             6.00         6.00




Total Baseline Cost                                       57.50             16.00        73.50
 Physical Contingencies                                     0.00             1.20         1.20
 Price Contingencies                                        0.00             0.80         0.80
                                  TotalProject Costs      57.50             18.00        75.50
                           Interest duringconstruction
                                        Front-endFee
                           TotalFinancingRequired         57.50             18.00        75.50




                                               32

                                Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                          NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

The Coordination and Support Team (CST) that has been formed within Nepal Rastra Bank inthe Bank
and Non-Bank Financial InstitutionRegulations Department, under the FSTA, will continue to administer
this project. The ExecutiveDirectoro fthis department heads the CST andprovides overall guidance and
leadership on matters o f project implementation. The CST i s supported by a dedicated Financial
Management Specialist who i s a qualified professional accountant and by a dedicated Procurement
Specialist. The CST i s also supported by adequate ancillary staff and facilities. Operatingcosts o f the
CST will be funded under the FSTA on a declining cost basis over the project implementationperiod.
These operating costs include communications, office supplies and materials, incremental staff costs, and
other expenses which will bejointly financed by the IDA Credit and the DFID Grant. Staff salaries are
excluded (except for the consultant procurement officer).

The restructuringmeasures will be coordinatedby the Ministryo f Finance (MoF) and Nepal Rastra Bank
(NRE3). RastriyaBanijya Bank (RBB) andNepal Bank Limited (NBL)will be responsible for the design
and implementation o f their respective Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS) -which i s the main
expenditure under the project.

NRBandthe MoFwill beresponsible for implementingthe requiredstepsto bringthe two banks to the
point o f sale and for identifying bona fide strategic investors inparallel with the restructuringexercise
currently being undertaken by the professional management teams. The NRB and MOF will be assisted
by the Sales Advisor engaged under the Project to implementthe individual sale transactions. The MOF
will coordinate the selection process withNRB,the bank regulator and supervisor, to ensure that the
process results inthe selection o f qualifiedbuyers who have the required integrity, capital, banking
expertise, technology, and management. The NRB will be responsible for clearing potential buyers and
their proposed management teams inaccordance with established selection criteria and banking
regulations.

The MOF will also be responsible for taking steps to amend Article 86 o fthe Nepal RastraBank Act to
provide NRB sufficient powers to rehabilitate and restructure the institution and for coordinatingwith the
Securities Board and the Nepal Stock Exchange to arrange for NBL shares to be de-listed from the stock
exchange.

The NRB will be responsible for designing a program o f on-going re-engineering o f the central bank to
builduponthe progress made to date underthe FSTA. The NRBwill be assistedby experts in the areas
o f human resource, accounting, bank supervision and regulation, and information technology.

The M o F and NRB will be the implementingagencies for the restructuring and other policy reforms
supported by the proposed project. The ICC/Bank o f Scotland i s expected to provide management
support for NBLand the team o f individual consultants for RBB duringthe remainder o ftheir term (two-
year term with an option for one-year extension). Continued management support beyond the three year
period will be overseen by NRB.

The project will be implemented over a five-year period (2004-2008) with the bulk o f loan proceeds
(US$56.5 million or close to 75 percent) disbursed in2004 and 2005 to finance the VRS o f the two banks.
The costs o f Sales Advisors, Phase I1NRB re-engineering, and the on-going Management Team support
will be spread over a four-to-five year period.

WhilstNRBwas the only implementingagency for FSTA, MoF andNBL/RBBare active participants.



                                                       33

For the proposedproject, all these agencies -NRB, MoF, and RBB/NBL will have implementation
responsibilities.




                                                 34

               Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
              NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject(Phase I1Reforms)

Summary of ProjectDescription: The proposedcredit is a secondphaseproject o fthe on-going
Financial Sector ReformProject (Phase I).     The project implementation arrangements under the current
project will continue inthe next phase. The financial management (FM) assessment has been carried out
aiming at (i) reviewing current project FMarrangements, including weaknesses, and (ii)      proposing
arrangements for improved financial management. One o f the key objectives o f the proposedproject i s to
provide further assistance to improve N R B ' s accounting, reporting and auditing standards and make them
I A S compliant within a reasonable time-frame. The project activities are grouped under four broad
components. The details o f the components and their sub-components are described inAnnex 4 o f the
PAD.

CountryIssues: The IMF's SafeguardAssessment o fthe financial sector identifiedinstitutional
weaknesses inthe area o f financial management and the IMF has been working with NRBtowards
improving financial management through an agreed actionplan. The ongoing project includes a
component which has been addressingN R B ' s current weaknesses inthe area o f accounting, reporting,
extemalhnternal audit and training. The proposed IDA grant will further compliment the on-going FM
reforms inNRB and would further strengthen its FMcapacity inline with international standards. The
component for Phase I1NRBre-engineering includes a revision o f the Accounting Manual to reflect I A S
requirements, extemal audit by an internationallyreputed audit firm, installation o f a computerized
accounting system, and training. These actions will greatly contribute towards improving overall FM
systemwithinthe NRB.

Adequacy ofFMarrangements: The CST under the direct supervision o f an Executive Director within
NRBhas been functioningwell inthe on-going project. The CST will be further expanded inthe
proposed project with additional staff and logistics. Financial Administration Rules o f the NRB are
adequate to ensure appropriate controls over project transactions. The duties and responsibilities o fthe
CST are segregated properly so as to ensure that financial transactions are initiated, approved and
executed at different levels. The FMstaff are well conversant with the Bank's FMpolicies and
procedures. Overall, the FMarrangements for the project are adequate for the initial stage o f project
implementation. However, these needto be further improved inthe areas indicatedbelow to ensure a
satisfactory FM system throughout the entire project implementation period.

RiskAnalysis: Froma financial managementperspective, there is lowriskaffecting the project. This is
because a large portion (almost 75 percent) o f the credit proceeds would be utilized to reimburse NBL
and RBB for Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS). N R B ' s appointment o f a full time Procurement
Specialist and FMexpert inthe CST has greatly contributed towards avoiding any potential risk inthe
procurement o f consultancy services and performing the ex-ante audit functions efficiently and
effectively. Further, implementation experience gathered through the on-going Phase Iproject has
provided adequate knowledge and skills inmanagingIDA funded credits.

Strengths: The proposedproject aims to buildonthe successeso fthe current project and will have the
following strengths inthe area o f financial management: (i)   the existing FMexpert, who has familiarized
himselfwiththe World Bank's FMpolicy andprocedures, will continue to work inthe newproject.
Moreover, the need for additional support has been identified and it has been agreedthat these staff will be
put inplace by March 31,2004; and (ii) highlevel commitment o fthe government andNRB's
                                          the
management to various reforminitiatives will greatly contribute to addressing any potentialproblems which
may arise duringproject implementation.




                                                     35

Weakness andResolution: An importantweakness is poor logistic and other administiative support to
the CST. The CST staff are operating ina constrained environment interms o f staffing resources.
Financial information i s maintained in spreadsheets, but there i s scope for computerization o f accounts to
keep track o f project expenditures, compilation and reporting - with additional staff. It i s recommended
that this be addressed by the appointment o f additional staff. The CST i s also planning to upgrade its
computer facilities under the current project. The Finance Officer will be appointed by March 2004.

FundsFlow: To utilize IDA'Sshare o feligible expenditures, NRBwill open a Special Deposit Account
(SA) under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Executive Director (ED) o fthe NRB and
Financial Institutions Regulations Department will continue to work as the Coordinator inthe new project
and will continue to be the authorizing authority for checks, making payment request to CST, and the
withdrawal o f funds from the IDA creditlgrant. The SA will be managed under the joint signature o f the
EDand anFMexpert with aprovision for an alternate signature o f another Assistant Director (finance).

With regardto VRS payments, NBLand RBBhave aproper system inplace to properlymonitor the
eligibility o f VRS payments and maintainrecords thereof in their system. NRB has agreed to a reporting
format with NBL and RBB. NBLand RBB will maintain all supportingdocuments related to VRS
payments and they will be maintainedwithin the respective accounting departments o fthe two
commercial banks. These documents will be made available upon demand to NRB, external auditors and
other concerned authorities including World Bank supervision missions. Reporting formats have also
been agreed with NRB, and the two commercialbanks will prepare a summary statement o f all VRS
payments which will be completed by the Accounts Departments o f the respective banks, certifiedby the
Chief Financial Officers, and the Heads o f the Internal Audit Departments. VRS payments will be based
on policy documents approved by the concerned authorities o fthe two commercialbanks and the
resolution o f the management committee approving claims for amounts paid under the VRS.

HMGNwill ensure timelyrelease of counterpart fundsto the CST througha separateprojectbank
account. Transaction baseddisbursement procedures will be applicable for withdrawal o f funds from the
creditlgrant.

Budgeting,Accounting andInternalControls: Project planning andbudgetingwill follow HMGN's
existing planning and budgeting system, which i s adequate for the new project. This has already been
reviewed duringthe on-going project preparation and i s outlined inthe PAD. Cash based accounting
systems will be followed. The accounting policies and procedures will be the same as for the on-going
project and will be governed by the existing accounting procedures outlined inthe Financial
Administration Rules o f the NRB. Separate books/records (cash and bank-book, General Ledger, Fixed
Assets register, Bank Reconciliation, etc) for the project would be maintained byNRB. The accounts will
continue to be maintained on computer spreadsheets which i s adequate to keep track o f project financial
transactions. Approval authority and proper segregation o f duties inthe CST has been functioning well in
the on-going project. The same delegation o f financial powers and approval authorities will be followed
for the new project and will further strengthen with the appointment o f a finance officer.

FinancialReportingandMonitoring: The CST will be responsible for summarizingfinancial
transactions, maintaining supporting papers and preparingtimely consolidated Financial Statements on a
monthly basis. A set o f customized formats o f project Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were
agreed inthe on-going project. The first set o f reports were receivedinDecember 2003. NRB will
propose formats to report project progress based on the existing agreed reporting formats. FMRs will be
submitted on a trimester basis within 45 days o f the end o f each trimester. It has been agreed that a set o f
customizedreports for the proposed project will be submitted to IDA and will be finalized based on
IDA'Scomments by January 31,2004.




                                                     36

ExternalAudit: The first audit report ofthe on-goingproject, and for NRB, are for FY2002/03 and are
due on January 15,2004. NRB was notified o fthe need for the audit reports by the due date - including
beingnotified o f the implications o f delays that could lead to delays inproject processing o f the current
operation. The option o fNRB's audited financial statement being mergedwith identifiable information
on IDA funds, under an agreed Terms o fReference (TOR), was explored. It was concluded that NRBi s
not yet ready to merge project financial data into its financial statements and it would prefer to have
project financial statements auditedby a private audit firm appointed by the Auditor General (AG),
acceptable to IDA. The audit TOR, which has beenagreed inthe on-going project, will be followed for
the proposed project and the audit report will be submitted to the Bank within six months o f the end o f
each fiscal year. Inaddition, N R B ' s statutory auditor will carry out an annual audit o f its financial
statements. A copy o f such audit reports will be submitted to IDA by January 15 o f each fiscal year.

The following audit reports would be monitoredinthe Audit Report Compliance system (ARCS):


 Implementing                Audit                         Auditors                       Audit DueDate
    Agency
NRB                 Project Financial           Private Sector Audit Firm           6 months after the end
                    Statements                  appointed by the ,Auditor           o f fiscal year (January
                                                General (AG)                        15'h)
NRB                 Entity(NRB) Financial Private Sector Audit Firm                 6 months after the end
                    Statements                  appointed by the Auditor            o f fiscal year (January
                                                General (AG)                        15')




                     Actions                            Responsibility              Completiondate
1. Appointment of Support Staff inthe CST                    NRB                     March 31, 2004
2. Upgradation o f Computer Hardware/                        NRB                   December 3 1,2004
Software in CST to move to a computerized
information system
3. Finalization o f FMRs formats and contents           IDAandNRB                   January 31,2004
4. Appointment o fprivate audit firm                         OAG                 M a y 15" o f every year
accentable to IDA


SupervisionPlan: The initial supervision focus will be onthe progress o fimplementation o fthe agreed
actions, and facilitating NRB inmaintaining sound Financial Management arrangements throughout the
project implementationperiod.

Disbursement

Allocationof credit/grantproceeds (TableC): Disbursement underthe proposed crediugrant will be
made as indicated inTable C, which indicates the percentage o f financing for different categories o f
expenditures o f the project. It i s expected that IDA funds will be disbursed over a period o f five years.
The fiscal year disbursement estimate i s provided on page one (the Project Summary) o f the PAD. The
Closing Date o f the credit/grant i s March 2009.




                                                       37

Allocation of CreditProceeds

    ExpenditureCategory                Amount inUS $ Million            FinancingPercentage
1. Voluntary Retirement                          56.5                 100% o f disbursed amount
   Scheme
2. Consulting Services                            13.0                             85%
3. Goods                                          4.0                100%o f foreign expenditures
                                                                    and 85% o f local expenditures
Unallocated                                       2.0




Use of Statement of Expenditures(SOEs): IDA will require full documentation for all prior review
cases where contracts exceed the equivalent of: (a) U S $200,000 for goods; (b) U S $100,000 for services
contracts with firms; and (c) U S $25,000 for individuals. Expenditures below the above thresholds and
all expenditures under voluntary retirement schemes (VRS), will be claimed on SOEs. Duringthe initial
supervision by IDA, the mission will closely review the SOE claims to ensure that the funds are utilized
for the intended purposes. Any deviations noticed duringsuch reviews would be noted for remedy and
improvement.

SpecialAccount: For utilization o fIDA'S share o fproject expenditures, NRE3may open andmaintaina
Special Deposit Account inU S dollars under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocationto the Special Deposit Account will be limited to 3 to 4 months estimated expenditure o f IDA'S
share o f the proposed project. The authorized allocationwill be limitedto $4,000,000. At the start o f the
project, the initial deposit will be limitedto $2,000,000. The remaining $2,000,000 o f the authorized
allocationmay be withdrawn once the total withdrawal from the creditlgrant reaches SDR 5,000,000.

RetroactiveFinancing: Inorder to expedite project implementation, there is aneedfor retroactive
financing in excess o f the current 10percent authorized limit which has requiredRegional Vice President
(RVP) and Managing Director (MD)approval. Bank reimbursement from the proceeds o f the IDA credit
will be made for VRS payments undertaken inadvance o f the anticipated Boarddate. Inorder to be
eligible for retroactive financing, procedures for procurement, the use o f consultants, processing and
clearance, are subject to Bank's Procurement and Consultants Guidelines. Inaddition, documentation
requirements for expenditures claimed under retroactive financing are the same as those for
disbursements against payments made after the Financing Agreement i s signed and effective.




                                                      38

                                           Annex 8: Procurement
                           NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

                          Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                           (US$ million equivalent)

                                               Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB            Other'        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00

2. Goods                          3.83          0.17            0.00          0.00           4.00'

3. Services                       0.00          0.00          13.003          0.00          13.00

4. Miscellaneous4                 0.00          0.00          56.50           0.00          56.50

5. Unallocated'                   0.00          0.00            2.00          0.00           2.00


Total                             3.83          0.17          71.50           0.00          75.50


'
   Includes consultant selection arrangements and VRS payments,

   Computer purchases and ITupgrading for NRB.

   This comprises consultancy services for NRJ3reengineering, managementteam support and sales advisors,

   Voluntary Retirement Schemes - $ 56.5 million

   Unallocatedamount could go into ExternalAudit and IT Platform shortfall bothunder NRB re-engineering or
possible shortfall inFSTA budget for payment to Management Team for Year 3  ,




                                                      39

                            Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                               (US$ million equivalent)


                                                              SelectionMethod

    Consultant Services             QCBS       QBS        SFB       LCS         CQ        Other     N.B.F.    Total
   Expenditure Category
A. Firms                            6.18       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00        6.00      0.00     12.18

B.Individuals                       0.82       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.82

                          Total     7.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       6.00      0.00     13.00

   Note: Other refers to sole sourcing.




                     Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods andPrior Review'

                                      Contract Value                                        ContractsSubject to
    Expenditure Category                Threshold              ProcurementMethod               Prior Review
                                     (US$ thousands)                                          (US$millions)
   1.Works                                 NA
   2. Goods                       a) <200,000                        NCB                              0.00
                                  b) >200,000                         ICB                             4.00
   3. Services                   A. Firms:
                                  a) < 100,000                    QCBS,CQ, Other                      0.00
                                  b) > 100,000                        QCBS                            7.15
                                                                  LC, SFB, Other                      7.25

                                 B.Individuals:                     CQ, Other                         0.10
                                    >25,000
      Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review o f Procurement Documentation"
   and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.

                    Total value o f contracts subject to prior review: {US$ 18.5 million}

                               Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: {Average}

   Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every {four} months (includes
   special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)




                                                           40

                                  Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds


     Expenditure Category                   Amount inUS$ million         FinancingPercentage
Goods                                                   3-62                    100%
Services                                               13.38                     85%
Miscellaneous (VRS)                                   56.50                     100%
Unallocated                                            2.00                      85%
               Total Project Costs                    75.50
      Interest during construction
                     Front-endFee



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): {if applicable}

Special Account: {ifapplicable}




                                                       41

                                 Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                              NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject




Nepal Bank Limited                                          -----
                                                             1999    2000     2001     2002      2003

StaffExpense(Rs. mil)                                         763    1,048      871    1,228     1,005
Annual Savings after VRS (Rs.mil)                                                                              244
Cost (Incentive) of VRS - (20.1 % ofRs. 2,037 mn)                                                              409


IRR(10 year period) - %                                                                                       59%
Payback(years)                                                                                                1.68


NE3Lmanagementhopestoreduce staffexpenses from25 percent oftotal operating expenseto 16percent
annually iftheir VRS plan i s successful. This translates to annual saving inoperating costs o f Rs 244
million. Whilst the total cost o f VRS i s Rs 2,037 million, the incentive portion built into the scheme i s
only 20.1percent o f the total, i.e. Rs 409 million, which i s the figure used as the investment cost for the
project.

This results ininternalrate o freturn o f 59 percent with a payback periodof 1.68years. Given that data
on future cash flows are not available, annual savings and investment cost (taking into cognizance the
possibility of an increase inincentive costs) have been sensitized under different scenarios, viz:

                  IRR& PavbackPeriod                  Increase InvestmentCostby

                  ReduceAnnual Savingsby/           5yo           10%            15%           20%
                              10%                 53% (1.86)    48% (2.05) 46% (2.14)       44% (2.23)
                              20%                 47% (2.10)    42% (2.30) 40% (2.41) 38% (2.51)
                              30%                 40% (2.39)    36% (2.63) 34% (2.75)       33% (2.87)
                              40%                 34% (2.79)    30% (3.07) 29% (3.21) 27% (3.35)


Even ifprojectedcash flow i s sensitized with 40 per cent reduction inannual savings and increase in
investment cost by 20 percent, N B L ' s IRRremains satisfactory at 27 percent (with a payback o f 3.4
years).


RastrivaBaniiva Bank                                        -----
                                                            1999     2000     2001     2002      2003

StaffExpense (NPR mil)                                        560    1,279   1,385       759     3,258
Annual Savingsafter VRS (NPRmil)                                                                             264
Cost (Incentive) of VRS - (18.7 % ofNPR2873 mn)                                                              537

IRR(10 year period) - YO                                                                                     48%
Payback(years)                                                                                               2.03
Note - Staffexpenses in 2000, 2001 and 2003 includesprovision madefor Provident Fund and other staffbenefts.

Based on estimates provided by RBBmanagement, projectedannual savings are Rs 264 million after
implementingtheir VRS (both phases). Investmenti s estimated at Rs 537 million, i.e. the incentive



                                                            42

portion from the total VRS cost o f Rs 2,837 million. This yields an IRRo f 48 percent with a pay back
period o f slightly more than 2 years.


As information on RBB's future cash flow is not available, annual savings and investment cost havebeen
sensitized under various scenarios inline with NBL,viz:

               IRR& PavbackPeriod               Increase Investment Cost by
               Reduce Annual Savings bd       5yo          10%           15%          20%
                         10%               41% (2.37)     39% (2.49)   37% (2.60)    35% (2.71)
                         20%               36% (2.67)     34% (2.80)   32% (2.92)    30% (3.05)
                         30%               30% (3.05)     29% (3.20)   27% (3.34)    26% (3.49)
                         40%               25% (3.56)     24% (3.73)   22% (3.90)    21% (4.07)



Hence, under a worst case scenario - a 40 percent reduction inprojected annual savings and a 20 per cent
increase ininvestment cost -results inan IRRo f 21 percent (payback o f 4 years).

Due to the lack o f data, the above calculations didnot take into account the indirect costs o f the VRS
including the cost o f outsourcing, and the cost o fnew hires. Similarly, indirect benefits such as subsidies
on staff loans, and the overhead costs o f displaced staff have not been factored in. Hence, sensitivity
analysis was done under various adverse conditions as shown above which still results insatisfactory
returns to the investment.

The retum to the Bank's investment operation are quantifiable benefits interms o f cost savings as shown
above and the unquantifiablebenefits interms o f increased efficiency o f the banking system through
lower lending spread and wider choice o f banking services.




                                                      43

                                      Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                              NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject


N o World Bank Safeguardpolicies have been triggeredby this project -therefore issues pertaining to the
identification and minimization o f safeguards do not apply. This Annex does, however, cover social
safeguard issues considered by the project team inthe preparation o f this project.



                                          Social andSafeguardIssues

Introduction

As part o fthe FinancialSector Technical Restructuring Program (FSRP - Phase 11)inNepal, aVoluntary
Retirement Scheme (VRS) i s to be implementedintwo commercial banks -Nepal Bank Limited (NBL)
and RastriyaBanijya Bank (RBB). The project team originally built ina training and counseling
component inan effort to meet the genuine retraining needs o f these retiredstaff and to address potential
criticisms arising from the implementationo f the VRS which could pose a reputationrisk for the Bank.
The inclusion o f this component was also promptedby the desire to meet Bank safeguardrequirements.
The team felt that there was a real or perceived harmresultingfrom the retrenchment o f workers at the
two banks. The VRS component has been developed ina participatory process that involves all
stakeholders (including the affected parties or their representatives) and, as a result o f this undertaking,
has established that there i s only minimal demand for training and counseling at the current time. Formal
and open consultations were held with all affected parties - and a social assessment o f the training and
counseling component was carried out with the conclusion that it was not needed. Extensive discussions
were held with the unions, focus groups and others -by the Management Teams inthe banks, the
Appraisal Missionteam members, and a social consultancy consultant -to ascertain interest. It was clear
that there i s very little interest from the workers or the Government inthese activities. The team has,
nonetheless, undertaken extensive due diligence on this issue.

What hasbeendone?

At the early stage o f project conceptualization, itwas thought that there couldbe considerable social
implications associated with the implementation o f the VRS. It was recognized early on that althoughno
safeguards issues were triggered, there was nonetheless concem about the likely negative social impact on
those workers that chose early retirement without proper planning. Includedinthe range o f social risks
were: (1) the inability o f employees to re-enter and compete within the labor market; and (2) the risk o f
lower level o f bank employees being forced into poverty as a result o f their choosing early retirement.
With this inmind, a training and counseling component was developed to mitigate the potential adverse
impacts listed above.

Detailsof the Training andCounselingComponent

A detailed training and counseling component was developed to support the approximately4,700 retiring
staff from these banks. This program had three main objectives: (1) to promote income generation
activities for the worker or hisher family members; (2) to assist workers in designing their investment
strategies for their lump sum severance pay; and (3) to provide networhng and general empowerment
training to worker and family members. The plan was to provide assistance to staff expected to retire




                                                        44

underthe VRS package inNBLand RBB. This component was thereby designedas an added social
safety net for workers who take up the VRS package.

Conduct of Social Assessment

A focus group discussion with employees comprising Officer andAssistant o fthe accounts, Banking
Business, General Service, and Internal Audit departments was held inOctober 2003 at the RBB
headquarters inKathmandu, Nepal. An additional focus group discussion with RBB employees
consisting o fthe HeadAssistant, Assistant Officer, Senior RecordKeeper, Assistant Manager, Assistant
Manager, and Deputy Manager was held on inNovember 2003 at the RBB office headquarters. Intotal,
six focus group discussions were conducted with approximately 60 employees from bothbanks in
October and inNovember 2003. Consultations were also held with representatives o f the unions and o f
the civil society including the NGOs, international donor community and government agencies concerned
with workers' welfare.

Why was this training and social component abandoned?

After undertakingconsiderable due diligence initially inOctober 2003, and then again inNovember 2003
as part o f the appraisal mission, several areas o f concem arose which resultedinthe decision by the
project team to drop the training and counseling component o f the project. The reasons included: (1) the
lack o f government buy-infor the component which raised the issue o f whether the project team was
being truly "client responsive"; (2) the absence o f an effective on-the-ground agency with the ability to
handle the complexity o f this component; and (3) the absence o f support by bilateral partners and
international NGOs (DFID and GTZ) for this component. Most importantly, the retirees themselves,
many with secondjobs while working for the bank, are not considered the poor or the vulnerable groups
inNepalese society. ByNepalese standards, the employees ofthese two public sector banks arerelatively
well offby many standards and, duringmeetings with and without union representation, RBB and NBL
employees didnot view the training and counseling component as especially pertinent to their lives.

Social Tracking and Exit Surveys

Nonetheless, inan effort to learn about the effects o f retrenchment and discontinuationo f employment in
Nepal, two surveys will be carried out as part o f this project. An exithetraining survey will provide vital
information on the attributes and profile o f all staffretiring from NBLand RBB. A second, more long
term, tracking survey will be conducted among a smaller sub-sample o f these retiring workers to track
their progress intheir post- retirement lives so that future programs can be adequately adaptedto meet the
special needs o f this sub-group o fretiring ex-state owned enterprise workers. The Bank has been in
contact with DFIDconcerningthe ExiURetraining Survey and the subsequent traclung survey and there i s
an agreement inprincipal that the UK Government will fundthis survey work.

The project team has identified MARGNepal, a subsidiary o f ACNielsen based inKathmandu, as the
most appropriate research agency to conduct and analyze both surveys. MARGNepal i s a large
multidisciplinary research and consultancy agency which i s registered with the Ministry o f Commerce
(Nepal) and with the Bank inthe South Asia region. MARGi s experienced with handling large studies in
urban and rural settings, ina wide range o f subject areas (health practices, corruption, poverty alleviation
opinion polls) for agencies such as the UnitedNations, DFID, and Transparency International




                                                       45

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                        NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

                                                      Planned               Actual
PCNreview                                            09/15/03             9/03/2003
InitialPID to PIC                                    10/30/03
InitialISDS to PIC                                   10/25/03             10/21/2003
Appraisa1                                            11/10/03             11/10/2003
Negotiations                                         01/15/04
BoardRVP approval                                    03/16/04             02/24/2004
Planned date o f effectiveness                       05/31/04
Planned date o fmid-termreview                       09/10//06            09/10/2006
Plannedclosing date                                  0346/09              03/16/2009

Keyinstitutionsresponsible for preparation ofthe project:

World Bank, IDA
InternationalMonetary Fund, IMF
Department o f InternationalDevelopment, DFID(UK)


Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                             Title                      Unit
Simon Bell                        Sector Manager                          SASFP
Sabin Raj Shrestha                Financial Sector Specialist             SASFP
Juan Costain                      Lead Fin. Sector Specialist             SASFP
Kiatchai Sophastienphong          Sr. Financial Sector Specialist         SASFP
Nagavalli Annamalai               Lead Counsel                            LEGPS
Kiran Baral                       Sr. Procurement Officer                 s m s
Suraiya Zannath                   Sr. Fin.Mgmt. Specialist                SARFM
Bigyan Pradhan                    Sr. Fin.Mgmt. Specialist                SARFM
Nina Bhatt                        Project Safeguard Specialist              SDV
Caroline Fawcett                  Consultant                        IMPAQInternational, L L C
Margaret Murray                   Executive Assistant                     SASFP



Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
1. Bankresources:       150.0 K
2. Trust funds:           0.0
3. Total:               150.0 K

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
1, Remainingcosts to approval:         35.0 K
Estimated annual supervision cost:     75.0 K




                                                  46

                         Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                    NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject


A.  Government Documents
    -Original Signed Letter o f FinancialPolicies from the Minister o f Finance inNepal.
    -Financial Sector Strategy Statement (FSSS)

B.  Bank Staff Assessments
    -Bank's Financial Sector Study
    -Financial Management Assessment o f Nepal Rastra Bank
    -Procurement Assessment o f Nepal Rastra Bank

C.  Other
    -various Management Team reports for Rastriya Banijya Bank and Nepal Bank Limited.




                                                47

                                    Annex 12A:Letter of FinancialPolicies




Dr. PrakashchandraLohani                                                                   %%&ber       9,2003
        Ministry of Finance


Mr.PrafulPatel,
Vice President,
South Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C., 20433
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA


Dear Mr.Patel,

                      Letter of Financial Policies -Financial Sector Restructuring in Nepal

            HisMajesty's Government o fNepal (HMGN)has embarkedona comprehensiveprogramoffinancial
sector reform and The World Bank and the UK Department for IntemationalDevelopment (DFID) have provided
important financial support to the f i s t phase o f this reform through the Financial Sector Technical Assistance
(FSTA) Project. Under this project, the government has placed two professional management teams into the two
largest banks inNepal - Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL)- to restructure these
institutions and ultimately prepare them for privatization.

            Progress inRBB andNBL. Initialindications are that goodprogress isbeingmade inthese two banks.
For example, non-performing loan recoveries have reached more than Rs2.0billion inRBB and well over Rs2.5
billioninNBL. Bothbanks are now producing financial accounts on a regular quarterly basis. Externally audited
accounts are expected to be produced for 2002/03 within the five monthtime frame stipulated byNepal Rastra Bank
(NRB). Bothbanks are inthe process o finstallingabasic ITplatformto improve their managementinformation
systems and their accounting functions and Treasury management has been tightened inthe two banks. Bothbanks
managed to reduce their losses o n current year operations compared to last financial year. These banks are being
restructured inways that would not have been possible two years ago. Inthis, we are grateful for the ongoing
support o f the World Bank and DFID.

            Voluntary RetirementSchemes inthe two CommercialBanks. However, before additional substantive
progress can be made inmoving these banks towards privatization, further efficiency gains will need to be
undertaken. The most evident area where productivity needs to be achieved i s with respect to staffing. The human
resource managers inthese two banks have estimated that the banks are between 40 to 50 percent overstaffed and
that it i s necessary to shed 5,500 staff from these banks. Only once the staffing levels are reduced to numbers which
are viable inthe longer term will it be practicalto undertake the training and the upgrading necessary to improve




                                                              48

service and efficiency. This process i s also expectedto acheve substantive gains with respect to cutting
administrative costs - enhancing the ability to ultimately privatize these banks. As you are aware, supporting the
Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS) inthese two banks i s a major focus o f the proposed Financial Sector
Restructuring Programthat we have now embarked upon - again with proposed support from the World Bank.

          NepalBankLimited. Inmoving ahead with the VRS we are cognizant o fthe fact that NepalBank
Limitedi s a privately (59.1 percent) owned bank - even though His Majesty's Government i s the single largest
shareholder. As part o f the FSTA, the private sector board o f the bank was replaced by a board o f officials
designated by the central bank and a new Management Team was installed - effectively placing the bank under
NRB's control.

          Given these serious problems -plus the steep negative net worth o f the bank (conservatively estimated at
around $150 million) - there is a need to take over full control o f this bank to protect the interests o f depositors, and
to facilitate the ultimate objective o f turningthis bank over to new "fit and proper" owners once the bank has been
restructured. T o bringabout this change inownership, it is the intention o f HMGNto amend Article 86 o f the NRB
Act to provide NRB sufficient powers to, not only assume control o fNBL, as it has already done, but also
rehabilitate and restructure the latter through asset and liability transfers. This arrangement i s specifically designed
to address the issue o f troubled banks such as NBLwhich have private sector shareholders. To this end, HMGN
intends to have this amendment approved by the Cabinet by December 2003.

          Inaddition, ithasbeena consideredview o fthe Government as well as the Central Bankthat, giventhe
significant negative net worth o f the NBL, the continuation o f its listing inthe stock exchange could facilitate the
trading o f shares at prices likely to prove to be unsustainable, to the ultimate detriment o f potential investors.
Consequently, initiatives have recently been taken through appropriate measures, currently inthe form o f suspension
o f share trading, to de-list NBL shares from the stock exchange. The government wants to assure you that the
suspension will continue untilthe de-listingprocess will be completed. The government expects to complete this
process by December 2003, taking into account all necessary, including legal and financial implications o f the move.

          RastriyaBanijya Bank. Issues relatingto ownership do not exist with RBBas it is a 100percent
government owned bank. HMGNwill therefore be able to dispose o f the assets o f the bank inany way inwhich it
sees fit. Nonetheless, inbothbanks, there will be the customary problems associated with VRS schemes, notably,
questions o f adverse selection, revolving door policies, and concem that changes ingovernance arrangements (Le.
privatization) may not ultimately be acheved. Inthis respect we are working with the HR specialists on the two
Management Teams to reduce the staff complement o f these banks to a much lower level; ensure that acceptance o f
the VRS i s only with the agreement o fbothparties - the bank and the individual (to avoid adverse selection); and to
move towards rapidprivatization to ensure that satisfactory long t e r m governance arrangements are put into place
withinthese two banks as soon as possible.

          The "End Game" for the Two LargeBanks. Over the past twelve months, there has beenconsiderable
discussion o f the "End Game" with respect to these banks. We have discussed with World Bank and Intemational
Monetary Fundofficials many possible options including liquidation, merging the banks, privatizing the banks as
separate entities, and splittingtheir functions and combining them with other financial institutions. However, we




                                                            49

have decided to remain with the original plan laid out inGovernment's Financial Sector Strategy statement (FSSS)
o f November 2000 which clearly states that the two banks will be ultimately privatized-to "fit and proper" bankers
-astwoseparateentities. Itisourintentiontomovetowardsprivatizationasrapidlyaspossibleandhencewehave
decided to recruit a Sales Advisor to advise on the privatization as part o f the proposed Phase I1financial sector
reform operation supported by the World Bank. Therefore, the HMGN's end game with respect to RBB and NBL i s
rapid privatizationo f these banks to fit and proper buyers, as separate banking entities, inas short a time period as
possible -preferably before the endo f 2006.

          Retrainingand Counseling. The government wants to see that bank staffwho accept the voluntary
retirement packages are given as much support as possible inmaking smooth the transition from working life inthe
banking sector to retirement, self employment, or some other productive economic activity, by counseling these
workers, providing training to them or their family members, who can help earn alternative sources o f household
income. We therefore request that this component o fthe proposed Phase I1package o f the financial sector reform
be exclusively grant-funded with the support o f the World Bank or any other development partner.

          HiringSalesAdvisors. Hiring Sales Advisors for the two banks i s an integral component o four planto
reach the end game o f separate privatization. Again we welcome World Bank support to hire this expertise, prepare
sales memoranda for the two restructured institutions, undertake a road show for their sale, and ultimately take the
banks through to the point o f privatization. It i s our intention to have completed this process by the end o f 2006 -
with a view that one bank could be sold some time earlier.

          On-goingManagementTeam Support. We also wishto maintain the banks under professional
management arrangements up to the point o f privatization. The current management teams will almost certainly
have their contracts extended for a thirdyear - although the composition o f the teams may change. However, given
the uncertainties surrounding the restructuring program and the timing o f the privatizationprocess itself, it may be
necessary to keep these Management Teams, or an acceptable alternative, engaged beyond a thud year. Inthis light,
we welcome the proposed World Bank assistance to cover the costs o f such Management Team support up untilthe
point o f privatization.

          NepalRastraBank. The most critical institutionwith respect to our nation's financial sector is the central
bank itself, i.e. Nepal Rastra Bank. The support provided under the FSTA project has been instrumental inhelping
commence the process o f re-engineering the human resources, the accounting, and the bank supervisory functions o f
the bank. We now feel that it i s important to broaden and deepen these initial gains. W e therefore view a second
phase o f NRBre-engineering as being important inconsolidating the gains already achieved with respect to NRB
and widening these further to the other banks and finance companies operating within the economy. Iwould like to
emphasize some areas where we have agreed that World Bank support will be required withinNRB:

          Human Resource Reform. First, the compete restructuring o f the HumanResources function i s critical to
providing appropriate incentives to staff and to ultimately turningthe bank into a fully professional world class
institution. To this end, the NRB is taking steps to energize this important function. The bank has reduced its
staffing numbers from 2,500 to 1,700. Inour view the bank i s still substantially over-staffed and needs to reduce
staffing to a level somewhat lower than 1,000 with further reductions once the IT platform has beenput inplace.
The bank i s embarking upon a VRS scheme under which it intends to retrench staff who are currently involved in




                                                             50

functional areas which are to be outsourced- mainly non-core central banlung activities (gardening, security,
drivers, cleaners, canteen, etc), as well as lower level administrative jobs where the bank is currently overstaffed.
This will be further supported by the introduction o f a new organizational structure from January 1, 2004 (agreed
with IDA and the IMF)and new humanresource policies relatedto recruitment, promotion, transfer, performance
management, and retirement. Incombinationwith a continuation o f the existing no-transfer rule on staff inkey
departments and on-going HR support under the follow up financial sector operation, we expect to witness a strong
movement inthe desired direction for Nepal Rastra Bank over the next several years. Establishing a leaner, more
professional central bank also permits the Ministryto put forward a stronger case for the salary decompression
which is required inNRB for attracting and retaining the rightprofessional talent inthe institution.

          Banking Supervision. The progress achieved within bank supervision inNRB over the past three years,
now needs to be consolidated and deepened. T o this end, the NRB has established a two-year cycle o f on site bank
examinations for all 17 commercialbanks inthe country. Under the Financial Sector Restructuring Project, we
anticipate that substantive professional support will provide the necessary training and quality assurance required for
these on-site bank exams. Computing assistance for the bank supervision and operations department will also assist
inthisprocess. StrengtheningNRB's supervisory andregulatory role is key to the success o fthe overallfinancial
reform agenda. Equally important will be follow up actions resulting from the recommendations o f these
consolidated on-site bank examination reports, which HMGNwill be pursuingwith the full force o f the law.

          Auditing and Accounting. Inline with agreements with IDA and the IMF,Nepal Rastra Bank will be
adopting an accounting manual w h c h meets International Accounting Standards and will itselfbe externally audited
to I A S in2002/03 and 2003/04 by an international firmexperienced incentral bank audit. T o assist inthis process,
we welcome the on-going IDA support under the FSTA Project to assist the central bank inmeeting these important
goals.

          Information Technology. The central bank requires a significant upgrading o f its IT platform. It currently
operates with very little computing power and without a computerized General Ledger. We are pleasedto note the
support o f IDA inagreeing to finance the development o f an institution wide IT Strategy for the bank, the hardware
(including a computerized general ledger system), the software, and the staff training requirements for this function.
Itis only with a substantially enhancedcomputerized capacity that the centralbank will be able to achieve its full
potential with respect to the vision that HMGNnow has for the bank.

          Other Support. Iwould also like to request that the World Bank operation retain some flexibility to finance
other pertinent areas o f support withinNepal Rastra Bank - as the need arises. This will be particularly important in
helping us meet our medium term objectives o f establishing a first class central over the next three to five years.

          PublicAwareness and Public Concerns. Iampleasedto note that the generalpublic has become
increasingly aware o f the issues surrounding the financial sector reform inNepal. The maturityo f the public debate
on these issues has been encouraging. Nonetheless, as we move forward, Ianticipate that various vested interests
will apply pressure inthe media and beyond inan effort to protect the economic rents that they have managed to
extract from the system. T o this end, anup-scaling o f the public awareness component o f the Phase IFSTA project
will be important and we look to NRB and IDA inassisting us inpublicizing the reformmessage adequately and at
an appropriate level to reach the general public inNepal. We are firmly o f the view that a well-informed public i s a
crucial ingredient o f success inthe overall reform agenda.




                                                           51

         In Conclusion. Itrust that the progress that we have acheved over the past two years clearly demonstrates
HMGN'ssupport for the financial sector reformagenda. The way forward is focused onthree very clear and
tangible objectives: (a) the separate privatizationo f RBB and NEiLto "fit and proper" buyers within the next three
years; (b) an intensification o f the consolidated supervision o f all the commercial banks inNepal (including follow
through o n appropriate remedial actions); and (c) a further streamlining and professionalization o f the central bank
with a particular focus on on-going HRreform, strengtheningo f auditing and accounting capacities, considerably
enhanced support for on-site bank examination, and an important capacitization o f the IT function.     As such, we
envisage that the World Bank Phase I1Financial Sector Reformproject will provide $77.0 million for support in
these areas.

         Iamencouragedaboutthewayforwardforourfinancialsectorreformagendaandamgratefulforthe
support that the IDA, the IMF and DFIDhave lent to our efforts. Our vision is o f a fundamentally rejuvenated and
modernizedfinancial sector -providing support for the better overall economic health o f the economy, for the
benefit o f all Nepalis.



Yours Sincerely,




Dr.PrakashChandra Lohani
Minister o f Finance, HisMajesty's Government o f Nepal

cc       International Monetary Fund; (IMF)
         Department for International Development (DFID




                                                            52

                                          Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits

                                     NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject


                                                                                                                           Difference between
                                                                                                                           expected and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$Millions                              disbursements

ProjectID   FY    Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
                                                                                                                                            ~~~


PO10516    1997   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation              0.00      18.28    0.00      0.00      1.55     0.59       3.37               1.74

PO10530    1998   IrrigationSector Development                   0.00     79.77     0.00      0.00      8.01      5.22     14.64               3.77

PO40612    1999   Basic and PrimaryEducationI1                   0.00      12.50    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.52       0.81          -0.63

PO45052    2000   RoadMaintenanceand Development                 0.00     54.50     0.00      0.00      0.00    33.13      49.43               9.40

PO50671    2002   TelecommunicationsSector Reform                0.00     22.56     0.00      0.00      0.00    23.24      11.30               0.22

PO82646    2003   Community School Support Project LIL           0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     4.95       0.13               0.00

PO71291    2003   Financial Sector Technical Assistance          0.00     16.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     14.26     -2.75               0.00

PO43311    2003   Power DevelopmentProject                       0.00     75.60     0.00      0.00      0.00    78.46       3.00               0.00

PO74686    2004   PovertyReductionSupport Project                0.00     70.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     74.17      0.00               0.00

                                                      Total:     0.00   354.21      0.00      0.00      9.56    235.54     79.93          14.51




                                                                   NEPAL
                                                         STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                        InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                                                 Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                IFC                                        IFC

       FY Approval    Company                       Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi      Partic.

          1994        Himal Power                      23.40      0.00        3.40     0.00      23.40      0.00        3.40        0.00

          1996        BhoteKoshi                       17.96      2.95        0.00    26.90       17.96     2.95        0.00       26.90

          1998        Jomsom Resort                     4.00      0.00        0.00     0.00       4.00      0.00        0.00        0.00

          2001        ILFC -Nepal                       0.00      0.29        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.30       0.00         0.00

                                  Total portfolio:     45.36      3.24        3.40    26.90      45.36      3.25        3.40       26.90




                                                                               Approvals PendingCommitment
                                                                                                                    ~



                       FY Approval     Company                             Loan       Equity       Quasi      Partic.




                                             Total pendingcommitment:      0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                      53

                                                      Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                                      NEPAL: FinancialSector RestructuringProject

 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                        South       LOW.
                                                               Nepal        Asia    income      Developmentdiamond'
 2003
 Population,mid-year(million)                                   24.2        1,401     2,495
 GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$J                              240         460                              Lifeexpectancy
                                                                                       430
 GDP per capita (US$)                                            238
 GNI (Atlas method, US$ billion)                                 5.7         40       1,072                          T
 Average annual growth, 199743

 Population(%)                                                   2.2           1.8      1.9     3NI
 Laborforce (%)                                                  2.6          2.3       2.3     ier

 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                          :apita

 Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline, 1996)           42
 Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                            13           28       30
 Life expectancyat birth (years)                                 60            63       59                           1
 Infantmortality(per 1,000live birlhsl                           66            71       81
Child malnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                           48                                   Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                88            84       76
 illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                              55            44       37
Grossprimaryenrollment I%ofschool-agepopulation)                118            97       95      -Nepal                  Low-incomegroup
     Male                                                       128          108       103
     Female                                                     108            89       87

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS

                                                      1983     1993         2002      2003
                                                                                                Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                      2.4      3.7          5.5       5.7
(in percent)
Grossdomestic investmenVGDP                            19.6     22.6        24.6       26.1                        Trade

Exportsof goods and ServicedGDP                        10.2     18.4        16.1       14.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                              8.5     12.2        11.8       11.3                          T
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                              10.7     14.5        25.7       25.6

Current accountbalanceiGDP                             -7.4     -8.1          2.6      -0.9
Interestpayments on externaldebtlGDP                    0.2      0.8          0.4       0.4
Total external debVGDP                                 18.5     54.9        52.9       51.8
Total debt service/exports                              6.5      8.8          4.6       5.2    I                     1
Present value of debffGDP(2001)                                             28.1
Present value of debffexports(2001)                                         74.0               I               Indebtedness

                                         1983-93 1993-03       2002        2003    2003-07
(average annualgrowth)                                                                         1
GDP                                           5.1       4.3     -0.5          2.3       4.8      -Nepal                  Low-incomegroup
GDP per capita                                2.7       2.0     -2.7          0.1       2.2


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                      1983     lSs3        2o02
                                                                                                 fig<
(% of GDP)                                                                                      Growthof GDp (*A)
Agriculture                                           60.3      41.3        39.6
Industry                                              12.8      20.2        20.9
   Manufacturing                                        4.6      8.6         8.1
Services                                              26.9      38.4        39.5       39.7

Privateconsumption                                    81.3      79.3        78.1       78.2    -2
General govemmentconsumption                          10.1       8.5        10.0       10.5
Imports of goods and services                         21.3     28.8         28.8      29.3                         ' O ' G D P



                                                   1983-93 1993-03         2002       2003
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                             3.4     3.3          2.2       2.1
Industry                                                9.2     4.9         -3.3       2.3
   Manufacturing                                      10.1      4.2        -10.0       0.4
Services                                                4.7     5.5         -1.4       2.7


Note:2003=2002/03.

* The diamonds show four keyindicatorsin the country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage.If data are missing,the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                              54

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                                                                                      I
                                         1983  1993   2002    2003      lnflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
                                                                                                                      I
(% change)                                                             l5T
Consumer prices                          14.0    9.9    2.9     4.7
                                                                       1,I
Implicit GDP deflator                    12.3   11.2    3.2     3.5
                                                                                                                     .]
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                        11.5    12.3                                    i
                                                                         O'       98   99      00             02
Current budget balance                                  -0.1    -4.0            -GDP       deflator ' O ' C P I
Overall surplusldeficit                                 -5.7    -4.0

TRADE
                                                                                                                      I
                                         1983  I993   2001    2003
(US$ millionsl                                                          Exportand Import levels (US0 mill.)

Total exports (fob)                        82    379    942     782   12,010T

  Food                                                   65
  Pulses                                                 56
  Manufactures                                          256
Total imports (cif)                       457    860  1,773   1,707
  Food                                           101     81                    97    98   99     00    01    02
  Fueland energy                                  84    338
  Capital goods                                  169    312                            Exports        w Imports


BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1983  1993   2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                          Currentaccount balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             249    675  1,060     949
                                                                       lo  T
Imports of goods and services             483  1,053  1,687   1,821
Resource balance                         -233  -378    -626   -872

Net income                                 12      8     -7      -6
Net current transfers                      36     75    777    825

Current account balance                  -185  -295     143     -53
Official transfers                          4     77    143     161

Financing items (net)                     137    380   -323   -143
Changes in net reserves (-=increase)      44   -162      36   -123    1.5  1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millions)            571  1,055   1,184
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)         13.8  48.0    75.9    77.8

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1983  I993   2002    2003
/US$ millions)                                                          Comporltlonof 2002 debt (US0mlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     453   2,010  2,933   2,975
  IBRD                                      0      0      0       0                    ~~5   G 3 6
  IDA                                     172   832   1,156   1,185

Total debt service                        20     69      88      96
  IBRD                                      0     0       0       0
  IDA                                       2     10     26      30

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                         94     77    143      161
  Official creditors                      68     156      4
  Private creditors                         I -10         0       0
  Foreign direct investment                -1     6      -4      -2
  Portfolio equity                          0     0       0       0

World Bank program
  Commitments                             45      0      23      97    A. IBRD                           E Bilateral
                                                                                                          -
  Disbursements                           31     69      38      27     B IDA
                                                                           -        D Othermultilateral
                                                                                     .                   F Private
                                                                                                          -
  Principal repayments                     0      4      18      21    C. IMF                            G. Short-term
  Net flows                               31     66      20       6
  Interest payments                         1     6       8       9
  Net transfers                           29     60      12      -3


Development Economics                                                                                           10/7/03




wb16511




                                                         55

M:\MMurrayWepalWestructunngProjProjectAppraisalDocument,January 12,2004.doc
January 14,2004 558 PM




                                                         56

MAP SECTION




