C.'> > RESTRICTED
Report No. SOL.: Ap-7A
ASIAN  D)EVEI :LOPMENT  BFANiK    MsThi8 Report.has beon propered for
ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT  BANK    the extclusive use of the Bankc.
APPRAISAL
OF THE
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
IN
SOLOMON ISLANDS
(PART A OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
September 1983



CUIRRN(;Y Mr1!TVAL.t*rTS
(Af. of Ir) Atuguett, 1983)
Currency Unit       -  Solomon Telands Dollar (SI$O
SE$1.0o             -  US$0.83
1is$ l . nn          -  IST1.2Q
For purposes of calculation in this Report, a rate of US$1.00
to ST81.15 has been used.
The Solomon Islands Dollar was introduced in 1977.  The
exchange rate is determined on the basis o4 a weighted basket of
currencies of the major trading partners or the Solomon Islands.
ABBREVIATIONS
ATIJ                -  Agriculture Information IJnit
AR                  -  Afio-Rokera, Malaita Province
CFO                 -  Chief Field Officer
CRO                 -  Chief Research Officer
FA                  -  Field Assistant
FTC                 -  Farmer Training Center
t.K                 -  Hakama, Central Province
JDA                 -  International Development
Association (World Bank)
IFAD                -  International Fund for
Agricultural Development
W{AND                -  Ministry of Home Affairs and
National Development
MS                   -larau Sound, Guadalcanal Province
NATI                -  National Agricultural Training
Institute
NCG                  -  Natlonal. Coordinating Croup
NWP                 -  Northwest Peninsula, Hakira
Province
PII                 -  Prolect Implementation UJnlt
RDC                 -  Rural Development Center
RH                  -  Rendova Harbor, Western Province
SC                  -  Santa Cruz, Temotu Province
SK                  -  Susubona-Kaevanga, Santa Isabel.
-VI
N y  T E
The Government's fiscal year ends on 31 December.                       'I



P1W,rgcr FOCUS, DFSIt(U AN) RAVt0OAL.P
Agriculture  provides  over  90 per cent  of Solonon  Islands
exports,  contributes  70 per cenrt to  its GDP and  is the source  of
livelihood to the 90 per cent of the covuntry's populatiorn that lives in
rural areas.   Against the t,ackground or a limited agricultural  land
base, the population is increasing at a rate of 3.4 per cent per annum;
its staple foods are sweet lpotato, taro and yam, but productivity is low
because  technical  inputs are  non-existent  and  traditional  cultural
practices still prevail.  As the populatUon increases, the food crop
cultivation cycle decreases; thus, in the suallholder traditional
farming  sestem,  the  soil  is  impoverished  and  rural  poverty  is
aggravated.   The main source of cash earning has traditionally been
copra, whose productivity in older plantations is declining at a time
when the- international price of copra has been continuously falling
since the peak of t979.   Vithin such a framework the focus of  the
Project  i.s on  increased  productivity  and  inconie  from  agricultural
productions through crop diversification and intensification.
Another major constraint to development is the scattered and
wides-iread location of populatloni over the country'. seven provinces
which   themselves   are   located, far  apart.    Trainsportation   and
communication facilities are limited and there are w-.de variatlons in
culture  and  language,  not  to  mention  differences  in  agro-climatic
features  and  soil conditions.  To cope with  such a  situation, the
Project is designed to develop appropriate infrastructuTe, with features
suited to local needs in each of the seven provinces, to help the local
population participate in its owE development and thereby provide the
means of producing and marketing more and better fooderops and earning
additional  cash  income.   It  is  the  policy  of  the  Government  to
decentralize its development program as expeditiously as possible;
however, resources and manpower are  limited nor is much experience
available  of  implementing  decentralized  development  programs.   The
Project is specifically designed to cope with these difficulties and to
proomote the Government's developiment strategy, but because of the
constraints, it has been kept modest in scale, its scope. including: (a)
the establishment of seven Rural Development Centers -- one in each of
the seven provinces, to provide the facilities necessary for stimulating
the  development  of  rural  settlements/villages;   (b)  strengthening
research in major agro-clinatic 2ones on staple and new foodcrops and
cash  crops;  (c)  strengthening  a-nd  improvement  of  the  training  of
extension personnel and farmers; (d) establishing an Agricultural
Infor-mation Unit; and (e} establishing a Project Implenentation Unit in
the Ministry of -Home Affairs and National Development, the Executing
Agencv for the Project.
The total cost of the Project, which will be implemented over
six years, is estimated at tUS$11.65 million comprising tTS95.93 million
in foreign exchange cost and USS5.72 million in local cost. of this,
external financing is estimated at the equivalent of ITSSln0.15 million.
The Bank will finance the equivalent of US$5.15 million coniprising
USS2.95 million in foreign exchange cost and the equivalent of USS2.20
million in local carTency cost.  IDA and IPAD will respectively fund the



equivatent of US$3.5 million and  1.5 million.   Taking  the type  of
Project components and Its implementRtion schedule into conslderation,
parallel F iiancing by the co-financiers is proposed.
The Project benefits  are both non-quantifiable  as well as
quantifiabl.e.    Benefits   from  Project  investment  in  agricultural
research, extension training and information, though immense, are
largely of long-term nature. For selected components of the Project on
which the returns are amenable to quantification, EfRR is high.   A
typical subsistence smallholder participating in the Project or taking
advantage of Project facilities would get a net benefit of US$181 per
Year.   The  :>roJect,  which  constitutes  Part  A  of  the  loan  for
Agricultural  Development  (Part  B  being  the  Livestock  Development
Project, also to be financed by the Bank) will provlde several other
benefits including additional employment, the participation of the rural
population, the creation of decentralized centers for economic and
social activities, the creation of an institutional base in the rural
areas, and the emergence of a trained and skilled supply of manpower.
The Project will thus have a multiplier effect in many fields of
economic and social development.
The  main  risks  likely  to  be  encountered  in  Project
implementation relate to:  (a) the availability of land for siting the
RDCs and other Project facilities; and (b) the implementation capacity
of the Government.
The  Project  incorporates  measures  to guard  against  these
risks.  The availability cf land has been reasonably well assured except
for two RDC sites where, nevertheless, given a little time, the
covernment is confident of acquiring the necessary land (it is proposed
to  start  these  two RDCs  in  the 4th year).   Consultancy  services,
training, fellowship, study tours, etc. have been provided in the
Project to meet the risk of manpower shortages.



*       (~~i)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaYe
~4P(ii,
I.      INTRODUCTION                                            1
II.      BACKGROUND                                              2
A.  Characteristics of the Rural Economy                2
B.  The Agricultural Sector                            3
C.  Marketing and Pricing of Agricultural Produce    4
D.  Constraints to Agriculture Development              5
E.  Agricultural Development Policy and Strategy       6
F.  The Project Area                                    7
III.      THE PROJECT                                             11
A.  Objectives and Scope                                11
B.  Project Description                                 11
C. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan                    18
D. Environmental Impact                                 22
E. Energy Impact                                        22
IV.      PROJECT INPL*IlENTATION                                 23
A. Executing Agency                                    23
B.  National Coordinating Group                        23
C.  Project Organization                               23
D.  Implementation Schedule                            24
E.  Project Implementation Arrangements                24
F.  Manpower Requirements                              26
G.  Procurement                                        27
R.  Imprest Account                                    28
I.  Account, Audits and Reports                        29
J.  Project Benefit Monitoring and
Evaluation (PBNE) Unit                            30
K.  Operation and Maintenance                          30
V.      PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                                   31
A.  Overall Justifi-.^ation                            31
B.  Benefits and Benoficiaries                         31
C. Economic Analysis                                   33
D. Project Risks                                        33
VI.      CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMENDATIONS                          34
LIST OF APPENDIXES                                      37



J                                          I                             I       *
SOLOMON ISLANDS
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT
J, ONTONG JAVA
ATOLL
o50     l00      150M3L5ss
aISEUL
Korovou
1    h           |           -      }           ~~~~~~~~~~~~SO UTH    PA CIFI C    OcEANX
. o ^ 9>ns D4 s I H~~~~~~AAMA 
¢ Ono   QK    SANTA YSA EL
fN\~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~O
¶O\     1   ~ |)IA 
t    ct;3t>XA       SusubetKaovat                        -RESEARCH SU0STATION'
NEW GEORGIA I                               FLORAI .         Kwkaru.
RENOOVA HARBOR                             ° C                          OMAAIIAA
-FARMERS' TRAINING CENTER     TrO           H                               - RLC
-RESEARCH SUBSTATION
HONIARANORTHWEST :PFNJN~SULA
eUADALCAXAL    /                   -RK                                   f'EEF IS
- AIU           /r      - J    r(C5\x Q o                            S^NTA-C-
V            - DODO CREEK  /   MARAU SOUNI              .kir                       --RDC- 
.UJt(} .  ) *IV       1S.A  RESEARCH                                                           - RIESEAr     =U 
EASTERN OUTER IS.
SUSTATINO
tw   £NNELL



- N ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       1
I.   INTRODUCTION
Concerned over the declining .productivity and income from
agricultural  products,  the  Government  requested  Bank's  technical
assistance in 1981 for a study on research, extension and support
facilities.   Thi7 technical assistance was approved by  the Bank  in
Septembex  1981.-    International  Services  for National  Agricultural
Research (ISNAR) from Netherlands was engaged to conduct the feasibility
study which began in October 1982 and was completed in December 1982.
The Bank received the final report in February 1983. In April 1982, the
Government requested another technical assistance for the establishment
of Rural Development Centers throughout the irntry.  The Bank approved
this  technical  assistance  in  July  1982.-    The  services  of  an
international consuLting firm (Development Alternatives, Inc. - U.S.A.)
were engaged for the conduct of a feasibility study which was completed
by the consultants during March-June 1983, the draft final report being
received by the Bank early in June 1983. Following the receipt of two
feasibility reports (on Research, Extension and Support Facilities and
Rural Development Centers) and the review by staff, a Bank Fact-Finding
Mission visited Solomon Islands from 30 May - 10 June 1983 to discuss
with the Government the main findings and recormmendations emerging from
two feasibility studies.  Considering the nature and scope of the two
projects and their implementation arrangements, it was considered
desirable to combine them into a single project for further processing
by che Government and the Bank.
2.        At the request of the Government, an Appraisal Mission visited
Solomon Islands from 3-20 July 1981.   The Mission comprised Messrs.
Harpal Singh (Mission Chief), Julius Ordona (Financial Analvst), Yathay
Pin (Project Engineer), K. Auckland (Agronomist), John Bevan (ExtensA..i
Training Specialist/Consultant), and H.M.A.B. Fernando (Agro-Processing
SpecialistJConsultant).  The Mission was later joined by Messrs. O.R.I.
Bako (Senior Country Officer), E. Suzuki (Senior Counsel), and S.C. Jha
(Manager).
3.        This  Report  is  based  on  a  review  of  the  consultants'
feasibility reports, the Mission's findings, discussions held with
concerned Government officials at various levels and field observations.
The Report shows some major deviations from the project scope and the
level of investment proposed in the two feasibility studies conducted
under  the two Bank-financed TAs mentioned  earlier.   The  feasibility
report on Agricultutal Research, Extension and Support Facilities had
proposed an investment of US$9.4 million, the ConsultaTnt'S Report on the
Rural Development Centers an investment of about US$11.0 million for the
establishment of lI RDC6 including enlarged  facilities.  Taking into
consideration the absorptive capacity of the Government, the nature and
scope of the Project vis-a-vis implementation capability includlng
manpower constraint, it was considered desirable to reduce the scope of
the Project in the manner now reflected in this Report.
I/   TA No. 413-SOL for US$150,000, 14 September 1981.
2/   TA No. 470-SOL for US$200,000, 16 Jnly 1982.



r I    R _ACKC.tOUNJ
A.   Characteristics of the RuTal Econo,y
4.        The country' s economy is basically rural.  About 90 per cent
of the ,otal population lives in villages. Although the overall density
of population is low at 9 persons per sq km, the inter-provincial
variations are large.  Amongst the rural population, the literacy rate
is  very  1;,. which  has  made  the  dissemination  of  knowledge  on
agricultural husbandry very difficult.  As the population is largely
concentres\ted in the narrow strips along the sea-coast, cultivable land
lying aloag these areas already shows signs of over-exploitation and
declining fertility.
5.        The  rural  population  is  distributed  over  5,000  rural
settlements/villages which on an average have a population of about 40
people.  F'ifty-four per cent of the villages are inhabited by less than
20 people each and 80 per cent by less than 50.  The low density of
population, the small size of rural settlements, and the sparse and
scattered locations of the dwellings, have significant implications for
economic development. Investment in social and economic infrastructures
becomes  high  in  relation  to  the  number  of  beneficiaries.   The
archipelagic nature of the country, combined with the widespread
dispersal of producer smallboldings, creates communication problems
which have an inhibiting effect on the movement of supplies and the
processing and marketing of farm produce so leading to farmers receiving
lower prices for their products than would otherwise have been the case.
6.        The total income of rural households comprises cash as well as
non-cash components. The main sources of non-cash income are foodcrops,
fish, timber and other farm, forestry and sea products. Cash income is
generated mainly  by  copra  sale.   Few  opportunities lexist  for cash
earnings :Ln villages. A survey conducted in 1974-19754- suggested that
only 7.4 per cent of the people in rural households had received cash
income from employment during the preceding 0 months.  On the basis of
available information, a World Bank Report- concluded that the per
capita cash income in rural areas Was about one-eighth of that in urban
areas. Whlen account is taken of subsistence production, the average per
capita income of urban Solomon Islanders (excluding expatriates whose
incomes are many times higher) is about twice the level in rural areas
and there is evidence that this disparity has widened in recent years.                  4
Disparity of income also exists between provinces: average cash income
per household in Malaita province Was only 26 per cent of income in the
I/  G. Eele, Ilinistry of Finance, Statistics Office: "1974-75
Agric.ultural Statistics Survey", published in 1978.
2/   World Bank, "The Solomon Islands - An Introductory Economic
REort", April 1980.



Western province. The difference in cash earning opportunities' can be
largely explained by the variations in land availability per household
for cash crop production and the distribution of foreign investment in
plantatlol agriculture and timber and fish.
7.        Disparities in income and employment opportunities, physical
separation and cultural diversity resulted in demands for provincial
autonomy. Rural people were, and still are, unaware of the development
opportunities potentially available to them as they are isolated from
the capital towns (central and provincial) where all major decisions are
taken.  In consequence, the Provincial Government Act 1981 was enacted
to devolve certain powers and responsibilities from the Central to the
Provincial Governments and at the same time strengthening the powers of
the provincial executive relative to the provincial assembly.  A certain
degree of ambiguity however remains concerning the division of functions
between the Central and Provincial governments. The extension service
comprising the staff recruited and paid by the provinces as well as
officers seconded by the Center has now come under the authority of
provincial governments.   This has given  rise  to  fears  in some  and
expectations in others. The provincialization of the extension service
has implications for the organization of suitable in-service and
pre-service training, the coordination of research and extension work
and the organization of effective communication flows both between the
central officers in-charge of extension and the provincial extension
staff and the smallholders and the extension staff within each provlnce.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
8.        Agriculture,   including  forestry,  fishery  and  livestock,
accounts for 70 per cent of the GDP, over 90 per cent of exports, and
provides one-third of total paid employment.  A vast tract of land is
under forest and cultivable land is limited. The average farm unit per
household consists of 0.15 to 0.25 ha of food garden and 1.5 to 2.0 ha
of coconut plantations. Subsistence food production, mainly of the root
crops, sweet potatoes (Kumara), taro and yam, forming the staple diet,
and  some vegetables,  is based  essentially  on a system  of shifting
agriculture or agriculture with bush fallow.  The total garden area Is
estimated at about 7,000 hectares.   Under the pressure of population
increase (3.4 per cent per annum\1and the need to earn some cash income,
the cycle of the fallow period-  is being shortened leading to soil
J    depletion and reduced yields though the latter is also attributable to
traditional cultural practices, non-adoption of improved crop varieties
and non-application of technical  inputs.   Considerable  scope clearly
exists to enhance food production, nutrition and income through the
application of technological improvements.
I/   The inter-crop fallow period which was earlier 15-20 years is
reported to have been shortened to 5-10 years. There is evidence
in many areas that under pressure of population, the smallholders
are resorting to almost continuous cropping.



-4-
9.       SSmallholder cash crop production is primarily of coconut, but
this is being gradaally supplemented by cocoas   Of the total area of
52,000   hectares   under   coconut,   about   38,000  hectares   are  of
smallhol.ders.  Plantations,, generally along the littoral rarely, extend
more thank four to tive km inland;  trees on the approximately 11,000
heetarer3 planted or replanted dfiring 1965-1977 under various subsidy
schemes are relatively yourig with promiise of higher output.  Elsewhere
trees are rather old and low yielding. According to a 1974/75 survey,
over 65 per cent of all rural households were involved in coconut
growing. Total production of copra on smallholder plantations is
estimated at 46,000 tons.  CoconIut is riot cnly a source of cash income
but also of food.  Of the total coconut producticn, about 30 per cent is
self-consumed, 50 per cent is exported and the remaining 20 per cent,
neither consumed nor made inta copra, is probably going to waste due to
lack of satisfactory harvesting, marketing and procesBing facilities.
10.       Smallholders account for about 70 per cent of the total export
of copra and to most of them, copra sale is the only source of cash
income. Static output coupled with consistently declining prices, have
led to a significant fall in the cash income of smallholder households
in  recent  years.   Increasing  population  and  falling  income  have
exacerbated the hardships of smallholders who in consequence, migrate in
increasing numbers to Honiara and other smaller urban centers.
I1.       Having  assessed  the  price  prospects  for  coconoit  and  the
potential for other crops and primary products, the Government achieved
commendable diversification of exports during the last decade; in
consequence, the share of copra in total exports declined from 93 per
cent in 1965 to only 14,.3 per cent in 1982. Fish, timber, palm oil and
rice, on the other hand, grew from almost zero to about four-fifth of
the total.  This diversification did not, however, significantly help
smallholders who scarcely participated in the expansion of timber, palm
oil, fish and rice production, commercial plantations accounting for the
bulk of timber, estates for palm oil and rice while local involvement in
fishing is limited. However, as the unit value index, not only of copra
but also of timber logs, palm oil and to a less extent fish, declined
after peaking in 1979, the benefits of the otherwise commendable export
diversification were limited; diversification was unfortunately achieved
within too limited a range of products.   Hence, even the benefits of
export diversification did not reach the smallholder.
C.   Marketing and Pricing of Agricultural Produce
12.       Most of the food produced by smallbolders does not travel far
from the garden where it originates.  Some is exchanged within kinship
groups, some bartered locally or sold at local markets.  About 30 per
cent of total coconut production is consumed within the family, the rest
(excluding the unharvested waste), after being dried into copra, is
transported by road or canoe to collection points for reshipment and
export. Under the Copra Board Ordinance (1953), the Copra Board was set



-5-
up to:  (i) secure the most favorable arrangement for the purchase,
grading, export and selling of copra produced; (iU) purchase such copra
and sell or export the same; and (iii) assist in the development of
copra and coconut products for the overall economic benefit.  Specific
powers of the Board include: (a) fixing of prices to be paid from time
to time to producers;  (b) purchase of copra directly or through an
agent; (c) selling of copra including marketing, cleaning, storing for
export, shipping, etc.; and (d) appointment of agents for the purchase,
storage and export of copra on behalf of the Board.  Its main function
is  to reduce  fluctuationsitin  producer  price by  smoothing  out  the
variations in export price- by building reserves when export prices
realizations are high and liquidating that reserve to supplement the
price received by the producer when export price is low (Appendix 1,
Table  1).  The Board thus helps  to cutshtion the indigenous producer
against wild fluctuations in the world price of copra.
13.       From February 1980, the Board has been implementinS a freight
equalization  policy  by  compensating  for  the  transport  cost  from
different zones into which the country has been divided for the purpose.
A Government Bill, scheduled for early introduction into Parliament,
proposes to widen the Board's scope to include all commodities and to
redesignate it as the Commodity Board.  Except for copra and cattle,
there is at present no fixing of agricultural commodity prices which are
left to settle solely by iarket forces.   The urban population being
small and largely concentrated at Honiara (the national capital),
markets within the country for crops other than copra are in any case
small, isolated and unorganized and both producers and consumers suffer
from the consequent wide variations in product prices; improvement in
the market structure is much required.
14.       General agricultural price policies are discussed in Appendix
2. In Appendix 1, Table 1, export prices of copra during 1971-81, shows
that prices, which were high in 1974, fell to a very low level in 1975,
but then rose to reach a peak in 1979.  In 1980, the price was 35 per
cent and in 1981 43 per cent lower than in 1979.  In 1982, the prices
fell a further 16 per cent below the already low level of 1981.  In the
second quarter of 1983 copra prices have, however, shown a trend of
recovery.  According to the latest World Bank projections (Appendix 1,
Table 2 - June 1983), price prospects of copra in the long-run are good.
D.   Constraints to Agriculture DevelopZent
15.      'While  there  is  need  to  increase  fooderop  output  in  the
subsistence sector by at least 3.4 per cent per annum to match the
population growth rate, research information is lacking on improved seed
varieties for different foodcrops that might be used to upgrade
cultivation in the various agro-climatic regions/provinces. Similarly,
1/   Ministry of Home Affairs and National Development, Honiara, Solomon
Islands, "Coconut Workshop", December 1981.



.there  is a  lack  of  tn forinatlon  at  pne.kuges  of  improved  cultural.
prnetfcen necesma,ry for reali Ling optimum yields and maximum benefits
frot  different  foodcrops.   Thus,  a  strengthened  and  well  organized
research effort on foodcTops in the main agro-clUmatic regions is needed
to generate the location specific information on foodcrop cultivation
that could help tap the vast unutilized yield potential known to exist
in varlous crops.
16.       Research on coconut and cocoa is largely being conducted in
the private  corporate  sector with  assistance  from  Government.   With
world copra prlces depressed slnce 1979, a need exists to diversify the
production of low-volume high unit-value cash crops to offset high
transportation costs. Though, crop, such as ginger, chillies, cardamom,
coffee, turmeric, would seen to have good prospects, research on them Is
negligtbl.e and confined to a single location when, in fact, research on
such alternative crops should equally be pursued in other agro-climatic
regions as well.
17.       Research  on  food  and  cash  crops  must be  strengthened  if
smallholder  farm  production  goals  are  to  be  realized,   Inadequate
extension support limits the dissemination of research findings.   At
field level, the extension service (consisting of Field and Village
Assistants) is extrem.ly weak both in terms of numbers and training.
There is no regular system  to ensure  the flow of information  from
research to extension and of feedback from farmers to research. There
is an urgent need to upgrade and Improve the training of the field
extension agency, to provide it with better amenities, such as housing
and equipment, and to arrange for the efficient flow of information
among research workers, extension agents and smallholders.
18.       Development is often restrained by the factor of tocation.
The provinces, being located widely, and the population per village
being sparse, the volume of crop production is small causing diseconomy
of scale in collection, processing, grading, and marketing of produce.
Diseconomies are also involved in the distribution, transport, storage
and sale of inputs, i.e., seed, planting taterials, insecticides, etc.
This justifies the need to develop nodally situated, multi-facility
growth cettere to meet the production, consumption9 education and skill
training needs of smallholders effectively.
F.   Agriciltural Development Policy and Strategy
19.       To  overcome  the  development  constraints  of  the past,  the
Government has adopted the strategy of establishing the required
infrastructure in the rural areas. The main thrust is on strengthening
the production base, through increased and diversified production, and
product and market diversification.   Agricultural extension is to be
upgraded so that knowledge of better seeds, crops, fertilizer and
planting  materials  may  be  disseminated.    In  addltion,   training
facilities will be provided to improve farmers' and fisherm.en's skills



7
and expertise. The strategy also calls 2or the devolution of power and
functions to the provincial governments and the development of improved
marketing infrastructure. In the subsistence sector, it calls for more
research to identify foodcrops for development and to extend knowledge
about them to producers, as well as for the organization of interisland
trade with appropriate  rural markets.   More  information on imnroved
cultivation pr6ctices is to be generai.ed on a variety of new crops and
extended to producers. This will require better processing, shipping,
marketing  and  quality  control.   The  production  program  is ,         be
supported by construction/improvements of rural roads and markets,
20.       The Government, however, finds it difficult to implement the
1981 ag-iL..!ltural and rural development policy and program of action.
In constant prices, while the recurrent expenditure of the Government
has grown by 14 per cent during 1979-82 (most of it between 1981 and
1982 when the economy as a whole did not grow at all), development
expendi Pre has fallen by 33 per cent in real terms in the same
period.-   There has been a significant rise in the salaries and other
benefits  of personnel.   On  the other  hand,  overseas  cash aid  for
development, paricularly from UK, the principal donor, declined sharply
from about US$9 million in 1978 to less than US$5 million in 1981.-
Irresistible pressure from increased recurrent expenditure, declining
foreign aid, and reduced earnings from export duties particularly since
1979, have compelled the Government to launch the agricultural
development program on a much reduced scale and in a phased manner. The
proposed Project  is  in line with the Government's  strategy  and  is
accorded high investment priority.
F.   The Project Area
21.       Of  the major  components  of  the Project,  i.e.,  (i)  Rural
Development Centers (RDCs); (ii) Agricultural Research; (iii) Extension;
and (iv) Agriculture Information, the Last three will serve the country
as a whole with long-term benefits. Therefore, the description of the
Project area, as normally provided, is not relevant here.   However,
since each of the seven proposed RDCs will have its primary area of
influence (though its benefits will nrt remain confined to this primary
area), some description of main characteristics of the site vicinities
is appropriate.   The  location  of  seven  RDCs  is  shown  in  the map
attached.
1.   Marau Sound (Guadalcanal Province)
22.       Marau  Sound  is  located  in  the  southeast  of  Guadalcanal
Province about 90 km from Honiara, the capital, by sea.  The area to be
1/   Government of Solomon Islands, "Programme of Action 1981-84", Nov.
1981 and "National Economic Development Policy", Dec. 1981.
2/   Central Bank of Solomon Islands, "Annual Report 1982", p. 11.
3/   Government of Solomon Islands - Ministry of Finance, 1982
Statistical Year Book.



-8-
covered by the RDC extends from the village of Msrau west along the
"weather coast'. Agriculture is confined to the narrow coastal belt and
inland for short distances along river valleys. The soils in the area
are sandy with low productivity.   Heavy rains give rise to frequent
flooding.
23.       Copra,   psoduced  by  smallholders  and  several  scattered
plantations, is the main product of the area.  Marketing problems arise
from lack of transport and storage facilities.  lta addition to the usual
garden foodstuffs, spices  such as turmeric,  ginger and vanilla are
currently being tested; with markets available, they could prove to be
an alternative cash crop.
24.       The area along the coastal belt and the inland waterways has a
high population, with about 4,000 people in the area to be covered by
RDC. The main obstacles to smallholder development are mark-et access,
storage facilities, knowledge of Improved coconut production and
improved food and cash crops. Population pressure on available land is
high. Scope exists for rural industries and fishing.
2.   Northwest Peninsula (Makira Province)
25.       The Northwest Peninsula is at the extreme northwest of Makire
Island close to two agricultural opportunity areas mieasuring 17,000 ha,
90 per cent of which is at present unused.  Cattle, cocoa and coconut
development projects are being promoted and financed by the Development
Bank of Solomon Islands (DBSI).
26.       The population of the Northwest Peninsula is estimated at
3,250. Most villages are along the coast, west and northwest of Arosi
plateau.  Although Interisland shipping reaches the site, smallholders
complain that their copra often gets spoiled waiting for ships to
arrive.  The area needs a road to connect the agricultural potential
areas to the wharf which itself needs reconstruction, storage and market
points, training and better extension on food and cash crop improvement.
3.   Afio-Rokera (Malaita Province)
27.       Afio-Rokera, population 4,375, is located  In the south of
Malaita, the most densely populated province, and is the site of Rokera
Agricultural Opportunity Area covering 2,800 ha of land.
28.       The regions of high population density are along the coast.
Copra production and marketing suffer from irregular shipping schedules.
Lack of operational support for extension service, the need to improve
marketing and shipping, and the desirability of integrating agricultural
opportunity and high population areas are among the major problems and
concerns of both smallholders and provincial officers. The Provincial
government ownes 114 ha of land under perpetual lease.



- 9 -
4.   Rendova Harbor (Western Province)
29.       Rendova Harbor site is proposed to be located at the northwest
tip of Rendova Island, south of Munda in the New Georgia Island Group.
The topographical features are characterized by coastal plains, alluvial
deposits,  raised  coral  terraces  and  steep  dissected  hills.   The
Provincial Government has recently acquired a 666 ha plantation
producing coconut and cocoa and raising, cattle with the intention of
making it a  focal point for agricultaral developmeat and training,
tak_..g advantage of its central locatAon and the representative land
system.  The natural harbor has two wharves which, though functional,
need repair.   At  the plantation,  some housing and other social and
economic  infrastructure  have  already  been  built.   The  Provincial
administration has recognized the potential of the site for addressing
smallholder concerns such as low coconut production, the fragile balance
between food and cash crops, training and plantation rehabilitation.
5.   Hakama (Central Island Province)
30.       Hakama is located in Ngella Pile (Small Gella) on the Mboli
passage.  Since soils are shallow, crop production would be limited to
shallow rooted crops. Land under coconut is scarce and production very
low. Both coconuts and foodcrops are produc'-d on steep hills.
31.       The population of Small Gella, estimated at 3,000, relies on
small urban centers such as Tulagi anel Honiara to provide employment.
Most of the wood canoes built by local villagers are m  keted In these
centers.  The Provincial Government has a small agricultural training
center at Hakama.   The existing natural resources and activities as
carried out by the smallholder disclose a serious need to improve the
quality and variety of gardens; to introduce high fibre protein
components into their diet; to teach them skills useful in their small
industries; to provide seed material for cash crops; and to develop
basic infrastructure to promote marketing and improve shipping.
6.   Susubona-Kaevanga (Isabel Province)
32.       Situated between Susubona village and the mid-portion of the
Octega Channel on the southern coast of Isabel Island, the site
comprises three minor development areas (Susubona, Kaipito and Kosisi)
covering  5,400  ha  of  land  of  low  soil  fertility.   Agricultural
development in Kaipito has been greatly stimulated by the road from
Kaevanga to Kolomola.  Coconut paddocks, cattle and cocoa development
projects,  peanuts  and  orange  provide  income  to  the  smallholder
population living along the road.
33.       The population of the Susubona-Kaevanga region is estimated at
975; its distribution is uneven with low overall density. Two wharves,
both in need of extensive repa:.r, serve the areas.  Shipping services
are erratic creating problems for smallholders producing copra.
Considering the size of the area to be benefited, the extension support
will be thin and inadequate.



-10-
7.   Santa Cruz - Reef islands (Temotu Province)
34.       Telnotu Province contains a number of well separated islands of
varying size. The proposed site contains the Graciosa Bay Agricultural
Opportunity Area covering close to about 18,300 ha of potentially medium
to good land. Agricultural activity ia mostly in the coastal plains.
Coconut production is low. Smallholders' food gardens mainly grow root
crops. The population to be served by the Project on Reef Islands
number about 3,000.  Overall, the relative isolation of the islands in
Temotu Province creates a serious transportation and logistical problems
that will affect the exploitation of development opportunities. There is
a seed garden and a research substation is being established at the
site.



- 11. -
111.   THE PROJECT
AL.   Objectives and Scope
35.       The broad objectives of  the Project are  twofold:   (i)  to
provide the rural people with the opportunity of effectively exploiting
available  land  and  human  resources  in  the  pursuit  of  increased
productivity and income and improved standards of living; and (ii) to
develop and expand Government's capability to provide agricultural
support services and facilities over a vider area.  Within the above
objectives, the project aims (a) to generate and extend information
concerning the diversification of food and cash crop systems and to
increase production through a mix of services and inputs; and (b) to
create centers of activity which will help market, process, store and
transport produce, to train local people in improved techniques of
agricultural  production  and  to  assist  the.n  to  take  up  allied
agro-industry  activities.   Further,  the  PToject  will  provide  an
institutional base facilitating smallholder participation in local
development.
36.       To meet the above objectives, the Project scope will broadly
constitute:  (i) establishment of seven Rural Development Centers and
their proper equipping with necessary services and facilities; (ii) the
establishment   of  research,   extension,   information   and   training
facilities; and (iii) the provision of facilities and services for
project implementation. The details of the Project scope are as follows:
B.   Project Description
37.       The  facilities  to  be  developed  under  various  Project
components are described in the following paragprahs.
1.   Rural Development Centers
38.       The Project will provide for the establishment and equipping
of seven Rural Development Centers (RDCs) with one RDC in each of the
seven provinces of the country.  These will act as growth centers or
growth foci in the respective rural areas helping to stimulate the
multi-faceted development of the neighborhood villages. The selection
of sites for establishiag RDCs has been based inter alia on (a) the
availability of land for developing site facilities as well as
agricultural demonstratlon plots, etc.; (b) the presence of a
concentrated smallholders population able to take advantage of the RDC;
(c) potential for future development; and (d) availability or otherwise
of  complementary  infrastructure  -  existing  and  planned.   In  the
selection of sites as well as of facilities to be provided, the officers
of the provincial governments, village chiefs and other village people
were  consulted.  It  is, however,  desirable  to retain  a degree  of
flexibility on the actual siting of SDCs and the provision of various



- 12 -
inrtriotrtLeture sand faciLitiee to nllow modOfications to be made as the
Project proceeds.  The exact sites of RDCe will, where necessary, be
reconfirmed by the Government in consultation with the Bank. Given such
fLexibility, the Project provides for the siting of RDCs at the
following places:
Rendova Harbor .n Western Province
Marau Sound in G2adalcanal Province
Afio-Rokera in Malaita Province
Northwest Peninsula in Makira Province
Santa Cruz in Temotu Province
Susubona-Kaevanga in Isabel Province
Hakama in Central Province.
39.       The Rendova Harbor RDC wil'. also have a Fanmer Training Center
(FTC) relocated from its present site at Barakoma, under the extension
component of the Project.  The RDC at Santa Cruz will also complement
and strengthen the activities of a coconut seed garden and a research
sub-station which it is proposed to set-up under the research component
of the Project.
40.       The Project will provide at a central place at each RDCs such
facilities  as  housing,   internal  roads  and   sheds,   classrooms,
dormitories, demonstration farm plots, stores, machinery, equipment for
training smallholders and extension staff, office with furniture, radio
for communications, canoe and tractors.  The site-specific facilities
that the Project will  finance,  are  given  in Appendix  3.   A brief
description of the facilities grouped under different categories
according to impact follows:
(a) Production, Processing and
Marketing Facilities
41.       To expand the smallholders production base and to facilitate
the processing and marketing of produce available in different places
around the Centers, the Project will encompass various facilities for
demonstrating improved techniques of production and processing and
providing facilities to the smallholders, for marketing, storage, drying
and fermenting, shipment, etc. Some infrastructure under this component
will address itself to training and imparting skills in non-farm
occupations such as small rural industries, engine repairs, wood work,
saw milling, boat construction, etc.
42.       The following specific facilities will be provided under this
sub-component:
(i)  construction of storage facilities at Marau Sound and
Northwest Peninsula; and
development of market and collection points;



- 13 -
(11)  lnisteIat:ion of coprn dIryers, cocoa dryers and fermenters
at Rendova Hiarbor, Afio-Rokera, Santa Cruz sad Subuwova-
Kaevanga;
(iii)  provision of tractors with trailers at six RDCs i.e,
Rendova Harbor, Marau Sound, Afio-Rokera, Northwest
Pen.insula, Santa Cruz and Susubona-Kaevanga and of sail
boats only where necessary such as at Afio-Rokera and
Marau Sound;
(iv)  rehabilitation of a provincial plantation of about 80 ha
at Rendova Harbor to yield more production and income,
(v)  provision of portable saw mills at Rendova Harbor, Afio
Rokera, Northwest Peninsula, Santa Cruz and Susubona-
Kaevanga; and
(vi)  construction of appropriate technology centers at Marau
Sound, Santa Cruz and Hakama with facilities for repair
and skill training in various rural crafts and artisanal
trades.
(b) Transport Infrastructure
43.       Transport -- both by land and sea -- constitutes a serious
bottleneck to the full exploitation of the Agricultural Opportunity
Areas, the collection and transport of copra and the supply of improved
plants and seeds and dissemination of extension and infonnation.  The
Project will provide the following facilities:
I)  construction of a road 4 m wide at Northwest Peninsula
(18 kis) and at Susubona (6 kms);
(ii)  rehabilitation of existing wharves at Rendova Harbor,
Afio-Rokera and Susubona-Kaevanga, and construction of
new wharves at Northwest Peninsula and Hakama; and
(iii)  provision of a rubber wheel Bulldozer for the maintenance
of the coastal road at Marau Sound.
(c)  Training and Consultancy
44.       The Project provides for necessary consultancy and training
for  supporting  its  RDC  component.   Short-term  consultancy  of  10
mammonthb in the fields of village arts and crafts and community
organizations, etc. will be funded by the Project.
45.       In addition to the above, other suitable activities may also
be undertaken within the framework of the overall objectives of the
Projects. As can be seen from Appendix 3, however, all the above cited
activities are not being undertaken at all the seven RDCs.



- 14 -
(d) Apolication of Appropriate Technology
46.       The three RDCs at Marau Sound, Santa Cruz, and Hakama, which
will provide training courses and facilities on appropriate technology
application, will be staffed by skill training specialists and will.
provide workshop facilities 80 as to help villagers to acquire skills in
carpentry, mechanics and related fields that will tontribute to
increased productivity in the villages.  Other possible skills might be
the  development  of  water  supply  and  sewage  systems,  building
kionstruction, fabrication of furniture and farm equipment, and repair of
small engines and other equipment.
47.       The "Appropriate Technology"  to be  tried by the RIDC will
include ideas and methods designed to develop creative technical skills
that will fit into the village environment harmoniously. Emphasis will
thus be placed on the use of water, solar and wind power (in sailboats)
as sources of energy for encouraging the maximum use of locally
available inputs, and contributing to the enhanced economic capacity of
the villages.
2.   Agricultural Research and Extension
(a) Agricultural Research
48.       The Government's agricultural research activities have been
centered at Dodo Creek Research complex and its field experiment station
at Tena-ru in Guadalcanal Province, since 1975. The research prograns,
organized by disciplines (soil science, agronomy, pathology, entomology,
plan breeding) across crops, has been directed mainly at the genetic
improvement of the staple root crops, the control of pests and diseases
in food and cash crops and the investigation of nutrTient inputs required
for optimum growth and production of food crops.
49.       The  following  significant  gaps  in  agricultural  research
remain however:
(i) the failure to undertake research on whole farming
systems and the dearth of socio-economic base-line
data on smallholder production systems within the
different provinces of Solomon Islands;
(ii) the lack of multilocational adaptive research in
agro-climatic environments other than the Guadalcanal
plains;
(iii) the neglect of research into crop diversification and
the economics of new crop production; and
(iv) the lack of a dynamic agricultural research policy
for Solomon Islands.



- 15 -
50.      tNotwithst&nding these gape, the ongoing agricultural research
program is basically sound and warrants support to increase its
capability of makling an effective, contribution to the agricultural
development  of  Solomon  Islands.-    The  Project,  which  has  been
fonmulated to achieve this, end, thus provides for:
(1)  improvement and expansion of the research facilities at
Dodo Creek Research Station and Tenaru Pield Experiment
Stations; and establishment of four adequately equipped
and well managed research sub-stations sited in differing
agro-clitytic environments outside the Guadalcanal
plains;-
(ii)  consultancy services of an Agricultural Economist
(36 manmonths), a Foodcrop Agronomist (36 mannouths),
and in various specialized disciplines (for about 9 man-
months); and
(iii) provision of overseas staff study tours and conference
attendance (10 man-months) and inter-island travel.
5I.       The agricultural research component will also include: (a) the
provision of new offices, laboratories, a libTary, a workshop, resthouse
for visiting agricultural research scientists, staff and laborers'
houses etc.
(b)  Agricultural Extension
52.       Traditionally, eltension services in Solomon Islands bave been
target-oriented and have promoted the development of individual cash
crops usually by a coiibiration of grants and subsidies.  Often, these
have taken the form of subsidized or free planting materials and/or
fertilizers.   Emphasis has  also been placed on individual crops as
against the whole faraming system.  Many of the present staff of the
extension service have been poorly trained within a system which
over-emphasized the specific crop and target approach.   It wiLl not
therefore be easy for them to change their approach and develop a new
focus viewing the farming system as a whole within which specific
components can be streesed at any particular time.  In addition, the
recent devolution of reBponsibility for extension work on the provinces
emphasized the need to expand and improve training facilities for the
extension staff  and at  the  Farmer  Training  Centers.   Further, the
extremely poor housing and demonstration equipment available to the
extension personnel has produced a feeling of frustration in the service
whose present training, Morale and logistic support is inadequate to
I1   See Appendix 4 for present status of research and rationale for
strengthening and expansion.
2/   See Appendix 4, Chart 2 for details of the location of research and
sub-research stations and the soil cLimatic characteristics of the
locations.



- 16 -
enable It to successfully undertake the tasks involved in improving the
produiction, income and standard of living of a smatlholder population
spread thinly throughout the country.
53.       lTo  reaLi.e  the  objective  of  providing  better  traixning
facilities relating to the new focus on farm systems, including even
livestock, and to improve the conditions of living and work, the Project
will provide  for the  following  components:   (Detairs of  rationale,
existing set-up, constraints, components and NATI are given in Appendix
5).
(a) Establishment of a National Agricultural
Training Institute (NATI) at Dala
(Malaita Province)
54.       The Project will establish the National Agricultural Training
Institute (NATI) at Dala in Kalaita Province and provision will be made
for the establishment of a research sub-station of the Center under its
research component.  The provincial government already owns about 100
hectares of land under 100 years lease with 43 years still to run and
renegotiable if necessary. The Project will finance:
-    The construction and/or rehabiltiation of offices,
4 dormitory block for 24 trainees, a lecture room,
a library, a mess block, workshops and staff houses;
-    Provision of farm, office and transport equipment,
and teaching materials and equipment; and
-    Provision of the services of an expatriate Principal,
one deputy as under study and two other teaching staff.
55.       In its early years, NATI will offer (a) twd courses a year of
2 to 3 months duration providing basic pre-service training for about 40
Field Assistants/Dewonstrators; (b) 4 refresher courses per year of 2
weeks duration for 80 existing staff; and (c) 10 courses per year of l
week duration for 150 advanced smallholders. Later, hovever, the aim is
to provide training leading to a certificate/diploma in agriculture
geared to the specific needs of the country.  At present, the country
has to send people to Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Australia, etc. for such
courses.
(b) Relocation of a Farmer Training Center
(FTC) from Barakomu to Rendova Harbor
56.       Four FTCs  in Solomon Islands provide both in-site and in-
village  training for farmers as well  as for the village extension
workers - the lowest extension functionary at the village level.  One
such FTC, at Barakoma in the 'Western Province, is on land whose lease
expires in 1985.   Since the smallholders want their land back,  the
existing FTC will have to be relocated.  The Project will, therefore,
support relocation of the FTC at Rendova Harbor where Governuent owned
developed



- 17 -
land of 666 ha is already available together with other facilitlel. The
FeTC will also benefit from the location of the RIOC and th  ReeL3arch
Sub-station  proposed  under  the  Project.   Funding  will  include  the
construction of an office, a 24 bed-dormitory, a lecture room, a mess
block and six staff houses; and provision of farm and teaching
equipment.
(c) Provision of Facilities for Field Assistants
57.       To attract people into the extension service and provide them
with  adequate   status,  particularly   at  village   level,  suitable
accommodation is required  for Field Assistants.  In many cases, the
absence of suitable accommodation in the villages has resulted in people
leaving the service or in low morale among those who continue to live
under difficult working conditions. The Project will, therefore, fund:
(a) construction of 30 houses for Pield Assistarnts; and (b) the
provision of 60 sprayers and a range of agro-chemicals to cover five
years of field of demonstration.
(d) Training and Consultancy
58.       The  Project  provides  for  the  services  of  an  expatriate
Principal of NATI for 48 manmonths and 6 manmonths of fellowships.
During  this  period,  a  local Vice  PrincipaL-designate  will  receive
on-the-job training before taking over as Principal.
3.   Establishment of an Agricultural
Information Unit (AIU)
59.       An Agricultural Informatiorn Unit (AIU) functioned until the
early 70s when, despite the continuing need for it, budgetary cutbacks
caused  its  closure.   At  present,  there  is  little  linkage  between
research and extension, and between research and the farmers. The need
is strongly felt for (a) popularized exposition of specific findings and
handbook type reference materials for field extension staff and farmers;
(b) development of training aids for extension and farmers; (c)
expertise in programming use of radio and other media to explain and
support development programs; and, of central importance, (d) expertise
In producing or arranging for the production of effective public
informationi materiAls. With the high rate of adult-illiteracy and the
inaccessibllity of several locations/villages, it is necessary that
smallholders should be approached through communication medi& such as
simple posters, radio talks, etc.  The specific tasks of the AIU will
thus be organized into three areas: receiving essential Inputs; sharing
and coordinating information within the organization; and moving the
output to extension personnel, farmers and, where possible, others. The
last is the area in which the AIU would be most used. The Project will
support the establishment of an AIU at Honiara in the NHAND with
facilities for an office, printing, transport and information processing
and retrieval.



- 18 -
60.       The Project will provide for the services of an expstriate
Agricultural Information  Specialist (36 man-onths),  two Infornation
Assistants,  overseas  staff study tours and training fellowships  (30
man-months) and travel.
4.   Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
61.       The Project,  comprising the establishment and operation of
Rural Development Centers, the strengtheniug of a research station and
the  establishment  of   four  research  s'.ib-stations.  one  National
Agricultural Training Institute, the reloc.ation of one Farmer Training
Center and the establishment of an Agricultural Lnformation Unit in a
coordinated and timely marner, wiLl necessitate the establishment of a
Project Implementatiori Unit (PIU). It will be headed by a local Project
Director  assisted  by  two  expatriates:   one  Project  Adviser  (36
man-months) and one  consultant  on  Engineering and Conetruction  (24
man-months).   Some  aduministrative  support will  be  provided  to  PIU
including an Administrative Officer, typist/clerk, driver, transport,
etc. Further details of the functions of PIU are given in Chapter IV.
The Terms of Reference of all the consultants In the Project are in
Appendix 6.
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
1.   Cost Estimates
62.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$11.65 million
equivalent of which about US$5.93 million  (50.9 per cent) will be
required as foreigrn exchange cost and about US$5.72 million (49.1 per
cent) equivalent will be required as local currency cost.  The cost
estimates are sun=marized in Table 1 below.  Detailed cost estimates are
shown in Appendix 8. The cost estimates are inclusive of seTvice charge
during construction on the Bank's loan and are without taxes and duties.
The cost estimates are also inclusive of the maximum balance amount of
US$50,000 to be recovered from the technical assistance of US$200,000
provided by the BayY.  The exact amount would be determined after final
accounts are made.-
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 7.



- 19 -
Table It  Suuaraitet Cost s        tInates
(US$' 000)
Foreign      Local                   Per Cent
I__________ t.  a n           Exchanme    Curretncy      Total      of Total
A,.  Rural Develo'nnt Center
1.  Center facilities                          513          784      1,297         11.1
2.  Production, procesBing
and warketing                          204           59        263          2.3
-    3. Transport infrastructures                    163          276        439          3.8
4.  Training asd consultancy                   285          204        489          4.2
5. Operating costs                             305          545        850          7.3
Subtotal (A)                    1,470        1,868      3,338         28.7
B.  Research and Extension
1.  Research stations                          394          413        807          6.9
2.  Farmers' training center                    71           79        150          1.3
3,  Field Assistants' housing                  118          168        286          2.4
4.  National Agricultural
Training Institute                      135          163.      298          2.6
5.  Training and consultancy                   927          102      1,029          8.8
6.  Operating costs                            336          591        927          8.0
Subtotal (B)                    1.981        1,516      3,497         30.0
C.  Agricultural Information U'nit
i.  Civil works and equipment                   42           34         76         0.7
2.  Training and consultancy                   291           32        323          2.8
3.  Operating costs                             55           87        142          1.2
Subtotal (C)                      388          153        541          4.7
D.  Project Inplementation Unit
1.  Equipment                                   45            5         50         0.4
2.  Consultancy                                561          139        700          6.0
3.  Operating costs                             70          210        280          2.4
Subtotal (D)                      676          354      1S,030         8.8
Tctal Base Cost (A + B + C 4 D)          4,515        3,891     8,406         72.2
Physical Contingency a/                   284          490        774          6.6
Price Escalation b/                       931        1,339      2,270         19.5
Service Charge during Construction         150         -          ISO          1.3
Recovery of part cost of Preparatory
Technical Assistance c/                  SO                     5           0.4
Total Project Cost             53930         5,720     11.650        100.0
aI/  Physical contingencies are calculated at 15 per cent of civil works and staff
costs, and 10 per cent of equipment and other recurrent costs.
b/  Price escalatioxn is calculated at 8.0 per cent for 1983, 7.5 per cent for 1984,
7.0 per cent for 1985 and 6.0 per cent per annum thereafter for foreign exchange
costs; and at 8.0 per cent pet annum for 1983 and 1984, and 6.0 per cent per
annum thereafter for local currency costs.
cJ  Represents an allowance for naxiramu  anount recoverable pending establishment
of actual cost incurred.



20
2.   Proposed Financin an
63.       The packaging of financing arrangementi  is given in Table 2.
Tn the light of the nature of the Project wherein the different major
cotlponentr4, i.e. RTCs, Agricultural Research, NAT!, FTC,ATU, etc. are
(though Integrated) to be independently implomented, it is proposed that
parallel financing arrangerm-ents be made with IDA and IFAD.  In view,
however, of the integrated nature of the various components, it would be
desirable to ensure that funds from the no-financiers become available
irn tlme. Government has given an aosurance that it would make other
arrangements to commit necessary funds lp/ case of unavailability or
delays of funds froa other co-financiers.-   Taking the preference of
co-financiers into consideration, the financing arranL-ments will be on
the following lines:
IDA: Establishment and equipping of Research Station
and four Research Sub-Stations, establishment of
an Agricultural Information Unit, and construction
and equipping of residential accommodation for
Field Assistants (Extension).
1FAD:Establishment and equipping of the National Agricultural
.5raining hnstitute (WATI) and the relocation of the
?armer Training Center (FTC) from Barak.oma to Rendova
Harbor in Western Province.
1/   loan Agreemiient, Schedule 8, Para 22.



- 21 -
'I'abLe 2.  Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
ADB  IDA  IFAD   Gov't.  Total
A,  Rural Development Centers
Foreign exchange               2.12                       2.12
Local currency                  1.90             0.98    2.88
Subtotal                  4.02              0.98    5.00
B.   Agricultural Research and Extension
1.   Research
Foreign exchange                   1.44                 1.44
Local currency                     1.06        0.13    1.19
Subtotal                       2.50         0.13    2.63
2.   National Agricultural
Training Institute
Foreign exchange                        0.80    -      0.80
Local currency                          0.47   0.12    0.59
Subtotal                             1.27   0.12    1.39
3.   Farmers' Training Center
Foreign exchange                        0.12    -      0.12
Local currency                          0.11   0.03    0.14
Subtotal                            0.23   0.03    0.26
4.  Field Assistants' Housing
Foreign exchange                  0.15          -      0.15
Local currency                    0.21         0.02    0.23
Subtotal                       0.36         0.02    0.38
C.   Agricultural Information Unit
Foreign exchange                     0.47         -       0.47
Local currency                       0.17        0.04    0.21
Subtotal                       0.64         0.04    0.68
D.   Project Implementation Unit
Foreign exchange               0.83                       0.83
Local currency                 0.30              0.18    0.48
Subtotal                  1.13              0.18    1.31
Total
Foreign exchange               2.95 2.06 0.92             5.94
Local currency                 2.20 1.44 0.58   1.50    5.72
Total                     5.1' 3.50 1.50   1.50   11.65
Per cent of total            44.20 30.00 12.90 12.90  100.00



- 2a -
D.   Environmental Impact
64.       Although the country has a very low population density, most
settlement is concentrated in coastal areas where, in consequence, there
is some evidence of over-use of soll and depletion of its nutrient
contents.   The present smallholder  farming practice,  including that
followed in tree-crops plantations and food gardens under shifting
cultivation, has resulted in poor land management in certain places.
The Project, with its components of agricultural research, extension,
agricultural information, and Rural Development Centers should help to
develop and disseminate information to smallholders on the whys and hows
of maintaining soil cover and fertility, and of adopting crop rotations
and farming systems that replenish soil fertility and improve soil
profile. The adoption of nutritive leguminous and green vegetables by
smallholdezs will improve the nutritive value of Solomon Islanders'
diets, thus promoting the health and well being of old and young alike.
The  Project  should  certainly  have  a  beneficial  effect  on  the
environment.
E.   Energy Impact
65.       The energy requirements of the Project will include that used
during the conszructlon phase and needed to operate and maintain Project
facilities.   It is estimated that during the Project implementation
period (year 1-6) about 6.3 GWh will be required or an equivalent of
3.800 bbl of petroleum fuel.   From year 7 onwards the operation of
Project facilities will require about 1.0 GWh per year.  The energy
output of the Project will be in the form of the calorific content of
the incremental agricultural production.   Starting in year 11 it is
estimated that the amount of incremental production due to better
varieties of sweet potato and taro will begin to be realized, resulting
in a positive net energy balance every year thereafter.



-23-
TV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Executing Agency
66.       The Ministry of Home Affairs and National Development (MHAND)
will be the overall Executing Agency for the implementation of the
Project.l/ The organizational chart of the Ministry is given in
Appendix 9.
B.  National Coordinating Group (NCG>
67.       As  the  Project   includes  coaponents  necessitating   the
coordination of more than one agency such as the ministries of Finance
and Transport, Conmunications and Government utilities, the National
Planning,Office, Provincial Ministries, the Copra Board, etc. as well as
cooperation from the land owners of Project sites for its efficient
implementation, a Natinal Coordinating Group (NCG), chaired by the
Permanent Secretary, MHAND, will be set up at central level.2/  The
Project Director who will head the Project Implementation Unit (PtU)
will be the ex-officio Secretary of the NCG responsible for raising
issues for debate  and  resolution.   The  Group  will  coordinate  the
activities of both this and the parallel Project on Livestock
Development though separate sub-committees will be established for each
Project under the Chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, MHAND, to
st.etain the interest and active participation of those concerned.31
Major policy and operational guidelines for Project execution will be
initiated and monitored by the NCG.
C.   Project Organization (PIU)
1. Project Implementation Unit
68.       PIU will be set up ia. the MHAND on a full-time basis to plan,
implement and supervise the different activities and components of the
Project in a coordinated and timely manner.  It will be headed by a
Project Director who will be a senior local officer with experience in
the management of multi-component development projects, involving
coordination both with different agencies and with the provinces.4/ As
the Project includes provincial inputs and coordination with provincial
secretaries, it is considered necessary that the Project Director be
recruited in Level 10 5/ of the salary scales.  The Project Director
will report to the Permanent Secretary, MHAND, and will be responsible
for the planning, coordination and implementation of th Project.6/ The
I/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 1.
2/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 1.
3/ Loan Agreement, Schedul.e 8, para 2.
4/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 3.
5/ The salary scales in Solomon Islands are divided into different
levels beginning from Level 1 to Level 11. Level 10 is the salary
scale generally held by Under Secretaries to Ministries and
Provincial Secretaries. Permanent Secretaries are in the L-11 or
super scale.
6/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 4.



-24-
job requirements and qualifications of the Project Director are given at
Appendix 7.
69.       The organizational chart of the PIU is given at Appendix 10.
The Project Director will be assited by two expatriates -- one Project
Adviser  for overall  Project management with  experience of  directly
managing rural development projects and one consultant on engineering
and construction.l/  In addition, the PiU will have its own nucleus
administrative support staff comprising one procurement officer, one
administrative officer and four supporting staff, typists, driver, etc.
D.   Implementation Schedule
70.       The Project will be implemented over a period of six years
from the date of loan effectiveness. The first six months will be spent
on the establishment of PIU (recruitment of the Project Director and PIU
Staff), recruitment of Project consultants inlcuding the Project Advisor
and the Engineering and Construction Consultants and initiation of the
PBME baseline survey. The training of PIU staff, preparation of tender
documents for procurement, procurement of equipment and supplies in
consuLtation with the provincial governmetns, will be undertaken during
the preparatory stage. All construction activities planned for the same
site, such as the construction of the research substation and RDC in
Santa Cruz, will be coordinated during the same construction period.
The phasing and implementation schedule of the various components are
given in Appendix 11.
E.   Project Implementation Arrangements
1.   Rural Development Centers (RDCs)
71.       For  the first  two years,  the Project Director,  with  the
assistance of the expatriate Project Adviser, should be able to
supervise the establishment of two RDCs.  In the third year, as the
number of EDCs to be established and operated increases, a manager of
RDCs will be appointed to look after the RDC component.  Work on the
establishment of the first RDC at Rendova Harbor will begin at the
beginning of the second year. Work on the Susubona Kaesanga and Hakama
RDCs is scheduled to start In the fourth year to allow sufficient time
for processing  land acquisition.   The RDC at Santa Cruz  in Temotu
Province will also be initiated at the beginning of the fourth year as
the site is far from Hioniara and the Government believes that experience
gained overtime is needed before its establishment should start.  In
view of the island's wide dispersal, a period of about two to three
years is considered necessary to complete the construction and equipping
of each RDC. Availability of Land with the Goverment for the siting of
RDC facilities either owned or acquired under long term lease is
reasonably well assured at five out of seven sites proposed for
establishing   RDCs.    In   the   remaining   two   sites,   i.e.,   at
Susubona-Kaevanga and Hakama, the provincial governments assured that
the land for the site would be acquired though it may take sometime
before all the formalities are completed. The RDCs at these two sites
will thus be established later in the fourth year of the Project.
I/   Loan Agreenent, Schedule 8, para 5.



-25-
Government has undertaken to ensure that the required land will be made
tivail;alhte, before the start of constrnction. free from any impediment.l/
The  exact  sites of  RDCs wilL,  where  necessary,  be  reconfirmed  in
consultation with the Bank.
72.       The input of provincial government in regard to the siting and
operation of the RDCs is regarded as crucial. At provincial level, the
provincial Secretary will, enlist and coordinate the support and
involvement of all concerned officers and local level officials as well
as non-officials in siting and operation of RDCs2/ and may constitute a
coordinating body at the provincial level. Each RDC will have a Project
Officer or Project-in-Charge in Level 5.3/ As the Project progresses,
the Borrower may, in consultation with the Bank, decide alternative
forms of management of RDCs.
73.       The  involvement  of  smallholders  and  other  rural  people,
including women and youth, in the planning and implementation of each
RDC and  its activities  is central  to  the  success of the Project.
Without imposing direction from above, it is anticipated that a council
or association of rural households with eventual representation of rural
women and youths will he formed to:  (a) plan various activities and
facilities at the RDC site; (b) provide feedback about the users' views
and suggestions to modify the program; and (e) to disseminate the
meaning and concept of RDC.
2.   Research and Extension
(a) Research Component
74.       The Chief Research Officer (CRO) in the M!AND is in charge of
all agricultural research activities under the Under Secretary (Agri.).
He will become responsible for implementing the research component of
the Project under the direction of the Project Director. As far as the
implementation of Project component on research is concerned, the CR0
will be under the Project Director.4/  In technical matters, however,
the CR0 will receive guidance and direction from the Under Secretary
(Agri.).
(b)  Extension
(i) Establishment of the National Agricultural
Training Institute (NATI)
75.       The  Chief  Field  Officer  (CFO)  under  the Under  Secretary
(Agri.) is in charge of all extension activities in the country. He is
assisted by the Principal Field Officer and the Senior Field Officer
(Education and Training). The existing team of CFO will implement the
NATI component of the Prnject and for this purpose, CFO will be
responsible to the Proiect Director.  As in the case of research, as far
as technical matters such as course content, period of training, are
concerned, the CFO will seek guidance from the Under Secretary (Agri.).
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 18.
2/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 14.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 13.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, paras 6 and 7.



-Z6-
The Project will provide for the recruitment of an expatriate Principal
of NATI, to assist the CFO and the Project Director in the establishment
of NATI, design courses, formulate methods of training and review and
coordinate the training provided by NATI, FTC, etc.l/ In the meantime,
but as early as possible, a suitable Principal-designate should be
recruited and appointed as Deputy Principal for on-the-job training. On
the expiry of a 48 months contract period. the expatriate Principal2/
will  leave  and  the  local  Deputy  Principal  will  take  over.   The
qualifications and joe requirements of the expatriate Principal are
given in Appendix 7.
(il) Relocation of Farmer Training Center at
at Rendova Harbor
76.       In the case. of VATI, the CFO will be responsible for the
relocation of the FTC from Barakoma to Rendova Harbor in coordination
with the provincial staff. Where the implementation of this component
of the Project is concerned, the CFO will again be accountable to the
Project Director.31
(iii)  Rousing for Field Assistants CExtensiou)
77.       As In the case of the other extension components in the
Project, CFO, in consultation with the Principal Field Officer-in-Charge
of provinces, will select the sites of FA's housing. Priority will be
given to aras where housing is a serioas problem with adverse effects on
the efficiency of extension staff. For this component also, CFO will be
accountable to the Project Director and will work under his guidance.41
3.   Agricultural Information Unit (AIU)
78.       AIU will be set up at Honiara in the Agriculture Division of
KHMW.   The Project  Director with assitance from  the Senior Field
officer (Education and Training) will implement this component. As soon
as possible, however, an expatriate Agriculture Information Specialist
will be appointed for three years. His responsibilities will include
assistance in establishing AIU as indicated in his 7erms of Reference at
Appendix 6. During the period, a local person will be sent for training
in Agriculture Information so that he may take over as Senior
Agriculture Information Officer when the services of  the expatriate
Agricultural Information Specialist are completed.5/
F.  Manpower Requirements
79.       Apart from the requirement for consultants which have been
discussed  in  Chapter  III  under  the  respective  components,  the
incremental staffing needs of the Project for all components are
modestly set at 47 professionals at job classification levels 4 and
above. If Level 4 posts, which include Field Assistants, were excluded
from the category of professional staff, the requirement of the Project
-,'uld be reduced to only 25.  The breakdown of all the essential
I/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, paras 6 and 8.
2/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, paras 6 and 9.
31   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, paras 6 and 10.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, paras 6 and 11.
5/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, paras 6 and 12.



-27-
staffing requirements from Levels 2 to 10 is given in Appendix 12.  1In
the hissiom'a view,  persons  In the required numbers  should  liot be
difficult to recruit but that recruitment will have to be planned
carefully by the PIU during the preparation phase. The post of Project
Director in Level 10 is crucial to the success of the Project.
G.  Procurement
80.       The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be responsible for
the procurement of all goods and services required under the Project.
1.  Equipment and Materials
81.       The procurement of equipment, vehicleG and materials und&x the
Bank! loan will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
on Procurenent except for s3ome minor itemsl/ which will be obtained
through off-the shelf procurement.   Where appropTiate,  equipment and
supplies for the Project vlll be ordered in bulk and stored until actual
site   implementation   takes  place.    Before   the  commencement  of
procurement, PIU will furnish the Bank with a list of goods and
equipment to be procured and the proposed grouping of such goods and
equipment under the Bank loan. The total base cost of the equipment,
vehicles and materials to be procured through International Competitive
Bidding and International Shopping is estimated at about US$450,000.
Minor  items  and  materials  to  be  obtained  through  off-the  shelf
procurement should cost around US$130,000. Appendix 13 summarizes the
allocation of Bank loan proceeds by procurement methods.
2.   Civil Works
82.       Civil works to be undertaken under the Project include land
preparation, construction of building and utilities, feeder roads, and
the construction and rehabilitation of wharves.  The individual civil
works are of a relative simple nature, small in size, dispersed over
different provinces,  and phased over a period of six years.  It is
unlikely that international contractors would be interested in tendering
for such contracts. The Government has therefore requested that, in view
of the capabilities of local contractors, the construction of civil
works be undertaken by locally registered contractors selected by local
competitive bidding in accordance with the procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, or by force account where ncessary.  The Mission found the
local contractors capable of undertaking the civil works involved in the
Project. Under the Bank's loan, the total base cost of such civil works
is estimated at about US$1,500,000.
3.   Consultants
83.       The Project will need about 235 man-z.aonths of consultants'
services, 216 man-months being long-term and 19 man-mouths short-term.
Long-term consultants will be required in the fields of Project
management, engineering and construction, agricultural economics, food
crop  agronomy,  agricultural  information  and  extension  training;
short-term consultants in tile fields of community organization, specific
1/   Such as furniture,s sall office equipment
Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, paras 2 an.d 8.



-28-
agticultural research disciplines, etc.  The selection and engagement of
their services to be financed under the Bank loan will be subject to the
Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.1/ The general terms of
reference for the consultants and-the adviser,  as agreed on by the
Governuent and the Bank, are in Appendix 6.
4.   Fellowships
84.       The Project will provide overseas training fellowships under
the  different  Project  components  for  about  85  man-months.   The
fellowships will cover the following fields:
Project Component/Courses           Estimated Man-Months
Rural Development Centers
FieLd Extension Officer Training               20
Appropriate Technology                         12
Rural, Development                              8
Research ard Extensioa
Agricultural Research                          10
Agricultural Extension                          5
&gricultural Information
Agricultural Communications                    30
Total                                          85
85.       The staff to be awarded fellowships will mainly be from MKARD
assigned  to  the  Project.   Procedures  and  criteria  for  selecting
candidates will be agreed upon between the Government and the Bank.
Before the overseas training programs start, the Government will furnish
to the Bank a 14st of fellowship recipients and the places and duration
of training foT Bank Approval.2/
H.  Iprest Account
86.       The Government earlier had deficits on current account which
was being met out of capital receipts including foreign aid but it has
now  succeeded  in  eliminating  external  support  to  meet  current
expenditure.   It  would,  however,  be  extremely  difficult  for  the
Government to finance the Project and later on claim reilmbursements from
the Bank. Its budgetary position does not allow for the liquidity that
would enable advance payments to be made for expenses incurred under
externaLly financed projects. The depressed prices of commodity exports
have  already  increased  pressure  to  reduce  export  duties.   The
Government, therefore, proposed and the Mission recommends that the Bank
establish an imprest account for the Project. The following procedures
will apply:3/
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 7, para 2.
i/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 16.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 20.



-29-
(i)  the Project Impreat Account will be established
at an authorized depository bank of the Government;
(ii)  the funds required will be deposited iti the account
on the basis of anticipated quarterly empend1tures
and expected quarterly withdrawals;
(iii)  the account, as established, and the funds, as
deposited, will be operated and maintained in
accordance with terms and conditions acceptable
to the Government and the Bank and in particular,
such conditions will include the provision that
any withdrawal of funds from the account will be
supplemented by simultaneous release of Governowet's
budgetary allocation to the Project, representing
Government's share jf Project financing.
1.   Account, Auditg and Reports
87.       In addition to the standard reports required by the Bank, the
following reports will be furnished to the Bank at the time intervals
indicated below:l/
(i)  quarterly progress reports summnrizing the status
of the Project and the physical progress of
construction, procurement, formation and activities
of Farmers' Associations, services rendeted by
the RDCs, including problems encountered and
proposals for solving such problems;
(ii) half-yearly reports summarizing the budgetary
allocations and expenditures, and stating the
balance remaining in the Project Imprest Account;
and
(iit)  a Project Completion Report to be submitted within
three months following physical completion of the
Project.
88.       Government will maintain records and accounts  adequate  to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
loan, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (includlng the cost thereof), and to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting principles, its
operations and financial condition.2/
89.       The Government has given assurances that the Executing Agency
will establish and maintain separate account of expenditures for each
major component of the Project.  These accounts will be audited annually
by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. The Executing Agency will submit
to the Bank an audit report on the Project accounts in such details as
the Bank may reasonably request. The Audit Report will be submitted to
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 17, and Section 4.07(c).
2/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(a).



-30)-
the Bank not later than nine months after the close of the relevant
fiscal year. l/
J.   Project Benefit Monitoring and Evalustion (PBME) Unit
90.       The Project will benefit smallholders in particular and the
whole country in general. It will be necessary to monitor the progress
of the Project and evaluate its impact on various categories of target
groups, i.e., smallholders, food crops producers, cash croppers, village
women, youth, etc. A PBME Unit, which will monitor the benefits and
evaluate the impact of this, as well as of the Livestock Development
Project, will be established in the National Planning Office. Properly
trained and experienced, this Unit could be used for simila. work on
other Bank assisted projects in the agriculture and rural development
sectors. Details of the Unit's work as well as of the proposed
*        technical assistance grant of US$90,000 to the Government are given in
the Appraisal Report of the Livestock Development Project (Appendix 16).
K.   Operation and Maintenance
91.       The recurrent expenditure for the central research facilities
at Dode C.-eek, the Agricultural Information Unit and NATI and for the
research sub-stations at Dala, Rendova Harbor, Santa Cruz and Avu-Avu
will be financed under the Project for five years.  The Rendova Harbor
FTC and all RDC8 will be financed under the Project for two-and-a-half
years.
92.       The Goveraeunt has given an assurance that the Project
facilities and equipment will be operated and maintained in accordance
with sound financial, engineering and agricultural practices.2/
93.       To that end, after the loan fivancing period, the Government
will provide annually and on a timely basis, sufficient financial
allocations and staff to meet the operation and maintenance requirements
of the Project.3/
1/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(b).
2/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 19.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 15 and 19.



-31-
V.  PROJECT JUISTIFICATION
A.   Overall Justification
94.       The Government considers it imperative that more people should
be brought into the mainstream of development.  Being the predominant
sector of the economy, agriculture is viewed as the main vehicle for
translating this policy into action.  The Project is mainly Judtified on
the basis of its emphasis on crop diversification and intensification as
strategic methods of expanding the agricultural produtetion base and
thereby increasing the income derived from food and cash crops by the
predominantly rural population of the country.   The components of the
Project are designed to result not only in better incomes but also
improved living conditions for the majority of the rural people,
particularly the subsistence smallholders.
B.   Benefits and Beneficiaries
95.       The Project will yield a number of benefits  to the rural
people, particularly those within the areas of influence of the RDCs
which will promote the increased productivity of food crops as well as
the cultivation of other suitable cash crops.  The improved marketing
system brought about by a better transport infrastructure, proper
storage facilities, and a new communication system will facilitate the
entry of more surplus agricultural production into the monetized
economy,  thus  increasing  smallholders'  cash  income.   RDC  training
programs will provide farmers with the knowledge and skills that will
enable  them  to  undertake   alternative  or  supplementary  economic
activities.
96.       The  research,  extension  and  information  components  will
eventually benefit the entire rural population of the country.  Though
some of these components will have a medium to long gestation period,
they will in the end result in improved agricultural production.
1.   Ouantified Benefits
97.       The development of 80 ha of provincial farm in Rendova Harbor
will result in an incremental production of about 320 mt of copra and 90
mt of cocoa per year.   The 5 portable sawmills will produce annually
about 15,000 cu m of sawn timber with a net value added of about
US$870,000. The transport infrastructure provided in the Project will
improve access to markets especially for input supplies. More efficient
turn-around of ships will result from the construction of wharves so
redu.cing storage time.
2.   Non-Quantified Benefits
98.       Several  benefits  accruing  from  the  Project  are  largely
unquantifiable or difficult to quantify. The proposed activities of the
RDCs include the operation of market point facilities such as radios,
copra dryers and storage facilities, the provision of engine repair and
maintenance  services  and development  of prototype sailboats, all of
which will benefit farmers with marketable surplus production.  Tt has



-32-
been conservatively reckoned that the operations of the marknt point
facilities axnd the small engine maintenance services will be fitiancially
self-sustaining.   It is planned  to operate  the  sailboats  as  cargo
vessels on a trial  baais for a year at two RDC sites.  The outcome of
this component is however difficult to predict.
99.       Among the rsearch activiLties to be conducted in the various
research stations and substations wilL be the development of varieties
of food crops suitable to the agro-climatic conditions of the various
parts of the country.  The anticipated benefits though likely to be
significant w4b11 be of long gestation period and have not therefore been
quantified.
100.      The training activities in the RDCs will include courses for
farmers in appropriate technology and rural life improvement intended to
develop creative technical skills appropriate to,a village environment
and provide the educational base from which individual and conmunity
heelth can be improved.
101.      The extension components, including the relocation of the FTC
from Barakoma to Rendova Harbor, the provision of Field Assistants'
housing and the training courses of NATI, will all yield secondary and
multiplier effect benefits.   These  components will provide  for the
availability of a cadre of well-informed and effective extension
personnel.   Similarly,  the AIU through its information dissemination
function will generate benefits of a non-quantifiable nature.
3.   Impact on Beneficiaries
102.      The influence of the Project will be spread by the seven Rural
Development Centers which will generate an impetus for agricultural
development among some 3,700 smallholder families.  These families will
benefit  from the transport infrastructure to be provided under the
Projecr, access to extension services, and the demonstration effect of
good  agri-ultural  practices  around  the  RDCs.   Over  the  six-year
implementation period, over 2,280 farmers will be able to attend at
least one two-week training course in the RDC on any cf several
specialized training programs. About the same nuimber of farmers will be
exposed to training on alternative economic skills under appropriate
technology training courses.  About 1,000 farmers' wives, as well as
other interested adults, will be able to participate in rural life adult
education training courses.
103.      The field extension staff are expected to benefit considerably
from the Project.   About 30 Field Assistants will be provided with
permanent houses and Field Assistants assigned to RDCs will  receivie
special extension training.
4.   Employment Creation
104.      For the construction of the civil works required for the
Project, it is estimated that 420 man-years of unskilled labor and 80
man-years of skilled labor will be required. The operation of the seven
RDCs will require 25 incremental permanent staff of levels 4 and 5. The



-33-
PIU will need 4 staf f at  levels 4 and above during  the six-year
implementation  period.   The  reeearch  stations,  NATI  and  AIU,  will
together need 18 new staff at levels 4, 5 And 6.
5.   Foreign Exchange Generation
105.      It  is  etstimated  that  the  increimental  copra  and  cocoa
production of the provincial farm at Rendova Iarbox would generate about
US$255,000  in foreign exchange annually.  The sawn timber produced
annually by the portable sawmills would have an international market
value   (F0  Honiara)   of  about  US$1.5  million.   The  transport
infrastructures and training courses on copra drying will improve the
quality and quantity of copra produced by the benefited farmers by about
10 per cent, the resulting incremental revenues due to this should be in
tiie order of US$180,000 per year in copra exports.
C.   Economic Ana.ysis
106.      The main assumptions underlying  the economic analysis are
discussed in Appendix 14 and are summarized as follows:  (i) the Project
implementation period is six years; (ii) imported materials are valued
at CIF Honiara prices plus adjustments for domestic transportation;
exported products are valued at FOB Honiara prices with adjustuanat for
loca transport costs; (iii) locally traded commodities like sweet potato
and taro are valued at domestic financial prices; and (iv) only
quantifiable benefits have been included in the anmAyses.
107.      The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the provincial
farm is estimated to be 20 per cent as shown in Table 4, Appendix 14;
that for the sawmills is over 300 per cent (Table 5, Appendix 14).
D.   Project Risks
103.      The  main  risks  likely  to  be  encountered  in  Project
implementation include:  (i) inadequacy of the implementing capability
of the Government;  and (ii) difficulties in land acquisition.   The
Pro-ect has been designed in such a manner as to deal with these
constraints.  Taking the productivity and incoie raising needs of the
country into consideration, the Project provides for the minimum package
that Will create a significant impact on the productivity and incone of
smallUolders now facing acute poverty. Implementation will Tequire the
recruitment of 47 professional staff and adequate provision has been
made to ensure that there will be a minimum rilsk in the availability of
staff.  First, the recruitment period iB spread over four years, thus
allowingt better planning  and preparation  for hiring.   Second,  the
Project includes fellowships for key staff to be trained overseas so
strength ening  their  technical  and  management  capability.   Finally,
provisiout has been made for consultants to guide and train the Project
staff in implementation functions.
109.      There  is  some degree  of  uncertainty  with  regard  to  the
availability of land to the provincial governments concerned at two RDC
sites  (Susubona-Kaevanga and Hakama).  In case this ahould lead to
delay, the implementation of both RDC8 has been scheduled for year 4 of
Project impl.ementation.



-34-
VI.  CONCLUSI AM iECOMMENDATI01S
110.      Agriculture  provides  over  90  per  cent  of  the  exports,
contributing 70 per cent to the GDP and sustains 90 per cent of the
country's population.  Even when the GDP grew by over 7 per cent per
annum during 1972-79, smallholders did not benefit to such an extent.
After 1979, when the world price of copra was depressed and GDP fell by
over 2 per cent per annum, the hardship of the large subsistence sector
increased. The Government, therefore, formulated a policy in late 1981
placing emphasis on research and extension in regard to existing and new
food crops, the improvement and diversification of cash crops, and the
need to provide market and other support facilities and infrastructures
in, rural areas, on a decentralized basis. Unfortunately, implementation
of this policy was handicapped by shortages of funds and initial
manpower. The Project, which is completely in line with the Government
priorities, will help the rural households to intensify and diversify
agricultural production and Improve their income and standard of living.
111.      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$11.65 million
equivalent, compriaing US$5.93 million as foreign exchange cost and the
equivalent of US$5.72 million as local cost.  External financing will
amount to US$10.15 million, the remaining US$1.50 million equivalent
being contributed by the Government. Of the total external fiuancing,
the Bank loan is proposed at US$5.15 million, IDA's share at US$3.5
million, and that of IFAD at US$1.5 million.  Parallel co-financing
arrangements are proposed.  The Bank will finance the establishment of
the Rural  Development  Centers  and  the  setting-up  of  the  Project
Implementation Unit. In view of the integrated nature of the Project,
Government has given an assurance that it willl obtain the required funds
from IDA and IFAD in a timely ianner or make other arrangements (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 8, para 22).
112.      The Project has both quantifiable as well as non-quantifiable
benefits. It will increase the production of both food and cash crops
and create the potential for the sustained development of thF
smallholders'  economy.   Besides  creating  additional  employment,  the
Project will result in the generation of foreign exchange, improvement
of soil fertiLity, better nutrition for the people, use of unused
agriculture opportunity areas and the establishment of multi-facility
centers of conomic and social activities on decentralized basis.  The
Project will also lay the foundations for building up a supply of better
trained and more skilled manpower.
113.      In addition to the standard provisions and assurances, the
following specific assurances have been received from the Government on
matters of importance to the Project:
(i) The Government will set up a National Coordinating
Group (NCG) at central level under the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs and National



Development (MHAND) for the overall coordination
and implementation of the Project (Loan Agreement,
Schedule S, paras 1 and 2).
Y  ,                 (ii)  The Government will establish within the MHAND a
Project Implementation Unit on full-time basis for
the planning, implementation and direct supervision
of the Project components and will appoint a senior
level local person as Project Director to head the
PIU (Loan Agreement Schedule 8, Part B, paras 3
and 4).
(iii)  At the provincial level, the Borrower will ensure that
the provincial secretary shall enlist and coordinate
the support and involvement of all concerned officers
and local level officials and non-officials (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 8, para 14).
(iv)   The Borrower has given an assurance that it will
make efforts to obtain funds from other co-financiers,
i.e., IDA and IFAD, on a timely basis. In the event
of any difficulties, the Borrower will make alternative
arrangements for the same (Loan Agreement, Schedule 8,
para 22).
(v)   The Borrower has also given an assurance that all land,
properties, rights of way, etc. required for the Project
will be mpde available free from any impediment in the
Project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 8, para 18).



-36 -
LIST OF APPENDIXES
Appendix
1         Commodity Prices                                          37
2         Agricultural Price Policies                               39
3         RDC Sites and Activities                                  41
4         Agricultural Research in the Solomon Islands              42
5         Agricultural Extension and Training in
the Solomon Islands                                      51
6         Terms of Reference for Consultants                        57
7         Job Description for Project Director (Local)              63
8         Detailed Cost Estimates                                   64
9         Organization Chart:  Ministry of.
Home Affairs and National Development                    67
10         Project Organization - Rural Services Project             68
11         R-ural Services Project - Project Implementation         69
12         Staff Requirements by Year                                76
13         Allocation of Proceeds of Bank Loan                       77
14         Economic and Financial Analyses                           78
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-37-          ~~Appendix. 1
Page 1
COMO0DITY PRICXS
Table 1: Anuual Average Prices of Copra (Sl per m. ton)
Local Price         Export Price   Difference between
1st Grade              (CIP)       Export & Local Price
1971           117.29               163.93                46.64
1972            74.23               114.21                39.98
1973           129.99               237,71               107.72
1974           282.79               454.31               171.52
1975           129.52               190.05                60.53
1976           120.34               221.61               101.27
1977           191.07               351.33               160.26
1978           233.32               398.33               165.01
1979           331.95               571.11               337.79
1980           318.39               373.94                55.55
1981           272.75               323.77                51.02
Source: Government of Solomon Island - Ministry of Finasnce, 1982 Statistical
Year Book, p. 85.
(Reference in text: page 5, paras 12 and 14)



a/
Table 2: CODMMODITY PRICES AND PRICE PROJECTIOYTS
(in 1981 Constant Dollars)
Short Run                  Long Run               Average
Commuodity               1983       1984      1985         1990      1995       1960   -    1970
Cocoak'            Constant        2,020      1,990      1,750       1,450      1,730                  1,930
Current         2,040      2,200     2,120        2,400      3,820                    580
Copra-/            Constant           424       407        447         506        495                    662
Current           428        450        541         836      1,094                    199
Coconut Oil-/      Constant           589       592        618         696        687                  1,077
Current           595        655        748       13150      1,518                    323
Palm Oll.'         Constant          426        482        542         582        580                    753
Current           430        533       656          962      1,282                    226
Palm Kernel-/      Constant           335       321        330         369        359                    520       a
Current           338        355        399         610        793                    156
a/   IBRD, Half-Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts, June 1983.  All prices are US$ per mt.
bI Cocoa (ICCO), Daily Price, average, New York and London, nearest futures trading months.
c/   Copra, Philippines/Indonesia, bulk, CIP NW Europe.
d/   Coconut Oil, Philippines/Indonesia, bulk, CIF Rotterdam.                                                    IV
eJ   Palm Oil, Malaysia, 5% bulk, CIF NW Europe.
fJ   Palm Kernels, Nigerian. CIF UK.
(Reference in text:  page  c, para 14)



- 39 -
Appendix 2
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL PRICE POLICIES
1. General
1.           The Government has no specific statement of policy with regard
to agricultural prices and related issues. From several actions of the
Government on agricultural pricing, consumer pricing, and tax aspects,
it may be inferred that the Government aims, inter alia, to:  (i) provide
incentives to farmers; (ii) increase foreign exchange earnings through
exports; and (iii) keep prices of essential commodities to consumers
at reasonable levels.
2.           The Government is involved under joint ownership, in the
production of a number of agricultural commodities including rice, cocoa,
copra and fish through shareholding in various agribusiness enterprises.
On the marketing side, there is a state monopoly on copra export.
2. Producer Prices
(a) Copra
3.           The Copra Board, a state-owned organization is at present the
only exporter of copra. Its control of the export market allows it to
dictate the buying prices of copra throughout the country. In setting
the buying price, it aims to establish a uniform farmgate price to
copra producers regardless of distance to the loading ports and to
minimize adverse effects to farmers of extraordinary fluctuations of
copra price in the world market. Thus, during periods of relatively
high copra prices in the world market, the Board builds up a copra
reserve fund from its profit margins. During the periods of low copra
prices, the Board is able to offer buying prices that vould mean operating
losses to the Board,. at the expense of drawing down on the reserve fund.
4.           The copra pricing system has apparently functioned well since
copra production, which is dominated by the smallbolders, did not drop
inordinately during the period 1980-1982 when world copra prices
were badly depressed. Following the experience gained in copra, the!a
Copra Board is now in the process of being transformed into a Commodity
Board that may be involved in the marketing of other agricultural
commodities as well.
(b) Other Agricultural Commodities
5.           For the past few years the Government, through the Cattle
Development Authority, has controlled the price of beef in an effort to
(Reference in text: page 5, para 14)



- 40 -
Appendix 2
Page 2
support its cattle development programs. Beef prices were particularly
low up to the early part of 1983 when they were allowed to rise by
an average of 15 per cent. For other agricultural commodities, the
forces of the open market are allowed to determine prices.
3.  Subsidies and Taxes
6.           There are at present no direct subsidies on agricultural
inputs to farmers. The Government allows the importation of
fertilizers, agrochemicals, agricultural production supplies and
livestock medications on a tax-exempt basis.
4. Consumer Prices
7.           The prices of several main consumer commodities (milk, sugar,
meat, fish, cooking oil, soap, rice and bread) are being controlled
in Honiara. The controlling body is the Price Advisory Control Office
under the Ministry of Finance. The allowable maximum retail prices are
designated as given percentages over CIF prices which are calculated
as an average of several traders. There is a plan to extend the price
control to other geographical zones in the country.



- 41                            Apgendi2L -3
RDC SITES AND ACTIVITIES
Rendova  Harau  Afio-  Northwest  Santa  Suubana
Hiarbor   Sound  Rokera Peninsula  Cruz   Kasevanga  HaUkaw
Guaddl-
Provicct                   Western  Canal  Malaita  Makira  Temotu   Isabel   Central
1.  Provincial ar&ri-
cultural training        x                 x                 x
2. Agricultural
extension                x                 x       x x                K         x
3. Appropriate
technology                        x                                             x
4. Rural life adult
education                          c                         x                  x
Production, Processing
amd Marketing
5.  Provincial farm          x
6.  Portable sawmill         I                 xx                x         x
7.  Engine maintenance                x
8.  Sailboat                           x       x
9. Market point                        x                                  x
Transport Infrastructure
10. Wharf                    x                     x                     xx        x
11. Road                              x        x                          x
(Reference in text: page 12, para. 40)
(Page 12, para 45).



_ 42 -
Appendix 4
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN THE SOLOMON ISLANDS
I. The Existing Situationi
A.  Background
1.           The Government's agricultural research program conducted
fron the Dodo Creek Research Complex, Guadalcanal Province, which was
opened in 1975, directs itself mainly to:
(i) the genetic improvement of the staple root crops
(sweet potato, taro, yams and cassava);
(ii) the control of pests and diseases in these food
crops;
(i4i)   specific pathological and entomological problems of
the major cash crops (coconut, oil palm and cocoa)
and rice; and
(iv) soil classification, soil surveys and the investigation
of nutrient inputs required for optimum growth and
production.
The laboratories at Dodo Creek are reasonably well equipped for the
current work loatd and the staff have access to the newly established
but partially developed experiment farm at Tenaru, 7 km from Dodo Creek
and to a cocoa plantation at Black Post close to Tenaru.
2.           The commercial sector imports appropriate technology and
conducts its own adaptive research on the important cash crops (coconuts,
cocoa and oil palm) and rice (which is not a staple food outside the towns).
The three major agri-business companies are joint ventures between external
capital and government equity.
B. Organization of Government Research and Staffing
3.           The research program, headed by a Chief Research Officer, is
organized by disciplines across crops. The disciplines are soil science,
horticulture, pathology and entomology. A plant breeder is attached to
the research program and is financed by the UNDP/FAO, under the South
Pacific Commission's Root Crops Program. Pasture research, now ended,
was conducted by an agronomist supported by the University of Queensland/
Australian Development Assistance Bureau.
(Reference in text: page 15, para 50)



- 43 -
Appendix 4
Page 2
C. Research Programs
1.   Cash Crops
4.           Coconuts:  Much of the work by Level Solomons Ltd. has been
directed, over the last three decades, to the collection of genetic material
and the production and testing of hybrids. This led to the identification
of a hybrid between Rennell Tall male and Red Malaysian Dwarf female
*       which is dwarf, high yielding and precocious.  Large scale plantings of
this hybrid have been undertaken by the commercial sector. For indi-
vidual plantings by the small-holder farmer, where inputs for hybrids are
either not available or too expensive, another Yandina hybrid Rennell
Tall x Local Solomons Tall, an improved tall palm, is recommended.
5.           The Agriculture Division's work on coconuts has concentrated
on the biological, chemical, or cultural control of the Southern Hemisphere
rhinocerous beetle (Scapanes grossepunctatus), the premature nut fall insect
(Amblypelta cocophaga), the coconut spathe borer (Axiagastus cambellil),
the coconut moth (Tirabatha rufivena), the coconut weevil (Pantorhytes
biblagiatus) and coconut leaf beetle (Brontispa longissima). Control
of Scapanas with 6.5% gamma HiCH is effective and is recommended at present
but there are encouraging signs that the release of the virus Baculovirus
oryctes in the New Georgia Islands is reducing the population of Scapanes
beetles. All the other coconut pests appear to be susceptible to biological
control, at least in new plantations, by introducing the yellow tree
nesting ant Oecophylla smargadina, which is particularly antagonistic
to Amblypelta cocophyga, the cause of premature nut fall.
6.           The export of hybrid nuts overseas and to other provinces  in
the Solomon Islands was depressed by an outbreak of the pathogen
Marasmiellus cocophilus, causing basal stem rot in seedling coconuts, in
the 1980/81 nursery on the Russel Islands. Studies of the aetiology and
control of Marasmiellus are being undertaken by the Division of Agriculture.
7.           Oil Palm:  The Agriculture Division is not undertaking any
current research on oil palm. A notable past achievement was the
successful introduction, multiplication and release of the oil palm
*       pollinating weevil, Elaedobius Kamerunicus, from West Africa in 1981.
The presence of this insect has now eliminated the need for hand
pollination within the Solomon Islands Plantation Ltd. (SIPL) estates on
the Guadalcanal plain. SIPL is undertaking research into an anomalous
situation which exists in that low levels of available potass'um are
not reflected either visually or in the chemical composition of the oil
palm leaves.



44 _
AppendLx 4
Page 3
8.           Cocoa:  The original planttings of "Trinitarios" in the
Solomon Islands proved to be highly nusceptible to black pod and stem
canker disease caused by the fungus Yqhytophthora palmivora and have now
been largely replaced by the resistarit "Amelonados". The main research
undertaking of the Division of Agric.alture at present is the evaluation
of hybrid progenies of Sabah parentage which appear to be more precocious
and higher yielding than Amelonado in the seasonally dry environment of
the Guadalcanal plains.
9.           Rice:  Brewer Solomons Apsociates Ltd. undertake research on
their up to 2,000 ha crop. The intensive cropping rate of 2.7 crops per
yesar and the overlapping of crops has resulted in incre4sed populations
of the brown plant hopper (Nilaparvata lugens). The Research Section
Of MHAND has assisted with research on this pest and BSAL evaluates
ctltivars in standard IRRI tests.
l'J.         Other Cash Crops:  A wide range of new cash crops can be
grown by smallholders in the Solomon Islands and the Research Section has
undertaken introduction and varietal testing of Giner, Tumeric, Cardamon,
Nutmeg, Capsicum pepper and Robusta coffee. Diversification of cash
crop production will depend upon the availability of markets and to
date only Robusta coffee can be assured of a market (a minimum quota of
1,500 tons annually could be obtained from the International Coffee
Organization).
2. Food Crops
I1.         Taro (Colocasia esculenta):  Prior to 1946 and the arrival of
the destructive taro blight pathogen, Phytophthora colocasiae, and its
rapid spread throughout the country, taro was the most widely cultivated
and preferred staple root crop. Taro blight has been estimated to cause
field losses of 40 to 60 per cent of corn yield and storage losses of up
to 80 per cent within 5 days after harvest. Taro is still preferred
as the staple food to sweet potato which of necessity has replaced
it and now occupies some 65% of the land area devoted to food crops.
12.         Germplasm collections of taro have in the past been screened
for yield, susceptibility to taro blight, virus diseases, taro beetle
(Papuana inermis) and storage characteristics.  Due .o the difficulty
of maintaining field collections in the presence of a lethal virus
disease, the germplasm is stored as seed at Dodo Creek and dup'icates
sent to India and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
(IITA). Taro tissue culture techniques were however developed and it
is now possible to eliminate virus disease from taro clones and maintain
taro plantlets in culture media.
13.         The only known immunity to taro blight came from a clone of
wild C. esculenta var. antiquorum originating in Thailand. The resistance
is conferred by a monogenic dominant and is relatively easy to
transfer to cultivated taros. The Thai clone has disadvantages, however,



45 -
Appendix 4
Page 4
is that it does ntot produce a corm and contains a high percentage of
calcium oxalate crystals which are culinarily undesirable. In order to
transfer the resistance to blight and eliminate the aforementioned
disadvantages a backcrops program with the cultivated taro as the recurrent
parent was initiated. This program has now reached the BC(2)F2 gene-
ration and some segregants innoculated in the greenhouse have blight
resistance and reasonably good corms. It is anticipated that the
BC(2)F3 generation will produce segregants with blight resistance and
good agronomic and culinary characteristics: the future availability of
such cultivars would have an important impact upon subsistence agri-
culture in the South Pacific Region as a whole.
14.         The germplasm collections was screened for resistance to virus
diseases and two groups of cultivars identified. One group consists of
a majority of cultivars which are generally high yielding but sus-
ceptible to a lethal virus disease known locally as "alomae". Diseased
plants are infected with two types of bacilliform particles: a rhabado
virus transmitted by a plant hopper and a smaller vacilliform particle
transmitted by a mealy bug. The second group of cultivars contains low
yielding clones which are resistant to "alomae" but susceptible to a
non-lethal disease, locally called "bobone" which is caused by the
rhabado virus alone. The Fl hybrids between the two groups of cultivars
have all died utuder field conditions indicating that resistance to
".alomae" is recessive. The breeding work on this problem is to be
intensified.
15.        Sweet Potato:  Germplasm collections have been screened for
resistance to sweet potato weevil (Cylas formicarius) and a witches'
broom type disease known as "little-leaf disease" caused by a mycoplasma-
like organism and transmitted by a Jassid (Orosius sp.) vector. A breeding
program was started by crossing local and exotic cultivars with the
objectives of improving yield and other agronomic traits as well as
the production of clones with res:;lstance to little-leaf disease and weevil.
One cultivar from AVRDC is resistgtnt to little-leaf disease and one
cultivar from IITA resistant to weevil. F3 progeny lines growing at
Tenaru shows yields ranging from Cl to 50 mt/ha: this variability which
exceeds the yield capabilities of the parental cultivars augers wel'l
for the success of the breeding program.
16.         Yams (Dioscorea spp.)  Germplasm collections of both the
Greater Yam (D. alata) and the Chinese Yam (D. esculenta) have been made
locally and introductions made from abroad.  Resistance in the GtBater
Yam to anthracuose disease caused by Collectotrichum gloeosporioides is
being sought but breeding programs are not envisaged.



46 -
A nix 4
Page 5
17.         Cassava.  Thls crop is gaining in popularity and a small
germplasm screening program of local cultivars is maintained at Tenaru.
An unknown "mozaic" occured on cassava grown on Choiseul Island and may
be a cause for concern: its vector has not yet been identified.
18.         Vegetables and Fruits.  These are not major items of food for
the main part of the population who obtain much of their protein and
vitamin requirements from fish and coconuts.  Only bush cabbage
(Abelmoschus manihot) and the longbean (Vigna unguiculata, subspecied
sequipe\dalis) are widely grown in significant amounts. A collection of
local cultivars of bush cabbage of Drodo Creek is maintained and various
fruit trees are being established on the new farm at Tenaru.
3. Soils and Plant Nutrition
19.         Current emphasis in soils and plant nutrition research is on
the evaluation of crops on different soil types, and the investigation
of nutrient inputs required for optimum growth and production. Soil
surveys of coconut plantations for redevelopment of proposed sites for
research substations and of the Guadalcanal plains are in progress. A
land suitability classification for crops grown by small holders has been
prepared for use by extension staff.
It. Existing Constraints and Program Weaknesses
20.         Adaptive Research.  The research sector has grossly inadequate
capabilities for multilocation adaptive research. In particular it lacks
adequately equipped and managed experiment stations in the important
environments outside the Guadalcanal plain. It is noteworthy that the
soil and rainfall regime of the Guadalcanal plain is atypical of the
rest of the Solomon Islands and is the only part of the country with a
marked dry season. Many of the research findings at Dodo Creek Research
complex are awaiting facilities to enable them to be tested in the field
over diverse environments.
21.         Communications.  There are no established channels of com-
munication whereby (i) research results can be disseminated to the
extension service, small holder farmers, commerce or the general public;
or (ii) government can be informed of research progress and its relevance
to agriculture development.  Many research findings have not yet been
transmitted to farmers.
22.         Farming Systems.  Population increase is leading to an inten-
sification of crop production, the period of fallow break is being reduced
and a decline in soil fertility ensuing. Farming systems research to
establish methods of maintaining and enhancing soil fertility in the
notoriously fragile environment of the wet lowland tropics has not yet
been undertaken and is urgently needed.



_ 47 _
Appendix 4
Page 6
23.         Econ mics.  The research sector lacks capability for the
economic analysi;3 of cuarrent farming systems and any new technology which
might be recommentded for them. Little socio-economic base line data on
smallholder prodtuction systems within the different provinces of the
Solomon Islands ere available.  There can be no diversification of
cash crop production without assured markets for their produce and
market research and the economics of production of new crops &Xso
needs to be undertaken.
24.         Crop )iversification and Genetic Resources.  Research on
potential new cashl crops and food crops is inadequate at present. There
is a need for screening a wider range of germplasm of legumes, vegetables,
fruits, spices end nuts.  The collection and ro;tine maintenance of
genetic resources conflicts with legitimate research programs of the
Plant Breeders, Pathologists and Agronomists and it is important that
a substantive position for a Genetic Resources Officer be established:
such an officer iE. to be funded by another Donor Agency.
III. Rationale for Support to Agricultural Research
25.         Notwithstanding the aforementioued constraints the ongoing
research program is basically sound and warrants support to increase
its capabilities to make effective contributions to agricultural deve-
lopment in the Solomon Islands.  The Project's inputs for agricultural
research have been formulated in order to remove the constraints and
provide a service with the following objectives:
(i)   in general terms, to undertake multi-disciplinary
research conducted from the Dodo Creek Research complex,
which is relevant to food and cash crop production l/
by small holders and the communal plantation sector;-
(ii)   more particularly, to conduct adaptive, multi-location
research over diverse environments at Tenaru, Dala,
1/  See Chart 1 for Organization of Research Program.
2/ See Chart 2 for the characteristics of these stations which were
chosen upon consideration of the following factors:
a) adequate representation of major agricultural soils and climates;
b)  optimal diversity for the assessment of genotype x environment
interactions;
c) population distribution - about 90% of Solomon Islands live in
the Western, Malaita, and Guadalcanal Provinces; and
d) ease of access bearing in mind that travel and communication are
difficult throughout the country.
Provision is not made for a high altitude station because the high
altitude interior areas of Malaita end Guadalcanal have not yet been
developed and are inaccessible: a considerable altitude zonation of
temperature would be found with some heights just below 3,000 meters.



_ 48 _
Appen4dix 4
Page 7
Rendova. Rarbor, Santa Cruz and Avu Avu; 2/ and to
conduct economic analysis so as to identify the
constraints to maintaining self-sufficiency in food
production and devise ways to integrate food and cash
crop production with stable, economically efficient
and viable farming systems; and
(iii)   to collaborate with retearch in the commercial sector,
both to utilize or ada.Vt the products of such research
for small holders and cotwiunal plantations, and to
provide on request scientific advisory services for
their joint ventures.
, 
N



ORCAMIITION 01       ACR KDAU I
__   T      _                    SEJ~~~5W   Can  d1 *wn Awnu
Adli.atction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~4
7plnt 'redek  Aronxut*                   irooxis'tcu            Agricultural"r-ii:
(Food Cropi)(fod Craps)                     Horticulturist            Econoniat             bP.,.aoj'sist    Pscientistt
(Food CrsaDODO    CrOoIsp)
I. Tart              1. farming System       1. Cash Crop Husbandry    1. Soci.o-aeoonouic       1. Food CtoP    1. food Crop   1. fartUeil ser  1. PastWS.
2. Sweet potato      Z. Food Crap lvm-       2. Frarming System              data                   Patsa            Diseases        4& Nutrients    Qassagib
3. Van                  baadry               3. Diversifrcatiou          2. Fam Iuss            2. C&as Crop    2. Cash Crop   2. Soil Surveys
4. Cassava           3. Diversificatim           (fruits, ices.              (food 4. cash          Pasts            Diseases    3. Soil Cla. I-
tlaws   ~-          -     t                          Cnuts)  cr_p_                               - t--        ca
tals, maize)                                     3. Market researc
& aconosics of
production of
er"  diversification
4. R3eearch Vale 2So  policy
4  Crt.DPIFAa   input (urdr the South PacifiC COin LtOR,  to ot Crops PrOPs.).
"ADD Projet Input                                                             tQ
** Australian Devlopmet Asstance Input                                                                 o                                                              i0
I x



Chart 2.  Cd-pcl1mtic a* site specific characterlatics of te
Cbart 2.      Solom  Islands  esearch Field Erermt Stations
Statin                             Climate  1/                   Soils                                Site Characteristics
-%          I   TEIU: CUADALCAA              Rainfall 2.000 sm/annum. Moet rain     Alluvial         The climate is reprentative of the C.adalcanl plains wbih
PR SIU  (Field Statixo       fells duriS the VW  looa. Dry          (Chromstort)    is the min ae  for corcabl agrictlture (cocoa  ol palm.
for Dodo Crek)                mon  dul  the S.E. 1oon                                ecma.s 6 rne)i  the Solin Islads. TMe vertie   siUs
(0                                           Period                                                  are reresettiwe of tbo usetero end of the Guadolcml
'5                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~plat"s.
II. DAI: MAUIAA  fWVNCK           Rai-fall 3.000 lsenum. Continuouly   rowaish clays   Meet of tbe populatio  of the Solosu Ilam" is now touen-
aet but wetter In  1W. u bnsoon.       over uplifted    tratod in area with a rainfall regim  similar to that of Del
coral limstne. and scb  of the agricAture    coIfied to soils overlying
(Tropudalf)       11isto  rocks. lotesiu. Is defIcaft in thes  sois.
It. REOOVA MM  VESTRI             Rainfall 3.500 ulanam. Continuously  Reddish clays    The stroWly wAtued sofla oa wvlcai rok  an wey diD-
rt             PROVINCE                     vat, but w.ttr In N.l. a0eoon,         ovae volcanic    cributed in the Werw ftovince an the is1meX of Sweft".
X                                                                                  rocks. Csplor-  Now Georgiao,  _lelangera A Vil Lsyvlls  mad arm ertemsawely
thor)            use  for ciakr as  ell as food sarde. pasture  6 cocoa.
They arm Ikely to be Iscressisgly usd for food  Arde.
Phoaphorona  is deficient Is tim  soils md acidty I a
problems
TV. SANA CAUZ: TEN=               Manfall 4.000  _m/rn. Contnuously   Volcanic as         This tye of oil Is lmted in extat am  hs differet pro-                    VI
>              pitOVICE                     vt. but wetter in vs. monsoon.         over uplifted    peTtnSg  fr. othr Sobln tabs   wous, but is siMilr to
coral limsone  that of V_-t . Mm popaitl diomsuty em   e of tchse is-
(flydrandept)    lands is the highest In the comatey sod lend pressure  s r
sever.
V. AVU AMU GuALCDEI              Rainfall 6,000  /anaus. Contuouly   Alluwir and         This site in climatically rWreeatatve of tho dislpy pops-
PR6OVTh                      wee. =oer rein In S.E. !.aoo.          colIzvIM.        lated smother coSt' of Cuadlceama £ hkiralsmd. Dee to
Pt                                                                                                   coeamat clom,. tl  solar ralintios  regift is 1mm the  in
0u                                                                                                   oter Pau of the solo Ids _m" ad yelds of             I to"ed
uW crp varietie_ (weet potato & tcer) are _dboptiml. Rat
° eb  same" after S mm. in moot aret takes P me. ea the
watr et"se  there in an urgelt seed to bred vaie  of
food ep  adapted t thi  gro-clisatic  a.
1i th WorXt West Wouoon cc r fom 1s,de  to ApilL.
The South East Mozooom occur fru  Kay to October.
.-I
S ~ ~~~~~~~                       :>



- 51 -                          Appendix 5
Page I
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING IN THE SOLOM0N ISLANDS
A.   The Existin  Situaion
Extension Services
1.        The Solomon Islands' extension services have been modeled
on the multipurpose type of organization with priority given to
centrally determined development programs particularly in tree ctops
(coconut and cocoa) and to some extent livestock. Targets were set and
the extension effort concentrated in areas which are more likely to
be responsive to the demands of the program. The education-information
activities of the extension service tend   to be neglected in order to
meet production targets.
2.        Land planted with tree crops or used for cattle is no longer
available for food crop gardens. As a result, the latter have tended
either to be pushed further and further away from the villages or
alternatively, fallow periods have been shortened with the attendant
risks of nutrient depletion. Crovernment policy is now tending to move
towards promoting the overall well-being of the smallholders with respect
to botlh cash and food crop production. Greater emphasis will tlherefore
need to be given to the catering of the needs of farming households and
to integrated farming groups ratfiir than to production targets for
specific crops.
Staff Training
(a) Pre-Service Selection and Training
3.           Applicants who are Form V school leavers with school certificates
enter the pre-service year in February and are attached to a range of
agricultural activities including some in the private sector, until Decenber.
During this period students submit written reports at the end _
of each assignment. This gives a record of the subject matter con-
cerned and demonstrates the student's absorptive ability. The super-
visory officer also submits a confidential report so that over the
year a good assessment can be made of the student's suitability for
further training overseas (PNG, Fiji and Australia) to certificate/
diploma level. Most overseas training institutions now make this pre-
service training a prerequisite for acceptance. The certificate
course covers two years and the diploma three years. A student gaining
a certificate will be offered a level 4 position as a Field Assistant;
a diploma student would qualify for a level 5 position of Assistant
Field Officer.
(b) In-Service Training
4.        In-country courses, either arranged domestically or sub-
regionally have been offered in farm management and economics, and
special courses for land use development have been held by the land
resources division of the Overseas Development Administration of the UK.
Staff in-service training needs are also provided at the 4 existing
provincial Farmers Training Centers (FTC)as shown in Table 1.
(Reference in text: page 16, para 53)



&pejndix 5
Page 2
Table 1.  In-Service Training Courses-b at
-      Farmer Training Centers
Year                  Number of Courses           Staff Attending
1978                           6                         95
1979                           7                        138
1980                          11                        228
1981                           8                        149
1982                           6                        133
1/ One or two week duration
5.        Short out-of-country courses provide specialist training In
beef cattle nanagenient, pig husbandry, crop protection, rural develop-
ment and project planning. None exceed 3 months duration and tend ito be
informal in nature and do not offer certificates or diplomas leading
to promotion. Long out-of-country courses are of at least one
academic year's duration and usually lead to promotion. Examples of
this type of training are post-certificate diploma, PNG; diploina/MSC in
extension UK; diploma in teaching (agriculture) PNG; MSC (crop protec-
tion) UR. Of the 164 Solomon Islatnds members of staff, 59 (about
35 per cent) have undertaken in-service training overseas since 1978.
Farmer Training
6.        There are at present 4 Farmer Training Centers (FTC) located
at Dodo Creek, Dala, Barakoma, and Kaonasughu. The centers each have
between 16 to 20 ha of developed farm land and have accommodation and
classrooms for about 24 trainees. Each center is manned by an assistant
Z-ield officer (AFO) and a field assistant plus a small supportstaff of
cook/laborers. Not all the AFOs have received formal teacher training
and this should receive urgent attention,



- 53 -
Appendix 5
Page 3
5.           Farmer training takes place at the training center or at
village level4 Courses at the centers are of a relatively short duration
(one or two weeks); they are essentially of a practical nature and classroom
work is kept to a minimum.  Taking the courses/demonstrations to the villages
enables the program to be formed around an actual farming situation. However,
to be really effective the extension staff should not only know the cultural
practices but must be skilled in putting over the subject matter. At present
hardly any of the Field Assistants have received adequate extension teaching
training. This lack of training in extension methods is recognized and
every effort must be made to strengthen this aspect of the extension serive.
The proposed National Agricultural Training Center (NATI) would need to give
this particular attention (see below). More emphasis i.s now being given to
fooderops and courses given at centers and at villages are being directed
towards the womenfolk - the subject matter comprising a combination of
rootcrop and vegetable production, human nutrition and rural life.
Unfortunately there is only one trained female Field Assistant available to
conduct these courses. There is therefore, an urgent need to increase the
number of female Field Assistants with formal teaching training.
Table 2. Breakdown of Fanmer Training Courses
At Centers and Villages
Cattle             Cocoa        Minor Cash Crops   Vegetables
Year           Atten-             Atten-              Atten-            Atten-
Courses  dance   Courses  dance    Courses  dance   Courses  dance
1978     8      122        14      214         7       65        3      23
1979    11      167        19      277         3       41        -      -
1980    11      125        17      208         2        30       5      58
1981    15      177        19      250         2        22       8      120
1982    16      193        15      261         2       20        9*    132
* In 1982 an additional 118 women attended 12 courses in vegetable
cultivation, nutrition and Tural life.



Appendix 5
Page 4
6.           It would therefore appear that the existing extension services
are ill-equipped to exencute a significant transfer of technology to an
expanding rural community. The existing service has an insufficient number
of well trained staff and lacks the support services (particularly information)
needed to provide them with well presented advisory material.  Many of the
existing staff were trained within a system that tended to emphasize selected
cash crop development. Such a narrow/specific approach can often result in
programs concentrating on the more advanced innovators or early adopters
at the expense of the ordinary smallholder.  These extension workers will
need to be retrained to orient them towards viewing the farming community as
a whole and to include foodcrops, casb crops and livestock as these appear
in the different farming systems.
B.   Future Role.of the Extension Service
7.           The increasing population and the depressed prices (1979-82) of
many of the primary covmodities exported by the Solomon Islands have added an
urgency to increase and diversify the production of foodcrops and to process
and market cash crops efficiently and economically.  It is the policy of the
Government to bring more people into agricultural development in order to
increase fooderop production - particularly the basic root crops - and also
expand opportunities for earning larger incomes from a wide range of cash
crops8
8.           However, if the agricultural potential of the Solomon Islands is
to be realized, then substantial change in attitudes and advances in skills
must be introduced into the farming system. This can, however, be achieved
by (a) an adequately staffed and well trained extension service making
regular contact at farm/village level; and (b) provision of regular well designed
farmer training courses at formal training centers and also at village level.
C.   The bNeed for Improved Training Facilities
9.       The poor standards of communications, the scattered popula-
tion and the generally low standard of literacy and numeracy amongst
rural communities places unusually severe demands on extension staff.
The extension service has a crucial role to play in making available
improved farm management practices. However, at present, a substantial
proportion of the staff are not equipped to carry out these tasks
effectively. Even those that have received formal training require
regulat augmentation uf their knowledge if they are to keep up with
technological advances being made in agricultural practices. There is
also a need to provide well-designed training in management for the more
advanced farmers.



- 55 -
Appendix 5
Page 5
10.      As discussed earlier, the FTC at Dodo Creek is currently used
to provide some specific specialist training in cocoa establishment/
production; pasture and livestock development, etc. for Field Assistant/
Demonstrators. However, none of the existing FTCs is equipped to pro-
vide a broad based training that would cover basic principles of biology,
basic husbandry practices for the food crops and the main cash crops, the
essential elements of farm management and extension methods. At present
no facilities exist in the Solomon Islands to provide this type of
initial training for Field Assistant/Demonstrators.
11.       Whilst training courses are offered overseas they are not
oriented sufficiently to the specific needs of the Solomon Islands. The
provision of an agricultural training facility concentrating on practical
in-service training w.;'d go a long way to overcome some of the constraints
to agricultural develupment arising from the inadequacies of the extension
staff.
12.       The proposed National Agricultural Training Institute (NATI)
would meet this requirement. In its early years, NATI would concentrate
on courses which would lead to the improvement of the overall ability of
the extension staff with respect to both technical and extension skills.
Ultimately, however, the aim should be the provision of training leading
to the award of a certificate geared to the specific needs of the Solomon
Islands agriculture.
13.       Initially courses would be structured to meet specific needs;
they would be of an essentially practical nature and would be of short
duration ranging from two weeks to 2 or 3 months. Provision would be
made for initial broad based training for level 3 staff and remedial
training for levels 3 and 4; in addition provision would be made for
advanced farmer training. Staff returning from overseas training would
also be given an orientation course.
14.       NATI should be in a position to offer (a) two courses/year
of 2/3 months duration to provide basic training for about 40 Field
Assistants/Demonstrators; (b) four courses/year of two week duration
for about 80 existing staff requiring refresher/orientation training;
and (c) ten courses/year of one week duration for about 150 advanced
farmers. The balance of the time-about 8 weeks- would be required for
conferences, syllabi preparation/revision and leave, etc. As far as
the Field Assistant/Demonstrators are concerned, if it is assumed that
there would be a 10 per cent annual wastage, then the net increase in
farmerlvillage level extension staff would amount to around 35 per annum
and this would certainly strengthen the extension service's ability to
provide additional village level group training/demonstration.



- 56, _
Appendix 5
Page 6
15.       Responsibility for the administration of NATI would remain
under Central Governiment with  UAND as the executive authority.  This
would ensure uniformity in the standard of instruction complementary
to that already being provided at the Farmer Training Centers (FTCs),
simplify procuremaent of tutorial staff as required from time to time
and ensure that the needs of all the provinces are catered for within
the syllabi developed.
16.       NATI would be headed by a Principal (see terms of reference
in Appendix 6)  with a deputy as an understudy.  The teaching strength
would be made up of an addltional deputy and one male and one female
teacher. The second deputy wotuld be responsible for running the farm
with the assistance of a farm manager (level 5 or 6).  This may appear
to be a large complement fot- the teaching load but it should be recog-
nized that the Principal will be responsible (over a 4-year period) for
developing the physical facilities of the institute and the curriculum
to be followed as well as organizing, along with the senior field
officer (education and training), all the training courses for the
extension service and leading farmers. His understudy would be avail-
able to assist but would be outside the country on study tours for quite
long periods. It Is envisaged that during years three and four of the
Institute's existence the deputy would gradually take over from the
Principal who would be phased out after 4 years.



_ 57 -
Appendix 6
Page 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
A. Project Advisor
MHAND would require the assistance of a Project Advisor
in the ove3all coordination and implementation of the Rural Services
Project. He would advise and work closely with the Project Director.
He would be knowledgeable in project management and rural development
and would be experienced in projects involving the coordination of
several government agencies. The Project Advisor would be required for
about 36 months. His main functions and responsibilities would include
but not be limited to the following:
(i)  Advise the Project Director on strategies and
approaches in implementing the Project components;
(ii)  Coordinate the consultancy work of the long-term
and short-term consultants for the Project;
(iii)  Work closely and directly with the Project Director
in supervising and controlling the Project progress;
(iv)  Offer solutions to problems that may arise in
Project implementation;
(v)  Determine alternative actions in cases of Project
implementation difficulties;
(vi)  Assist in preparing monthly implementation plans;
(vii)  Assist in tendering for equipment and services
for the Project;
(viii)  Assist the implementing agency in preparing regular
Project progress reports;
(ix)  Assist in implementing in-country training courses
related to the Project
(Reference in text: page 18, para 61)



_ 58 -
Appendix 6
Page 2
B. Construction and Engineerina Consultant
The services of a Construction and Engineering Consultant
would be necessary in the implementation of the Ruaral Services Project,
to assist the Project Implementation Unit to undertake construction of
the civil works including wharves, roads and buildings provided for diffe-
rent components of the Project. The Advisor will be a senior civil
engineer and his service will be required for at least 24 man-months.
His main function and responsibilities would include but not be limlited
to the following:
(i) Review the civil works requirements and assist
in the choice of their final location and alignment
(road) for the various project components;
(ii) Assist in the formulation of a detailed implementation
schedule for the civil works - and in the determination
and recruitment of the local technical staff and field
level supervision needed for Project implementation;
(iii)  Recommend appropriate methods for the execution of the
civil works, e.g. contractual arrangements and/or force
account; and assist in the preparation of civil works
packages to be tendered for engineering and
construction contracts;
(iv) Assist in the preparation of technical specifications
and tender documents for engineering and construction
contracts, and in the evaluation of bids;
(v) Review design and cost estimates changes as they
are needed;
(vi) Assist in the supervision of the construction of the
civil works according to adopted schedules and technical
specifications, and review physical and financial
progress reports for all civil works construction;
(vii)  Assist in the preparation of project progress reports
for submission to Central Government and external
financing institutions;
(viii) Assess existing maintenance arrangements for civil
works in each concerned province and assist in the
formulation of a program for maintenance of roads,
wharves, and building in the different project areas,
to ensure their adequate maintenance after completion.



- 59 _
A22endi-x 6
Page 3
C.  Aricultural Economist
The consultant should have a post-graduate degree in agricultural
economics. He should have had at least ten years experience as an agricultural
economist in a developing country in the study of smallholders and should be
cognizant of the aims and aspirations of small farmers, their psychology, their
culture and the constraints which may, despite sound extension programs, preclude
achieving high and remunerative crop yields.
In general, throughout Solomon Islands, the task of providing food is
traditionally the responsibility of women while men are involved in the
production of various cash crops. Attitudes towards traditional roles are
changing in some areas and these have been necessitated by the decline of soil
fertility in over-populated areas and the production of food gardens further and
further away from the coastal lowlands and the homesteads. The small proportion
of the total land area suitable for arable farming in the wet lowland, tropical
environment together with the 3.4 per cent annual population growth do not
auger well for the nation's future ability to maintain self-sufficiency in home
grown food. Statistical information on present smallholder production systems
is scant and is urgently needed for the quantification of constraints to agri-
cultural development and devising of appropriate agricultural research programs.
He will be part of the multi-disciplinary team of research workers, based at
Dodo Creek, under the direction of the Chief Research Officer. His duties will
include but not be limited to the following:
(i) Establish socio-economic base line data on present day smallholder
production systems within the different areas of Solomon Islands;
(ii) Draw up farm budgets and establish net returns per hectare for the
important food and cash crops produced by smallholder farmers in
different areas of the country;
(iii)  Liaise with his co-research workers from other disciplines in
assessing the socio-economic benefits of improved varieties,
potential new crops for diversification, methods of fertility
maintenance and recommended changes to existing cropping systems;
(iv)  Assess the practicability and possible impact of locally derived
and imported new technology and quantify the constraints to agri-
cultural development on smallholder farms;
(v)  Assume responsibility for running the computer facilities in the
Research Department;
(vi) Assist, as required by the Agricultural Division of the Ministry
of Home Affairs and National Development, in staff and farmers
training programs; and
(vii)  Assist MHAND in developing an agricultural research policy For
'dolomon Islands.



- 60 -
Appendix 6
Page 4
D.   Agronomist (Food Crops)
The consultant should have a post-graduate degree in agricultural science,
soil science, agronomy or related disciplines. He should have had several years
of exper.ience as a field crop agronomist. At least five years of his experience
should have been in a developing country and he should, preferably, have under-
taken agronomic research on determinants of yield in root/tuber crops, their
macro- and micro-nutrient requirements and their effect an soil fertility in
various cropping systems.
It has been customary in Solomon Islands to grow the staple food crops
(swee, -tato, taro, yams and cassava) after secondary forest for crop cycles of
1 or 2   .s followed by a fallow break for as long as 20 years. -The period of
fallow bre .; has decreased commensurate with the increase in population and
pressure from cash crops and cattle and this has resulted in a rapid decline in
soil. fertility during the first cropping cycle. This fertility decline on soils
overlying uplifted coral limestone has been marked especially by a widespread
deficiency of potassium, an anomalous sufficiency of nitrogen, and a reduction
in crop yields.
The consultant agronomist who will have special responsibility for
food crops within a farming system research team will undertake studies to:
(i)  establish methods of maintaining and enhancing soil fertility under
shifting cultivation smallholder systems over the range of soil
types and rainfall regimes within Solomon Islands;
(ii)  investigat.e the best methods of cultivation for maximizing the yield
of smallholder crops under present day and improved systems over the
range of soil types and rainfall regimes within Solomon Islands; and
(iii)  assess the feasibility of introducing new legume, vegetable and
cereal crops.
He will be part of the multi-disciplinary team of research workers
based at Dodo Creek under the direction of the Chief Research Officer, and will
be expected to liaise with:
(i) the Agronomist responsible for agronomic research on present cash
crops (mainly tree crops at present) and potential new crops and to
jointly undertake investigations on the inter-cropping of cash crops
with food crops;
(ii) the Soil Scientists, particularly in his investigations into macro-
and micro-nutrient deficiencies and the deficiency toxitv inter-
action of minor elements in root crops;
(iii) the Economist in assessing the socio-economic aspects of presert
systems of cultivation and the effects of any new recommended
systems; and
(iv)  the Pathologist and Entomoligst.



- 61 -
Ax6
Page 5
E.  Agr r mtnpi alist
MHAND will need the services of a consultant on agriculture information.
He will help establish an Agriculture Information Unit (AIU) in MHAND and
initiate the implementation of an appropriate agriculture information processing
and dissemination program for the country. His services will be required for
about 36 man-months. His main functions and responsibilities will include
but not be limited to the following:
(i)  Assist in establishing the objectives of an agricultural information
system appropriate for the requirements of Solomon Islands;
(ii)  Design and develop the institutional arrangement and determine
the physical requirements of AIU;
(iii) Assist in recruiting the staffing requirement of AIU;
(iv)  Recommend the overseas fellowship requirements for senior
information staff;
(v) Determine the information needs of extension and research services
of the Government and develop appropriate information processing
and dissemination means;
(vi)  Maintain information reception or exchange arrangements with
international data banks or sources;
(vii)  Liase with extension workers, farmers' training ceiLters and other
possible information users on information needs;
(viii) Arrange with various domestic media on appropriate dissemination
programs;
(ix)  Train an understudy Information Officer to take charge of the AIU
upon termination of the Agricultural Information Specialist's
tenure; and
(x)   Be responsible for the day to day operations of the AIU during its
first three years of operations.
Qualifications
University degree in mass communications,agricultural journalism,
agricultural extension, or related fields. At least 10 years experience in
agricultural communications, preferably with exposure to a developing country.
(Reference in text:  page 26, para 78)



62 -
Appendix 6
Page 6'
F.   Principal for the National Agricultural TrainingInstitute (NATl)
MHAND will require the services of an expatriate Principal
National Agricultural Training Institute (NATI). He will mainly assist in
establishing the institute and developing the educational curricula along
objectives to be set by MHAND. He will be required for a minimum of 48 man-
months.  His main functions and responsibilities will include but not be
limited to the following:
(i) Assist XHAND i,. developing objectives of NATT and main
educational programs to be undertaken;
(i.i) Be responsible for the overall development of the physical
features of the institute;
(iii) Develop curricula and syllabi for major education programs
leading to dgrees in agricultural extension and related fields;
(iv) Recommend teaehing aid materials and equipment;
(v)  Assist in recruiting faculty and support staff for ilAlI;
(vi) Assist in developing in-service training courses for
demonstrators, field extension staff and advanced farmers;
(vii) Assist in developing orientation courses for trainees or
new staff in agricultural fields of the public service;
(viii) Be responsible for the day to day overall administration of
NATI;
(ix) Prepare budgest and be responsible for financial operations
of NATI;
(x) Liaise with other Government agencies such as the Ministry
of Education, Training, and Cultural Affairs in matters
concerning common discipline areas;
(xi) Advise MHAND on the institutional and technical arrangements
necessary in the event that NATI should ever be .absorbed
into the national educational system.
(xii) To review and coordinate the different training courses and
programs being organized by NATI, FTC, etc.
Qualifications
Graduate degree in Agricultural Extension, Agriculture, or related
field. Must have a minimum of 10 years of teaching experience with at least
3 years at the level of Senior Teacher or Principal in a tertiary establishment.
(Reference in text: page 26, para 75)



- 63 -
Appendix 7
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR PROJECT DIRECTOR (LOCAL)
Main ResponsibilitY
The Project Director will be responsible for the overall implementation
of the Rural Services Project. He will ensure that the individual Project
components are implemented in accordance with the general design and time frame
in consultation with the National Coordinating Group and with the resources made
available for the Project.
His main responsibilities and functions would include but not be
limited to the following:
(i) Participate as ex-officio in the meetings of the National
Coordinating Group as its Secretary;
(ii)  Supervise the activities of the Project Administrative Support Staff;
(iii) Assist MHAND in recruiting consultants and Project Advisor;
(iv)  Prepare implementation schedules for all Project components;
(v) Review and approve all requests for Project procurement;
(vi)  Review and recommend for approval all engineering and procurement
contracts related to the Project;
(vii) Review the progress of implementation of all Project components;
(viii) Act as Project Manager for all RDCs being implemented while such
position remains unfilled;
(ix)  Participate in meetings of the Provincial Coordinating Groups
wherever set-up; and
(x) Prepare physical and financial progress reports for submission to
the Central Government as well as to external financing institutions.
Qualificat ions
A degree in Public Administration, Business Administration,
Management, Economics, Engineering or Agriculture. At least 10 years experience
in Project Management or Government service in a supervisory position.
(Reference in text: page 24, para 68)



- 64 -
Appendix 8
Page 1
TETAtI. H') COST ESTIMAT1.S
(US$ -000)
Foreign        Local
Item                         Exchange        Curreacy         Total
A.   Rural Development Centers
1.  Center facilities
Civil works                           309            719            1,028
Equipment                             204             65             269
2.  Production, processing and
marketing
Civil works                            16             38               54
Equipment                             188             21             209
3.  Transport infrastructure
Civil works                           116            271             387
Equipment                              47              5               52
4.  Training and consultancy              285            204              489
5.  Staff Costs                            -             414              414
6.  Other recurrent costs                 305            131              436
Base cost                        1,470         1,868            3,338
Physical contingency               141           240              381
Price escalation                    19 1272                     1J6.1
'otal                      2.000          2,880            4,880
B.   Research and Extension
1. Research stations
Civil works                           116           388             .554
Equipment                             228             25             253
Training and consultancy              569             63             632
Staff costs                            -            278              278
Other recurrent costs                 188             81             269
Base cost                        1,151           835            1,986
Physical contingency               67            112              179
Price escalation                   222           243              465
Total                      1.440          1,190            2,630
(Reference in text: page 18, para 62)



-65-
Appendix 8
Page 2
Foreign       Local..
Item                       Exchange       Currency           Total
2.  Parmers' Training Center
Civil works                           29            67                 96
Equipment                             42            12                 54
Other recurrent costs                 23            24                 47
Base cost                          94           103                197
Physical contingency               11            14                 25
Price escalation                   15           23                  38
Total                       120           140                260
3. Field assistants' housing
Civil works                           59           136                195
Equipment                             59            32                 91
Base cost         .               118          168                286
Physical contingency               15            24                 39
Price escalation                   17            38                 55
Total                       150           230                380
4.  National Agricultural
Training Institute
Civil works                           66           155                221
Equipment                             69             8                 77
Training and consultancy             358            39                397
Staff costs                           -            153                153
Other recurrent costs                125            55                180
Base cost                        618           410              1,028
Physical contingency               29            52                 81
Price escalation                  153           128                281
Total                       800           590              1,390
C.   Agricultural Information Unit
Civil works                           14            31                 45
Equipment                             28             3                 31
Training and consultancy             291            32       .        323
Staff costs                           -            .64                 64
Other recurrent costs                 55            23                 78
Base cost                         388           153                541
Physical contingency               10            17                 27
Price escalation                   72            40                112
Total                       470           210                6a0



-66-
Azppvrnd1x 8
page 3
Item                      Exchange        CurrencY       Total
D   .lProject Implenentation Unit
Equipment                                 45               5             S0
Consultancy                              561             139            700
Staff costs                               -              180            180
Other recurrent costs                     70              30            100
Base cost                             676             354          1,030
Physical contingency                   11              31             42
Price escalation                      113              95         _ 208
Total                            800             480          280
Total (A to D)
Base cost                           4,515           3,891          8,406
Physical contingecy a/                284             490            774
Price escalatio b/                   981           1,939          2.320
Total                          5,780           5.720        11.500
Service Charge during
construction                          150                            1S0
Recovery of part of cost
of Preparatory Technical
Assistance cl                      ( 50) -o
Total PToject Cost             5,930           5,720         11,650
a/   Physical contingencies are calculated at 15 per cent of civil works and staff
costs and 10 per cent of equipment and other recurrent costs.
b/   Price escalation is calculatea at 8.0 per cent for 1983, 7.5 per cent
for 1984, 7.0 per cent for 1985 and 6.0 per cent per annum thereafter
for foreign exchange costs- and at 8.0 per cent per annum for 1983 gad
1984, and 6.0 per cent per annum thereafter for local currency costs.
c/   Represents an allowance for maximum amount recoverable pending establishment
of actual cost incurred; amount is estimated to be covered by contingency
allowance for price escalation.



ORGANIZATION CHiART: MINISTRY -OF ROME AFFAIRS AND NATJONAL DEVLLOQPKT
Permnent
n                           f
a      D               1sVeterlar  Ate o  f ath ouer cProvincial    FCterl ettl
Division        Division      Division         Z~tV            lnig           Division       Dvlo's
rt  Dlvls                                          ~~~~~~Division   unit                           Auhoity
e9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr
x                      J U                                            J                                               ., .
,'                                                                                                                -.  uJ
S~~~~~



Appendix 10
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
|    *nnan.nt  |
I  GIAND
_ _ _ _ _ , Cootdfinatl" I
Pgwc          -           ImIIemeaa&aion
ProJeeI 9iincSor~~~~~~rou
LIII'-_                                                     _  
,                        1    Mu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,o4aa~       -                                         Gru
0' ld l q w ~~~~~~~~~~.,.." tf
MATI                               E~~~~~~~F~je Mauga
Coo dinasalno
_  sieng lu _ _  . _ _ GuedUcan
HarbEl
man" sRaw
RDC
DOC
__ _ - - --  C.oMdiaWM
Center                         kl- ,
~~~~rd.Gr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pog
4,00r_ Group*  i                             II SnS's
I~ a
11 Ma1ly br t llrd up en Vie: 1.
-2  National Aitulluioa Training Instltute
(Reference in text: page 24, para 69)



Chart 1:   Project Implementation CPM Netwolk Diugtd
2                       34                                                                                 6
Transget FTC from gj(Jioma :o Acndova Harbor
cquap'rnent'  Osign, conUftuct and establish kendova Harbor RSC-                                                 --      ------
Proor rr
eu eqt uipmnt ,in constusn    structs atndov Habr  S                     i
|ocue wqDmsagn. construct and esraublth Aio.RokeS   a RS                                  -
t~~~~~~~~~1 < Pooure               c
g7  I                tOrf     m e qi _C                sis.construct ndestabish Nort           ftnint4i CSe
CD        WatDsi  tonsslutt A  eNablish Santa fu  RSC
PnU, rec;u-.                                                                       establis Rts.araf Substation a Santa Cna 
Consultants ,/
..       1               \                                                             equipmcnt       D5esign, cttrttns wand emoshalf .wbonaKm     vna RSC            A
Px   S   \\  rabl~isimPfovtetenhs at                                                                                                         AjH
lb                        \' Do do CSru   tsurch Suaion                      11 
ESaibliSh improvtemnts Al                                                                                                              a  i,
Procurt                                                                      1 7 -
IC   equptnent Establish Aqru-avu Resc-h Substation__
O      I            \ ~~~~~Esrt>bt'sn AIU   l                                                         
_Priurt 1IU
teqwtpm  r'            CilbEish NA'Il                                                        -  -      -
1   ConsitrucI Fs houws                                 sr                                                                              XI FA  
\~~Cntuc   Ahoe                        __ _______ _______________J I                                                                                              (Ut
-s~-                                                                     --             e -.n                                         -AXnual
g asuUlL        ----o   4____o



_ 70 -
Ai,pendix 11
Page 2
ProJect Activiti±es -J_by Source of External Financinp
Sourct ofExternal
SourcSe of External Financing ~'Activity Description
Activity 'Number
1. Asian Development Bank
1 - 2                           Establish PIU; recruit consiltants
2 - 5                           Procure equipment
5 - 29                          Design, construct and establish
Rendova Harbor RDC
6 - 8                           Procure equipment
8 - 33                          Design, construct and establish
Harau Sound RDC
9 - 12                          Procure equipment
12 - 36                          Desi$n, construct and establish
Af ro-Rokera RDC
13 - 17                          Procure equipment
17 - 38                          Design, construct and establish
Northwest Peninsula RDC
18 - 23                          Procure equipment
23 - 41                          Design, construct -atd establish
Santa Cruz RDC
21 - 31                          Procure equipment
31 - 45                          Design, construct and establish
Susubona-Kaevanga RDC
22 - 32                          Procure equipment
32 - 45                          Design, construct and establish Hakama RDC
2. International Development Association
1 - 2                           Recruit consultants
2 - 19                          Establish improvements at Dodo Creek
Research Station
2 - 20                          Establish improvements at Dala Research
Substation
S - 30                          Establish Research Substation at
Rendova Harbor
10 - 14                          Procure equlpment
14 - 37                          Establish Avu-avu Research Substation
23 - 42                          Establish Research Substation at Santa Cruz
2 - 11                          Establish Agricultural Information Unit
2 - 25                          Construct Field Assistants' houses
3.  International Fund for Agricultural Development
5 ** 28                         Tran4fer Farmers' TrainIng Center fr'irn
narakoma to iVendova Harbor
2 -;7                           Procure equlpment
7 - 24                          Establish the National Agricultural
Tra ining Institute



-71-
Ar,nrdix 1
Page 3
4. ADB Technic' ai-_tan
3 _ 4                          Conduct baselin  sur?vey
15 - 16                         Conduct annuaL survey
26 - 27                         Conduct annual survey
34 - 35                         Conduct annual survey
39 - 40                         Conduct asnual survey
43 - 44                         Conduct terminai survey
a/  See CPM Network Diagramn for sequence and numbering of activities.
f



_ 72 -
Appendix 11
Page 4
Chart 2: Implementation Schedule by Project Component
1984      1985    1986     1987      1988     1989
A. Rural Development Centers
1. Rendova Harbor
Civil works
Center facilities        r-       t;             'i
Housing                          .____
Wharf
Equipment
Farm machinery
Office equipment
Transport equipment
Furniture                                       .
Training
2. Marau Sound
Civil works                                                     ;
Center facilities
Housing
Road maintenance                     L_' L__
Equipment                                    .
Farm machinery
Office equipment
Transport equipment
Furniture
Training                                                ___
3.  Afro-Rokera                                    .                  .
Civil workslw
Center facilities      1                                       =
Housing                                    _______
Wharf                                               _
Equipment
Farm machinery
Office equipment
Transport equipment
Furniture                                       £Z= 
Training                                                    _  _,_!_             _



- 73 -
Appendix.1I
Page .5
_ 984    1985     1986     1987    1988     ,989
4. Northwest Peninsula
Civil works
Center facilities                                          --------
Housing                                      =--__
Road                                                         =
Wharf.                                       .                .
Equipment
Farm machinery
Office equipment
Transport equipment
Furniture
Training                                                 ___.          _
5. Santa Cruz
Civil works
Center facilities                                 __ .__           _______
Housing                                            _        __. __ ._
Equipment
Farm machinery
Office equipment
Transport equipment
Furniture
Training
6. Susubona-Kaevanga
Civil works
Center facilities                                                            L
Housing                                               _             __       .
Road                                                  C              __. : ___
Wharf
*      Equipment
Farm machinery
Office equipment                                      r-
Transport equipment
Furniture
Training



7 74 _
Appendix 11
Page 6
f a-$ . __ ._6
1984       1985        1986       1987       1988       1989 
7. Hakama
Civil works
Center facilities
Housing
Wharf                                                         L_I__
Equipment
Farm machinery
Office equipment                                                     -
Transport equipment                                                  __ _
Furniture
Training
B.  Research and Extension
1.  Research
Civil works
Dodo Creek                 r
Dala
Rendova Harbor
Avu-avu                                        r_,._. _____
Santa Cruz
Equipment
Farm machinery
,Laboratory equipment
Office equipment
Transport equipment
Furniture :
Training and Consultanrcy     .                                                 .
Agricult'iral Economis It__._J
Agronomist                       I___- ____
Short Term
Fellowships
2.  Farmer's Training Center
Civil works             _._._I__
Equipment
Farm machinery                               -1
Other equipment                   __=_,_|
,          I
____________________ _____ _________!__



- 75 _
Page 7
1984        1985       1986      1,987       988        1989
3.  Field Assistants' Housing
Civil works                           L    =        =ZZ,
Equipment
4.  National Agricultural
Training InstAtute
Civil wv: =ks
Equipment                              ___=   =
Training and Consultancy
Principal                               5      _                 =     .        :_
Pe llowshipa
C.    ricultural Tnforuatiom Un t
Civil works
Equipment
Training and Consultancy
Agri. info. Specialist
Fellowships            =                       __     _
D.  Project IUlesentation Unit
Equipment
Training and Consultancy
Project Advisor                1 = :
Construction Advisor        C =       _____i
Short Term Consultants        I
Fellowships                        __=_=_L
Workshops                                      __       __                 -         -
Note:  Dividing line in civil works bar indicates design and tendering period.



-76-Apndx1
Table Is STAFF RtUIREMENTS BY YEAR
1984      1985      1986      1907      Total
Ruralt iuvelugmetn  Centers
>  L-5                                             2          3         4         9
L-4                                                3         5          8        16
L-3-                                               5         4          5        14
*L-2                                                 7         7        10        24
Subtotal                                      17        19        27        63
L-5                                      4         1          1         1         7
L-4                                      3         1                              4
1.-3               ,                     6         6         6          4        22
L-5                                      3                                        3
Subtotal                            16         8         7         S        36
N'ALLooal Agricultural Training institute
*i-6                                               2                              2
L-5                                                2                              2
L-4                                                I                              I
L-3                                                3                              3
Subtotal                                       8                             8
Agricultural lnformation Unit
1.-6             1                       1         1                              2
L-3                                                2                              2
Subtotal                             1         3                             4
ProAect LElementation Unit
1.- IO                                                                           1
L-5                                      2                                   .   2
L-4                *                                                              1
L-3                                      3                                        3
S~lItoiLc1l                          7                                       7
Total PIroject
I.-IU                                    1                                        1
L-6                                      1         3                              4
1.-5                                     6         5         4          5        20
.-4                                      4         5         5         8        22
_~-3                                     9        16        10         9        44
L-2                                    .3          7         7         10        27
Total                               24        36        26        32       118
(Reference in text:  page 27, par& 79)



0LLOCATIOU OF                                   Appendix 13
.LLOCATION OF PROCEEDS OF BANK LOAN
Total Base Cost    Amt6unt of Bank Loan    TProcuremsat,
Category/Item                  (US$9000)                 _$4D)               Method
At. Civil Works
1. Rural,Development Centers
S.  Center facilities           1,028                    776                  LCB
,b. Piroduction, processing
and marketing              54                     51                  LCB
c.  Transport Infrastructure    387                      292                  LCB/FA
Subtotal (A)            1,469                  1,109
.3B.  EquIpment
1.  Rural Development Centers
a.  Cetnter facilities            2C69                  246                   ICB/IS/LP
b. Production, processing
and marketing             209                    202                  ICB/IS/LP
c.  Transport Infrastructure       52                     50                  TS
i.  Project Implementation Unit        50                     48                  IS/LP
Subtotal (B)              580                    546
C. Training and Consultancy
1. Rural Development Centers
a.  Training                      389                   328                   BG
b.  Consultancy                   100                     96                  BC
2. Project Implementation Unit
a.  Training                      160                    149                  BG
b.  Consultancy                   540                    502                  BG
Subtotal (C)            1,189                  1,075
D. Operatiag Cost
1.  Rural Development Centers
a.  Staff costs                   414                   269    no dtract proculemern
b.  Other recurrent costs         436                   390
2. Project Implementation Unit
a.  Staff costs                   180                    117
b.  Administrative costs          100                     90
Subtotal (D)            1,130                    866
Total Base Cost             4,368                 3,596
Contingencies               1,792                 1,404
IDC                                                 150
Total                   6,160                  5.150             _-
LCB - Local competitive bidding            LS - International Shopping
FA  - Force Account                        LP - Local Purchase
ICB - International Competitive Bidding  EG - Bank Guidelines
(Reference in Text: page 27, para 81)



- 78 -
Appendix 14
Page 1
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
1.           The economic and financial analyses of the Project and
its components have teen carried out based on assumptions which are
discussed below. The Project is to be implemented over a six--year
period from 1984 to 1989.
1. Commodity Prices
2.           The financial prices of agricultural inputs and outputs
are based on prices currently prevailing in Honiara and average transport
costs to the different provinces. Some of these prices (e.g. for copra
and cocoa) are fixed by the Government whereas others are influenced
by market forces. The financial and economic prices of these inputs
and outputs are shown in Table 1. The economic prices of imported
materials such as fertilizer are derived from world market prices with
adjustments for transport and handling.  Similarly world market prices
of exported commodities are adjusted for transport and handling to obtain
economic prices. Economic prices of other products are taken to be the
same as the financial prices.
2. Wages
3.           Labor supply in the rural areas of Solomon Islands is
adequate to meet the apparent demand for labor; underemployment has
been observed especially when buying prices for prime cash crops
(mainly copra) have been inordinately low. The current rate for farm
and unskilled labor is SI$2.50 per man-day. The "wage reservation rate"
is generally close to SI$2.00 per man-day, thus the economic cost of
agricultural labor is taken at 80 per cent of the market wage rate.
3. Farm Budgets
4.           The typical farm household crop budget is shown in
Table 2. The household has access to 1.0-2.0 ha of coconut stands and
about 0.25 ha of garden plot in which are raised sweet potato (70 per
cent), taro (20 per cent) and yam (10 per cent). All the copra produced
and half of the garden products are sold.
4. Quantified Benefits
(a)  Provincial Farm
5.           The financial and economic analyses ;f the operations of
a rehabilitated provincial farm of 80 ha in Rendova Harbor are presented
in Tables 3 and 4. The 80 ha of farm land now planted with old (circa 1908)
coconuts will be replanted with hybrid coconuts. The coconuts will be
(Reference in text: page 33, paras 105 and 106)



79 -
Appendix 14
Page 2
intercropped with cacao and cattle (75 heifers and 3 bulls) will be
raised underneath. The coocnuts will start bearing in year 6 and cacao
in year 8. Peak annual yields will be 4.0 mt/ha of copra, 1.13 mt/ha
(at 75 per cent effectivity for intercropping yield) of cocoa, and 3 nt
of beef. The operating and management requirements of the farm will
v        include 5 permanent staff, 20,000 man-days per' year by year 11, and
about 9.0 mt of TSP and 25.4 mt of MOP fertilizers per year.
(b)  Portable Sawmills
6.           There will be a portable sawmill in each of five RDCs.
Conservatively, a portable sawmill would be able to produce about
3,000 eu m of sawn timber at the rate of 20 cu m per day and about 150
working days.



_ AC) -           ~pA jj 14
Page 3
Table 1. Input and Output Prices
(1983 SI Dollars)
Financial      Economic       World Harket
I t e m                    Unit       Price           Price          Price a/
Fert i1izer (Honiara)
Amnmonium sulfate                mt          267             282              127
TSP                              mt          431             402              247
MOP                              mt          297             294              139
Farm labor                         md          2.50            2.00
Products (Farmgate)
Copra                            mt          220             480              641
Cocoa                            mt        1,000           1,550            1,838
Beef, weaner (liveweight)        mt          900           1,105
Beef, cull cow (liveweight)      mt          650             800
Sawn timber                      cu a         25             100             444
Sweet potato                     Mt          130             130
Taro                             Mt          440             440
Yam                              Mt          150             150
aI  World Bank estimates for 1990 at 1983 constant prices.
/



- 81 -
Ag£gdix 14
PBS& 4
Table 2 . Crop Budgets, Swallholder Farm,
With anld Without Project
(SI Dollars)
With Training &         With
Without          Infrastructure           Research
Project          Benefits                 Benefits
: _______________________          (Year   1)        (Year   6)               (Year   11)
Production (Mnt)
Copra, 1.0-2.0 ha                1.000              1.100                  1.100
Sweet potato, 0.17 ha,
2 crolps             3.400               3.740                 6.800
Taro, 0.05 ha                    0.125              0.,138                 0.200
Yom, 0.03 hia                    0.300              0.330                  0.330
Revenues a/
Copra                              220                 242                   242
Sweet potato                       221                243                    442
Taro                                28                  31                    44
Yam                                 22                  24                    24
Total Revenues                491                540                    752
Expenses
Labor
Transport                           90                 90                    143
Total Expenses                 90                 90                    143
Net Cash Flow                         401                 450                   609
Incremental Benefit                    -                  49                    208
a/  Assusming all copra produced and half the garden products are sold.



- 82 -
AJMdi 14
Page 5
Table 3. Casb Flows, Rendova Harbor Provincial Fan;
(SI$ '000)
1       2-5        6       7        8        9       10    11-25
Production (mt)
Copra                                      40      80     120       176      240     320
Cocoa                                                       9        12       45      90
Beef, weiner                      2         2       2       2         2        2       2
Beef, cull cows                    1        1       1I   1                 1       1
Revenues
Copra                                     8.8    17.6    26.4      38.7     52.8    70.4
Cocoa.                                                    9.0      12.0     45.0    90.0
Beef                            2.7       2.7     2.7     2.7       2.7      2.7     2.7
To1tal                       2.7      11.5   20.3    38.1       53.4    100.5  163.1
Expenses
Capital costs         45.0
Personnel costs
Staff salaries     18.0     18.0      18.0   18.0    18.0       18.0     18.0    18.0
Labor wages        18.0     10.0      20.0   26.0    32.0       38.0     44.0   50.0
Fuel and equipment
maintenance        10.0     10.0      10.0    10.0    10.0      10.0     10.0    10.0
Fertilizer            13.5     13.5      13.5    13.5    13.5      13.5     13.5    13.5
Total             104.5     51.5      61.5    67.5    73.5     79,5      85.5    91.5
Net Cash Flow           (104.5)  ( 48.8)  ( 50.0)  (47.2) < 35.4)  ( 26.1)    15.0    71.6
FIRR: 7%
.~~~



- 83 -
Aeedix  14
Page 6
Table 4.  Econmc;k Internal Rate of Return:
Rendeva Harbor ProVincial Farm
(SI$ '000)
1     2-5      6     7      8     9      10     11-25
Benefits
Copra                                  19   38    58    b4    115         154
Cocoa                                              14    19      70       140
Beef                            3       3    3      3     3       3         3
Total                       3      22   41    75   106    188        291
Costs
Capital Costs         45
Personnel costs
Staff              18       18      18   18    18    18      18       18
Labor              14        e      16   21    26    30      35       40
Fuel and equipment
maintenance         9        9       9    9      9     9      9        9
Fertilizer            13       13      13   13    13    13       13      13
Total              99       48      56   61    66    70      75       80
Net Benefits               (99)   (45)  ( 34)( 20)    9    36    113           217
EIIR: 20Z
(Reference in text: page 33, para 107)



_ 84
,,   , ,    .                            X~~~~~~~~Apedix 1'4
g                               ,       ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 8
Table 5:  Internal Returns - Mobile Sawmill-/
(SI$ '000)
Capital  Operating   Gross       Net       FIRR/
Year                Cost      Cost      Benefits  Benefits   EIRR
(%)
A.  Iinancial Internal Rate of Return
1                 10                             ( 10)
2                           21                   (21)
3-21                         l11          165        54
FIRR                                                          120
B.  Economic Internal Rate of Return
1                 10                             ( 10)
2                           20                   (20)
3-21                         100          300       200
ElIRR                                                        300
a/   One sawmill producing 3,900 cu m of sawn timber per year.
(Reference in text: page 33, para 107)



