fFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1430 SOL
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Services Project)
between
SOLOMON ISLANDS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February        , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1430 SOL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February    , 1984, between SOLOMON ISLANDS
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by exte-iding the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the Asian Development Bank
(hereinafter called the ADB) for a loan (hereinafter called the
ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special Funds resources in various cur-
rencies equivalent to four million nine hundred and thirty
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,930,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the ADB;
(C) the Borrower has applied to ADB for technical assis-
tance relating to the Project in an amount not to exceed the
equivalent of ninety thousand dollars ($90,000) (hereinafter
called the ADB Grant);
(D) ADB and the Association intend to enter into an agree-
ment, which agreement will be confirmed by the Borrower (herein-
after called the Administration Letter) making arrangements for
the ADB to process the applications for withdrawal of the pro-
ceeds of the financing to be provided severally by ADB and the
Associaton  and  regulating  certain  other  matters   of  common
interest in connection with such financing;
(E) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to one
million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) between
the Borrower and the Fund; and
(F) the Fund intends to appoint the ADB as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "MHAND" means
the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs and National Development.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The Association    agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Develupment Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to three million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil worke required for the


﻿-3-
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date sball be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall   reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to tie Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of 'one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1994, and ending August
1, 2033, each installment to and including the installment pay-
able on August 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall.. carry out the Project
through 1MAND with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the provision of sub-section (a)
above, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
all the obligations set forth in Schedule 8 to the ADB Loan
Agreement. Notwithstanding the termination of the ADB Loan
Agreement or the Administration Letter, the provision of this
sub-section and the relevant provisions of Schedule 8 of the ADB
Loan Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect as if
the said provisions of Schedule 8 of the ADB Loan Agreement are
fully set forth herein.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consul-
tants to be selected in accordance with the principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿-5-
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishmment of
the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
va'atained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance


﻿- 6 -
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Pro-
ject, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as a4ailable, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably  requested,   including  without   limitation  to  the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
separate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Project facili-
ties to be operated, maintained and repaired in accordance with
sound administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural devel-
opment and maintenance and operational practices and shall pro-
vide the funds, facilities, services and other resources for the
purpose.
Section 4.03. The Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, delegate to the ADB under an Administration Letter, for
the duration of such period as may be set forth in the Adminis-
tration Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities


﻿-7-
under Section 2.03 as well as Articles III and IV of this Agree-
ment and the Borrower shall comply with the provisions of the
said Articles as if the ADB is substituted for the Association
therein. The obligation of the Borrower to comply with said Sec-
tion 2.03 as well as Articles III and IV shall continue in force
and effect notwithstanding any termination or suspension of such
delegated functions and responsibilities to the ADB under the
Administration Letter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to sub-
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any of the ADB Grant, the ADB Loan or the Fund
Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any of the ADB Loarn or the Fund Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof; namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ADB Loan, other than a condition precedent for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ADB Grant shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date May 9, 1984 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Honiara
Solomon Islands


﻿-9-
Cable address:                         Telex:
FINANCE                           HQ 66337
HONIARA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Honiara, Solomon Islands, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOLOMON ISLANDS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed          Expenditures
in SDR                to be
Category                  Equivalent)           Financed
(1) Civil works                 900,000          100%
(2) Equipment, vehicles         430,000          100%
and materials
(3) Consultants'               1,040,000         100%
services,
training and
fellowships
(4) Staff salaries               570,000         90% of expendi-
and operating costs                         tures incurred
on or before
December 31,
1988; 70% of
expenditures
incurred from
January 1, 1989
to December 31,
1989; and 50%
of expenditures
incurred from
January 1, 1990
(5) Unallocated                  360,000
TOTAL           3,300,000


﻿- 11-
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the
aggregate amount of disbursements required to carry out the
Project for each semester shall be withdrawn from the respective
Categories at the beginning of such semester taking irto account:
(a) the cumulative amount of expenditures (net of taxes)
actually incurred up to the end of the preceding semester; and
(b) the estimate of expenditures (net of taxes) of such
semester. For this purpose, the Borrower shall, when submitting
withdrawal applications, furnish to the Association in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association with respect to the
respective Categories, statements of expenditures with respect to
the cumulative amount and the estimate referred to above.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to  such  Category  as   required  to  be  consistent  with  the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) correspondingly reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shiortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures there-
under shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are two-fold: (i) to
provide opportunity to the rural people effectively to exploit
available land and human resources in pursuit of increased
productivity, income and standard of living, and (ii) to develop
and expand the Borrower's capability to provide agricultural
support services and facilities over a wide area.
The Project consists of the following components:
A.   Rural Development Centers (RDCs)
1.   Establishment of RDCs
Establishment of seven RDCs to act as multi-facility growth
centers with necessary offices, housing, classrooms, dormitories,
internal roads and sheds, demonstration farm plots, machinery and
equipment for training smallholders and staff and the provision
of related operating costs.
2.   Provision of Transport Infrastructure
Construction of about 24 km of feeder roads, rehabilitation
of about three existing wharves, construction of about two new
wharves,'and provision of transport maintenance equipment.
3,   Construction and Provision of Production, Processing
and Marketing Facilities
(i) Construction of storage facilities;
(ii) Development of market and collection points;
(iii) Installation of copra and cocoa dryers and fer-
menters;
(iv) Provision of transportation equipment at RDCs;
(v) Rehabilitation of a provincial plantation of about
80 hectares at Rendova Harbor;


﻿- 14 -
(vi) Development of farms of necessary hectarages at
all RDC sites for demonstration and training of
improved farming systems;
(vii) Provision of portable sawmills at selected RDCs;
(viii) Construction of appropriate technology centers at
selected RDCs with facilities for equipment main-
tenance and skill training; and
(ix) Provision of consulting services and training in
support of the RDC components and provision of
short-term consultancy services in the fields of
village arts and crafts and village organizations.
B.   Agricultural Research, Extension and Support Facilities
1.   Research Station Development
(i) Improvement and extension of the research facili-
ties at Dodo Creek Research Station and Tenaru
Field Experiment Station;
(ii) Establishment of about four adequately equipped
and managed experimental research sub-stations in
diverse agri-climatic zones outside the Guadal-
canal plains;
(iii) Provision   of the services of an     Agricultural
Economist and a Food Crop Agronomist to be based
at Dodo Creek ani various levels of support staff
at all sites;
(iv) Provision of other consultancy services (Cropping
Systems, Plant Breeding, Entomology, Virology,
etc.) over the Project period;
(v) Provision of overseas staff study tours and con-
ference attendance and inter-island travel;
(vi) Provision   of offices, laboratories, libraries,
stores, workshops, vehicles, rest houses, staff
houses and laborers' houses as well as the operat-
ing costs; and


﻿- 15 -
(vii) Provision of farm transport, laboratory and office
equipment.
2.   Provision of Facilities for Field Assistance
(Extension)
(i)  Construction  of   about   30  houses   for  Field
Assistants; and
(ii) Provision of about 120 sprayers and a supply of
agricultural inputs for demonstration.
3.   Establishment of an Agricultural Information Unit (AIU)
(i) Establishment of an AIU at Honiara with facilities
for office, printing, transport and information
processing and retrieval; and
(ii) Provision of the services of an expatriate Agri-
cultural Information Specialist, two Information
Assistants, staff salaries, overseas staff study
tours and conference attendance, inter-island
travel and other operating costs.
C.   Agricultural Training
1.   Establishment of a National Agricultural Training
Institute (NATI) at Dala
(i) Construction   and/or rehabilitation   of  offices,
dormitory blocks, lecture rooms, a library and
study, mess block, workshops and staff houses;
(ii)  Provision of farm and transport equipment, office
and teaching materials and equipment; and
(iii) Provision of the services of an expatriate Prin-
cipal, a local Vice Principal-designate, as under-
study, and two teaching staff.
2.   Relocation of the Farmer Training, Center (FTC)
Relocation of the Barakoma FTC to Rendova Harbor including
construction of offices, staff houses, dormitories, lecture room
and mess block together with provision of farm and teaching
equipment.


﻿- 16 -
D.   Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
(i) Provision of one Project Adviser, one construction
and engineering consultant, and staff; and
(ii) Provision of administrative personnel, transport
and office equipment and supplies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to updatc such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be Drocured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to achieve effi-
ciency in pro/-urement, consistent with appropriate technical and
procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to, be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight


﻿- 18 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Solomon Islands may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) GrcAp   A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Solomon Islands if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Solomon Islands
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paiagraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 19 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than US$300,000 equivalent each may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Association, provided, however, that minor civil works may
be carried out through force account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 20 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expe-nditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Lorrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


