                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No. 33414




                   SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                      ROMANIA


                         FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                     No.4752 - RO


                                   DECEMBER 5, 2005




ECSPE Group
ECCU5 Country Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                    For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations

Operation ID: PE-P008791                                        Operation Name: First Programmatic Adjustment
                                                                Loan
Team Leader: Ronald Hood                                        TL Unit: ECSPE
                                                                Report Date:


1. Program Data

                Name: Programmatic Adjustment Loan                            L/C Number:  4752 - RO
  Country/Department: Romania ECSPE                                                Region: ECA
                       General public administration
      Sector/subsector:General energy sector
                       General finance sector
                       General transport sector
               Theme: Administrative and civil service reform
                       Public expenditure, financial management and procurement
                       Regulation and competition policy
                       State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization
                       Legal institutions for a market economy


KEY DATES
                                                                          Original          Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:     02/28/2003                                   Effective:    02/28/2005        02/28/2005
   Appraisal:  03/01/2004                                      MTR:
   Approval:   09/16/2004                                    Closing:     03/31/2005        03/31/2005



   Borrower/Implementing Agency:     Government of Romania / Ministry of Public Finance
                  Other Partners:



STAFF                     Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                                    Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Anand K. Seth                                   Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:           Bernard Funck                                   Bernard Funck
Team Leader at ICR:       Ron Hood                                        Ron Hood
ICR Primary Author:       Ron Hood

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: S
                                      Sustainability: S
               Institutional Development Impact: S
                               Bank Performance: HS
                          Borrower Performance: S



                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                 Quality at Entry: HS                                  S
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time: NA                                     SU




3. Program Description

The Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) program reflects the Government's overarching objectives
of establishing solid economic growth, reducing poverty and joining the European Union. These objectives
are addressed by focusing on five key, cross-cutting themes: establishing public sector accountability; instilling
financial discipline; instituting regulatory reforms; following good social and environment risk management
practices; and ensuring property rights. In addition, the PAL provides continuity with previous adjustment
operations by ensuring sustained progress on the structural reforms begun under Private Sector Adjustment
Loans 1 and 2, while at the same time introducing a new program of phased public sector and regulatory
reforms that emphasizes institutional development and effective implementation.

The program is divided into two parts. The first part focuses on reforming core public sector institutions and
processes. The second targets the public-private interface and regulation of markets.

Part 1 Core Public Sector
    · Judicial reform
    · Civil service reform
    · Policy formulation
    · Transparency rules
    · Public expenditure management

Part 2: The Public-Private Interface and Regulated Markets
    · Privatization, restructuring and establishment of efficient markets
    · Energy sector reform
    · Mining and infrastructure reform
    · Business environment
    · Labor markets
    · Capital markets

PAL 1 is the first of a series of three PALs designed to support the Government's reform program over
the period to 2007 when accession to the European Union is anticipated. Phased progress is anticipated in
each of the areas listed above in each of the three PAL operations however the focus and emphasis will shift
from operation to operation. PAL 1 places greater emphasis on concluding the structural reforms begun under
the previous adjustment operations and including privatization and energy sector reforms. The second and third
PALs focus more on the preparation and adoption of necessary legislative frameworks to support institutional
reforms and the achievement of specific reform outcomes.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs


PAL 1 saw the successful completion of the following:

    · Enactment of legislative amendments to enhance the powers of the Superior Council of Magistracy
       (SCM)
    · Enactment of legislative amendments to eliminate the process of "extraordinary appeal" by the
       Prosecutor General against court decisions entered into force (res judicata)
    · Launch of a study on a rationalization of the court system to guide reforms in PALs 2 and 3.
    · Enactment of legislative provisions for introducing economic manager's positions in courts.
    · Launch of a program to develop the capacity of the National Agency for Civil Service Agency (NACS)
       to monitor and publicize agreed quarterly and annual monitoring indicators on civil service
       management practices, consistent with an action plan acceptable to the World Bank.
    · Launch of a comprehensive review of pay, grading and employment management within the central
       administration.
    · Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Assets, acceptable to the World Bank.
    · Establishment of Public Financial Management reform management structure.
    · Establishment of the basis for more effective and efficient resource utilization in the human
       development sectors, evidenced by: (i) Adoption of amendments to the Education Law and the
       Teachers Status Law as agreed with the Bank enabling piloting of the differentiated, nationwide per-
       capita financing formula for pre-university education; (ii) Government approval and launch of an
       action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to consolidate the public pension fund by amending the existing
       public pensions law; and (iii) Government approval of National Hospital Rationalization Strategy and
       establishment of high level Inter-ministerial Steering Committee for monitoring strategy
       implementation.
    · Definition of roles and responsibilities in the decentralized management of education, agreed with the
       Bank.
    · Implementation of actions for increasing transparency and reducing corruption in the health sector.
    · Offered for sale by the privatization agency (AVAS): 8 companies from the list of companies in the
       AVAS portfolio as of June 1, 2004, in which AVAS has at least 50 percent ownership and the
       companies have at least 100 employees; 4 companies on the June 1, portfolio in which AVAS has 50
       percent plus ownership and the companies have less than 100 employees; and on the Bucharest stock
       exchange, all the AVAS shares in 15 companies from those companies on the June 1, 2004 portfolio in
       which AVAS has a less than 50% interest.
    · Steps, satisfactory to the Bank, undertaken by the government to hire an investment bank financial
       advisor, in an open competitive tender, for the privatization of the national savings bank (CEC). The
       government has announced this publicly, has sought expressions of interest, formed a short list and sent
       an RFP to the consultants on the short list asking them to bid on the assignment.
    · Announcement and making public a schedule, acceptable to the Bank, to increase wellhead natural gas
       prices to economic levels, and implementation of adjustments in wellhead prices and retail prices in line
       with the announced schedule.
    · Approval and publication of a District Heating Strategy and the program for its phased implementation.

  · Approval and publication of a strategy for restructuring the mining sector in 2004-2010, in line with EU
      guidelines for environmental protection. The strategy set out detailed schedules for the mines to be
      privatized or closed, necessary employment reduction for each mine, as well as programs to address the
      social problems of the regions affected. The objective of this strategy would be to eliminate the losses
      from operations and subsidies by end 2007 for the lignite and metallic mines and by end 2010 for the
      hard coal mines.
  · Engagement by the Ministry of Transport of an international advisor to prepare a business and financial
      restructuring plan for Tarom and adoption by the Government of a business and financial restructuring
      plan acceptable to the Bank.
  · Launch of a corporate governance assessment (ROSC) regarding OECD corporate governance
      principles.
  · Approval by Parliament of amendments to the Bankruptcy Law.
  · Establishment of a working committee within the Consultative College on Accounting (CCC). The
      CCC has begun preparation of a detailed country action plan (CAP) on the basis of the policy
      recommendations within the ROSC ­ Accounting and Auditing report for presentation to the Prime
      Minister and endorsement by the Government.
  · Establishment of a multi-partite Consultative Committee to assess the impact of the Labor Code on the
      labor market and appointment of an international advisor to review the Labor Code
  · Adoption of a consolidated law on capital markets including regulatory framework for closed end funds
      including SIFs.
  · Agreement with Securities Exchange Commission (CNVM) on TORs and funding of
      Functional/Capacity Assessment Review (FCAR) for the Commission
  · Agreement with the Bank on the scope, source of financing, the terms of reference and the advisor to
      carry out the preparation of a Capacity Assessment Review on the capacity of the departments of the
      Insurance Supervision Commission to meet IAIS standards of supervision


There has been progress on the overarching objectives.

                                                                Progress at end PAL 1
    Program Goals
    Economic growth                   ·    2002 growth rate = 5.0%
                                      ·    2003 growth rate = 4.9%
                                      ·    2004 growth rate = 8.3%
    Reduction of poverty              ·    Extreme poverty rate 10.9 (2002) and 9.3 (2003)
                                      ·    Total poverty rate 28.9 (2002) and 25.7 (2003)
                                      ·    No further measures on poverty at this time
    Macroeconomic stability                                             2002             2003    2004
                                      Inflation (CPI eop)                17.8            14.1    9.3
                                      Public sector overall              -2.6            -2.3    -1.1
                                      balance (%GDP)
                                      Current account Balance            -3.4            -5.9    -7.5
                                      (%GDP)
                                      Reserve cover (months)              3.5            3.3     4.5
                                      Arrears of selected SOE to         24.5            26.8    34.1
                                      state budget ROL trillion.
                                      Arrears of private                 44.6            41.5    40.4
                                      enterprises to state budget
                                      ROL trillion.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Lack of political commitment was seen as a potential risk to the operation. In late 2003 it looked as if there
might be slippage on several key components of the program including preparation of a position paper on labor
code amendments, government approval of the mining sector strategy, agreement on a competitive tendering
process for power company privatization, agreement on certain pension reforms and other matters. These issues
were pointed out in a letter to the Prime Minister. There was follow-up in the form of several letters written
jointly by the World Bank and the IMF addressing individual topics. In the spring of this year the European
Commissioner sent a strong message that the pace of reform needed to be picked up or Romania's entry into the
EU would be in jeopardy. The Bank also communicated through various channels that the team would not be
influenced by a desire to get to the Board before June 30, 2004 and in fact the project was not presented for
approval until September. These pressures were effective and there was a marked pickup in the pace of reforms
particularly of privatizations. Progress in Judicial reform was minimal until the Minister of Justice, who was
herself involved in several lawsuits, was replaced by the Prime Minister under strong pressure from a wide
variety of sources.

The areas which have proven the most difficult to make substantive progress during PAL 1 were
decentralization and public administration reform. There are issues of technical complexity and issues of
political will here. Decentralization requires cooperation between the Ministry of Public Finance and the
Ministry of Public administration and the PAL team has worked very closely with both ministries to bridge
natural tensions between the ministries and has achieved tripartite agreement upon a tightly constructed timeline
of joint decision-making and legislative reforms to underpin decentralization reforms through the series of
PALs. Complexity and political sensitivity have also presented challenges for civil service reform. Here the
PAL team has leveraged the Bank's influence with that of the EU and the substantial package of EU technical
assistance to ensure sustained progress.


6. Bank and Borrower Performance


Bank performance has been highly satisfactory. The program is a complex multi-sector operation which has
nonetheless maintained coherence and impact. The country office staff played an important role in both the
substance of the program and in coordination with the authorities. The operation complied with all relevant
environmental and business policies. The environmental classification is U which means that OD8.60 applies
and an assessment of environmental policies and practices is recommended (although not required). The EU
requires environmental assistance systems that meet its standards and this will provide substantial impetus to
government efforts to improve their systems. However it is clear that at present Romania is short of the EU
requirements. Accordingly a country safeguard systems pilot analytical report is underway for delivery in FY06.

Borrower performance has been satisfactory. If somewhat belatedly, the Prime Minister did take a direct role
in getting the PAL line Ministries to adopt the PAL measures. The Minister Chancellor took a very active role
promoting the PAL within the government and in interfacing with the Bank team. His successor in the new
government has taken up a similar role for PAL 2 and both the agenda and the implementation arrangements for
PAL 2 have been kept intact. The Borrower established the Project Implementation Unit within the Chancellery
of the Prime Minister's Office. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been very effective in terms of
keeping the line ministries aware of the necessary steps for meeting the objectives of the PAL program and in
terms of the monitoring and reporting to the Prime Minister, the Chancellor and to the Bank.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

Political considerations will continue to be an issue that needs to be managed. The election in the fall of
2004 following the PAL 1 board approval was seen as a potential risk, as the outcome was not certain and there
could have been some backtracking or even rejection of reform agreements. The incumbents lost to a rather
fragmented coalition that has taken several months to find its footing. From an early stage the PAL team urged
the new Prime Minister to retain the PAL Implementation Unit within his office and to send clear signals to the
line ministries that the PAL agenda and triggers agreed with the previous government would be kept. In this the
team has been successful. The responsibility for the PAL implementation unit and for ensuring PAL 2 is
successfully concluded has been given to an energetic and committed Minister Delegate in the Prime Minister's
office, and the practice of producing regular quarterly progress reports has been continued.

PA reform, district heating and adoption of the new labor code amendments which are actively resisted
by strong labor unions are likely to be the most difficult parts of the program. There appears to be a
modest breakthrough on decentralization with detailed agreement reached between the Ministry of Public
Finance and the Ministry of Interior on the process and timetable for preparing new legislation on
intergovernmental fiscal relations. This process was brokered by the PAL team.

Coordination with the IMF and the EU has been crucial to the success of the program. The IMF has had a
series of SBA agreements with the authorities and there has been considerable overlap particularly in structural
areas. This has had to closely be coordinated but in the end has proven effective in achieving reform objectives.
The promise of EU accession has also been a strong motivating force. This will taper off however, as the
accession date approaches and accession becomes more certain. The current SBA will likely be the Fund's last
so the policy dialogue context for the PAL series will shift over time.

