Page  1
Report No. 
25846 
 
Project Name                        
Romania Programmatic Adjustment Loan 
Region                            
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
Sector                           
 
Multi-Sector 
Project ID                        
 
P008791 
Borrower                          
 
Government of Romania 
Implementing Agency            
Office of the Prime Minister 
Environmental Category           
U 
Date This PID Prepared         
February 26, 2004 
Date Initial PID Prepared       
April 11, 2003 
Appraisal Date 
 
          
March 1, 2004 
Projected Board Date              
September 16, 2004 
 
Country Background 
 
In contrast to the boom and bust cycles of the mid-1990s Romania has achieved strong 
macroeconomic performance since 2000. GDP growth turned positive in 2000 climbing 
to 5.3 percent in 2001 and 4.5 percent in 2002. At the same time inflation was reduced 
from over 50 percent at the beginning of 2000 to 19.0 percent by the end of 2002. The 
authorities acted in late 2000 to reverse election-related increases in public spending, 
with adjustments to energy prices and efforts to tighten increases in wages. Export 
growth has been very strong reflecting investment in industries specialized in consumer 
good exports and spurred in part by the depreciation of the lei in 1999. Competitiveness 
has been sustained by increases in productivity. Interest rates have declined steadily, 
although they remain high in real terms. 
Fiscal policy changes have included comprehensive reforms to the VAT, profits taxes 
and excises, as well as cuts in the excessively high payroll taxes. Collection rates remain 
low, however, and further improvements in tax administration are needed. Fiscal deficits 
remain under control but could be threatened in the medium term by lack of progress on 
structural reforms. 
The banking sector has been placed on a much firmer footing. This is a result of the 
closure, under PSAL 1, of the large troubled state owned Bancorex, the restructuring of 
Bank Agricola and BCR, and the elimination of central bank financed directed lending. 
The banking sector is now profitable, with a system-wide capital adequacy ratio of 27 
percent. The soundness of macro policies and the moderate levels of external debt have 
resulted in a series of credit upgrades, the most recent by Moodys to B1 for foreign 
currency bonds and B2 for deposits. 
Bank credit, especially to the non-government sector has been accelerating, though 
mostly in foreign currency. The level of below-standard loans is low at 5-6 percent, 
although this picture could change as more stringent standards of classification and 
provisioning are introduced later this year. Overall, the short term vulnerabilities that 
Romania faces are modest and it is the medium term issues that need to be addressed.  
Page  2
Under the PSAL 1 and PSAL II programs Romania has been pursuing an active program 
of privatization. While there has be substantial progress further steps will be required to 
complete the transition to a market economy and to better insulate the state budget from 
deficit pressures arising from state-owned enterprises.  These initiatives as well as 
important reforms in social sectors also supported but the PSAL programs will be further 
advanced under the PAL 
The Proposed Loan/Credit 
 
The proposed loan of US$150 million equivalent is a Programmatic Adjustment Loan 
that will support the Government's medium term program of policy and institutional 
reforms and reflects the main overarching themes of the CAS: EU accession, growth 
through combined public and private sector reforms, and poverty reduction. These 
themes are addressed with a program based on three pillars as outlined below.  
 
Making Core Public Sector Reforms 
Romania faces major challenges in reforming public institutions to improve 
administrative and judicial capacity. The 2002 Roadmap for Accession stated that the 
“capacity of the public administration to implement the acquis …remains a major 
constraint on Romania’s accession preparations”. It further expresses “serious concerns 
related to the functioning of the judiciary”.  These issues are also given high priority in a 
variety of analytical and diagnostic work recently done by the Bank including the Public 
Expenditure and Institutions Review, the Diagnostic Survey on Corruption in Romania 
and Diagnostic Report on Legal and Judicial Systems in Romania.  They encompass a 
number of important sub issues such as civil service reform, public expenditure 
management practices and transparency in governance that together constitute the main 
priority for the Government.  At this time,  the authorities, and particularly the Prime 
Minister,  appear to recognize the importance of these issues both to Romania’s 
development and to its accession aspirations.  Consequently the timing is good for 
adopting them as targets of PAL conditionality.   
Building a Competitive Private Sector 
Accession to the EU requires that Romania meet the Copenhagen criteria, namely that it 
have a fully functioning market economy and that it be able to withstand the competitive 
pressures and market forces in the EU.  Again there are several key sub issues.  First is 
completion of the privatization agenda begun under PSAL 1 and 2, and measures to deal 
with the large loss-making SOEs which threaten recent gains on the macroeconomic 
front. Second is improvement of the business environment.  This is given added weight 
by the completed second round of the BEEPS survey on the business environment which 
indicates that, in sharp contrast to the rest of the region, businesses perceive that 
problems of corruption and regulation are actually worsening.  Finally, there is scope for 
reforms to improve the flexibility of the labor market. 
 
Page  3
There are some important sub themes in the PAL as well, each of which finds expression 
in several of the program components.  For instance, corruption affects the business 
environment, the effectiveness of the judiciary, the management of public expenditures, 
the civil service and so on.  Similarly the need for effective decentralization permeates 
several of the program components.  The table below shows how these kinds of sub 
themes are related to the program components, and in so doing gives the basic 
architecture of the PAL.  The pillars provide the framework for the specification of core 
and non-core conditions and triggers, and will define the main blocks of the policy 
matrix.  The structure of the themes and sub-themes is articulated so as to guide the 
process of identifying desired outcomes.  Progress on the over arching themes can be 
directly measured through growth and poverty indices.  At the sub theme level the 
effectiveness of the CS reforms under the governance/corruption sub-theme, for instance, 
might be measured by elimination of the spikes of post-election staff turnover or by 
improvements in the results of household or business surveys of interactions with the 
public administration.  The PAL will strive for clear definition of outcomes and the 
measurement instruments to ensure that the PAL achieves its objectives. 
 
SUB THEMES
 
OVER ARCHING THEMES  
 
·
Growth  
·
EU accession 
·
Poverty  reduction  
Improved 
Governance/ 
anti - 
corruption 
Effective 
Decentralization 
Macroeconomic 
stability 
Functioning 
market 
economy 
Efficient use  
of  public  
resources 
Public sector 
 
·
Judicial reform 
X
X
·
Civil service 
X
X
X
X
·
Policy making 
administrative 
accountability 
X
X
X
·
Public expenditure 
management 
X
X
X
X
Private sector
 
·
Privatization and efficient 
markets
 
X
X
X
X
·
Business environment
 
X
X
X
·
Labor markets
 
X
X
·
Capital markets 
 
P
I
L
L
A
R
S
·
Fiscal transfer systems 
X
X
X
Poverty Category 
 
The proposed operation has poverty reduction as an objective, and includes components 
that will result in improved delivery of education and health services.  Improvements in 
public administration would also positively impact the delivery of  social services. 
 
Benefits and Risks 
Page  4
The main benefits are higher incomes, lower unemployment, and reduction in the poverty 
rate. More specific outcomes include: (a) improved infrastructure services; (b) improved 
business climate to facilitate FDI and SME growth; (c) higher public administration 
efficiency and reduced corruption; and (e) more efficient education and health service 
delivery. The main risks are: (a) weak implementation capacity which needs 
strengthening through technical assistance programs; and (b) obstacles emanating from 
political opposition and interest groups. 
 
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending XXX. 
 
