                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000620




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (EXIM-02880 IBRD-47520 NETH-27905)




                                    ON A

                 FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 123.4 MILLION
                        (US$ 150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                                  ROMANIA




                                 June 24, 2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
ECCU5
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2008)

                         Currency Unit = Romanian Lei (RON)
                                US$ 1.00 = RON 2.3626

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANFP Civil Service National Agency           ICR       Implementation Completion and Results
                                                       Report
ANRE The Electricity and Gas Regulator       IMF       International Monetary Fund
AVAS Privatization Agency                    IOSCO     International Organization of Securities
                                                       Commissions
BCR  Commercial Bank of Romania              NATO      North Atlantic Treaty Organization
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy             PAL       Programmatic Adjustment Loan
CEC  Savings Bank                            PEIR      Public Expenditure and Institutional
                                                       Review
DPL  Development Policy Lending              PMU       Program Management Unit
CFAA Country Financial Accountability        PPIBL     Public and Private Institutions Building
     Assessment                                        Loan
CPAR Country Procurement Assessment          PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
     Review
DPL  Development Policy Lending              QAG       Quality Assurance Group
EC   European Commission                     ROSC      Report on Standards and Codes
EU   European Union                          SCM       Supreme Council of Magistracy
FDI  Foreign Direct Investment               SEC       Securities and Exchange Commission
GDP  Gross Domestic Product                  SCPPSA    Superior Council on Public Policies and
GSG  General Secretariat of the Government             Structural Adjustment




               Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

            Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos

             Sector Manager: Bernard Funck

           Task Team Leader: Ronald Hood

            ICR Team Leader Ivailo Izvorski

                                           ROMANIA
     FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PAL1)


                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 23

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 24
Annex 2. PAL Policy Matrix (PAL2 Stage)................................................................. 27
Annex 3. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 41
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 45
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Programmatic
                                                                     Adjustment Loan
Country:               Romania                 Program Name:         (PAL) (formerly
                                                                     Institutional & Govt.
                                                                     Reform SAL)
                                                                     COFN-02880,IBRD-
Program ID:            P008791                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     47520,TF-27905
ICR Date:              06/24/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    PSL                     Borrower:
                                                                     ROMANIA
Original Total
                       USD 150.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 163.6M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Chancellery of the Prime Minister
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/28/2003     Effectiveness:       02/28/2005         02/28/2005
Appraisal:             03/01/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/16/2004    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:             03/01/2005         03/31/2005


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:            Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:                Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)               Rating:

Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                         Highly Satisfactory
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General energy sector                                             20                 20
General finance sector                                            20                 20
General industry and trade sector                                 20                 20
General public administration sector                              30                 30
General transportation sector                                     10                 10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                          Primary           Primary
Legal institutions for a market economy                          Primary           Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                 Primary           Primary
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos             Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:            Bernard G. Funck                   Bernard G. Funck
Program Team Leader:       Ivailo V. Izvorski                 Ronald D. Hood
ICR Team Leader:           Ivailo V. Izvorski
ICR Primary Author:        Ivailo V. Izvorski




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PAL program reflects the Government's overarching objectives of establishing solid
economic growth, reducing poverty and joining the European Union. These objectives
will be addressed by focusing on five key, cross-cutting themes: establishing public
sector accountability; instilling financial discipline; instituting regulatory reforms;
following good social and environment risk management practices; and ensuring property
rights. The program is divided into two parts. The first part focuses on reforming core
public sector institutions and processes. The second targets the public-private interface
and regulation of markets.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
Program Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target   Formally      Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from    Revised        Achieved at
                                             approval      Target       Completion or
                                            documents)     Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Macroeconomic stability

                                        Real GDP growth               Real GDP growth

                 Real GDP growth of     of 4.8 percent in             of 6 percent in

                 4.9 percent in 2003;   2007; fiscal                  2007; fiscal balance

Value            fiscal deficit of      balance of 2.6                of 2.3 percent;

(quantitative or 2.3%GDP; inflation of percent; inflation             inflation of 4.8

Qualitative)     14.1% at the end of    of 4.5 percent on             percent on average

                 2003; current account  average in 2007;              in 2007; current

                 deficit of 5.9%GDP     current account               account deficit of

                                        deficit of 5.2%               13.9 percent of
                                                                      GDP
Date achieved    08/06/2004             12/31/2007                    06/23/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Independence of the judiciary
                                        Enhance the SCM

Value                                   powers and create

(quantitative or Supreme Council of     a permanent                   Done
Qualitative)     Magistracy exists      administrative
                                        structure of the
                                        council
Date achieved    08/06/2004             12/31/2007                    06/23/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                             iii

Indicator 3 :    Labor force participation
Value                                                                     64.6% for men
(quantitative or 63.6% for men (52.1% move toward the                     (53% for women)
Qualitative)     for women) in 2002       70% Lisbon target               in 2007
Date achieved    08/06/2004               12/31/2007                      06/23/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    State aid for the mining sector
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Legal framework for corporate governance
Value            legal framework not in fully in line with
(quantitative or line with international international                    done
Qualitative)     standards                standards by 2007
Date achieved    08/06/2004               12/31/2007                      06/23/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target  Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                              approval       Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)    Target Values     Target Years
                 The PAL1 was approved by the Bank Board in September 2004. Preparation
Indicator 1 :    of the PAL2 was stopped in January 2007. Preparation of the PAL3 did not
                 start.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


 No.     Date ISR                                                              Actual
         Archived                DO                       IP               Disbursements


                                               iv

                                                        (USD millions)
 1    12/21/2004        Satisfactory     Satisfactory             0.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      v

            1. PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN


The First Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL1) for Romania was initially prepared as
part of a three-series PAL program during 2003-2004, at a time when stabilization
attempts in the previous couple of years were beginning to bear fruit, but further
determined and coordinated efforts were needed to firmly establish macroeconomic
stability and sustain robust economic growth, improve living standards and reduce
poverty, and ensure EU accession. The PAL was designed to help the Government
achieve these objectives by supporting the Government program through 2007. The PAL
series was prepared in close cooperation with the IMF, the European Commission (EC),
and other partners. The shared overarching goal of EU accession among all political
parties in Romania and the robust coordination and implementation arrangements on the
part of the Government were key factors in the preparation and completion of the PAL1.

As detailed in this ICR, all of the reforms supported by the PAL1 were implemented and
the World Bank Board approved the loan in September 2005. Most of the reforms under
the PAL2 and many under the PAL3 were also implemented, but the PAL2 was not
negotiated and preparation was stopped in early 2007, as discussed below. This ICR, as a
result, assesses the implementation and completion of the PAL1, making references to the
other two components of the initial PAL series as necessary.

Romania's economic performance during transition through the early parts of this century
was mixed. Recurrent policy slippages during the previous decade resulted in
macroeconomic reversals, with a significant drop in output and a bout of high inflation in
the late 1990s. Real GDP dropped by a cumulative 12 percent from 1996 to 1999, and
annual inflation averaged 88 percent during the same period. The country's EU
accession aspirations, however, spurred effective reform efforts and strong results this
decade. A program of macroeconomic stabilization began to tackle these problems. The
parliamentary elections in November 2000 brought a new Government with a new policy
agenda. The Government priorities outlined in its 2001-2004 program included stronger
economic growth, reduction in poverty and unemployment, and integration into the EU
and NATO. These policy efforts were supported by adjustment operations with the
World Bank (PSAL1 and PSAL2, the predecessors of the PAL) and a standby
arrangement with the IMF (2001-2003), the first standby arrangement Romania
completed fully.

The key challenges the Romanian authorities faced at the time the PAL1 was prepared
were to sustain and build on the macroeconomic progress achieved in the early parts of
this decade and accede to the EU. The Government's economic agenda recognized the
need to accelerate strong economic growth to improve living standards, reduce
unemployment and cut poverty, and underlined the importance of maintaining hard-won
macroeconomic stability. The agenda confirmed the need to strengthen reform
implementation, help boost inflows of foreign direct investment and improve governance.
It was seen as essential that a two-pronged approach be implemented, supporting efforts,




                                              1

on the one side, to reform the core public sector, and, on the other, to revamp the public-
private interface and regulated markets.

A new Government came to power as a result of the November/December 2004 elections,
shortly after the Bank Board approved the PAL1. Initially, the Government reviewed and
adopted the PAL program as its own, incorporating its key components into the
Government program. As prospects for EU accession firmed, however, the Government
determination to advance reforms waned. Financial need was also not a factor any more,
as EU accession prospects, together with past reform implementation, helped boost
inflows of capital (foreign investment, EU grants and privatization receipts) and
strengthened growth and the fiscal position. The privatization of CEC, the savings bank,
and Turceni, an electricity generator, both core conditions, were not completed; all the
other conditions of the PAL2, by contrast, were met. These factors together led the
Government not to respond to an invitation to negotiate issued by the Bank on May 29,
2006. Preparation of the PAL2 was formally stopped in early 2007. Preparation of the
PAL3 did not start.


1.1 Context at Appraisal


In support of the interconnected agenda of reforming the core public sector institutions,
the public-private interface and the regulation of markets, the Bank prepared the PAL to
focus on the key constraints to achieving faster economic growth, higher living standards
and EU accession. The PAL was the main instrument through which the Government
approached the structural reform agenda in a systematic manner. The close collaboration
and coordination with the IMF, the extensive dialogue and engagement with the
European Commission and other bilateral and multilateral donors, were crucial for the
design and success of the PAL and were assessed as such by a QAG Quality at Entry
Review conducted in December 2005.

The agenda supported by the PAL was ambitious and at various times during preparation
questions were raised about whether it was not too broad and whether the Bank should
not support a more focused and narrow set of reforms. The Government, however,
perceived that progress on such a wide front was needed to make EU accession a reality
and insisted that the PAL support these reforms. The QAG review of the quality of entry
(2005) agreed that the Bank responded correctly to Government demands for advancing
an operation with substantial depth and breadth. The broad agenda, however, was
designed to be implemented over the full PAL program. With only the PAL1 completed,
however, the breadth of the agenda became an issue given the overwhelming focus of the
PAL1 on institutional and legislative changes and backloading of implementation to the
PAL2 and the PAL3. That only the PAL1 would be prepared was hard to foresee at the
time of PAL1 appraisal, however.

During preparation, concerns were also raised about the capacity of the Government to
implement reforms. Such concerns were heightened in late 2003, when it looked as
though there might be slippage on several key components of the program including



                                             2

preparation of a position paper on labor code amendments, government approval of the
mining sector strategy, agreement on a competitive tendering process for power company
privatization, agreement on certain pension reforms and other matters. Intensive dialogue,
including within the Government, on the need to advance these reforms ensured that the
Government continued work on these individual topics. The Chancellery of the Prime
Minister, and the Ministry of Finance were key factors in this intensive dialogue. The
Bank also communicated that the team would not be influenced by a desire to meet
internal Board approval timetables before June 30, 2004 and in fact the project was not
presented for approval until September. Commitments to the EU related to adoption of
the acquis to "close" the negotiating chapters also provided a strong anchor that the pace
of reform at that time needed to pick up to ensure Romania's accession. Together, these
measures were effective and progress in reform implementation accelerated markedly
prior to the Board presentation.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The PAL program reflects the Government's overarching objectives of establishing solid
economic growth, reducing poverty and joining the European Union. Under the PAL,
these objectives were addressed by focusing on five key, cross-cutting themes:
establishing public sector accountability; instilling financial discipline; instituting
regulatory reforms; following good social and environment risk management practices;
and ensuring property rights. The program is divided into two parts. The first part
focuses on reforming core public sector institutions and processes. The second targets
the public-private interface and regulation of markets.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification


There were no formal changes to the program development objectives or key indicators
during the implementation of the program.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)


The program has two components. The first focuses on reforming the core public sector
institutions and processes. The second targets the public-private interface and the
regulation of markets. Within each of these there are several sub-components. These
components cover the PAL reform agenda and in some cases there are no specific
conditions for the PAL1.

The first component (core public sector) has five sub-components:
    · Judicial reform sub-component, aimed at strengthening the institutional
        independence and budgetary autonomy of the judiciary and increasing its
        accountability, enhancing the efficiency of the court system and increasing the
        professionalism and integrity of judges.




                                             3

   · Civil service sub-component, with the goal of developing a professional and
      efficient civil service, and enhancing pay and employment management and
      effectiveness (while increasing their transparency).
   · Policy formulation sub-component, aimed at improving the predictability and
      effectiveness of government policies.
   · Transparency rules sub-component, aimed at bringing accountability to public life.
   · Public expenditure management sub-component, with the goal of reinforcing
      strategic management; implementing new financing, budget and resource
      allocation reforms in social sectors; building accountability for results in these
      sectors' decision-making structures and developing a decentralization framework
      that clarifies functional assignments and relationships between the central
      government and local governments.

The second component (the public-private interface and regulated markets) also has five
sub-components:
   · Privatization, restructuring and establishment of efficient markets sub-component,
      aimed at disposing of the inventory of the privatization agency (AVAS) through
      privatization, restructuring and liquidation, and facilitating the exit of the state
      from ownership of commercial banks by completing the privatization of BCR and
      CEC.
   · Energy sector reform sub-component, aimed at establishing a modern power and
      natural gas sectors consistent with the EU market liberalization principles and, in
      the case of power, capable of meeting consumer demand; and restructuring the
      district heating sector.
   · Mining and infrastructure sub-component, aiming to reduce the burden of the
      mining sector on the budget, improve the financial performance of the national
      airline Tarom, restructure the railways, and modernize the administration and
      management of highways and roads.
   · Business environment sub-component, aimed at strengthening the corporate
      governance of the enterprise sector, simplifying the administrative and regulatory
      procedures (to increase transparency and reduce costs for business entry and
      operation), improving the bankruptcy process and improving the transparency in
      the functioning of firms.
   · Labor markets sub-component, with the goal of enhancing the flexibility of the
      labor market to facilitate labor mobility, enterprise privatization and restructuring
      and sectoral reforms.
   · Capital markets sub-component, aimed at developing a comprehensive legal,
      regulatory and supervisory framework for securities markets and investment
      funds; and developing the insurance market, municipal bond market and the
      private pension market.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas


There were no revisions of the policy areas.




                                            4

1.6 Other significant changes


There were no significant changes to design, scope, scale, implementation arrangements
and schedule and funding allocations.

             2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES



2.1 Program Performance


The PAL1 was approved by the Bank Board on September 16, 2004, with all 15 core
conditions met, and disbursed on February 28, 2005. All non-core conditions were also
met. Macroeconomic performance was strong and the IMF program was on track.


                                                    PAL1
    Tranche #              Amount            Expected        Actual Release            Release
                                           Release Date            Date
       First           US$150 million     Sept 16, 2004     Feb 28, 2005                Regular



                                                    PAL 1
 List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                   Status
 1. The Borrower has enacted legislative amendments, satisfactory to the Bank, to     Met.
 enhance the status and power of the Superior Court of Magistracy.
 2. The Borrower has enacted legislative amendments which eliminated an               Met.
 extraordinary appeal by the Prosecutor General of court decisions entered into
 force.
 3. The Borrower has enacted amendments to the Law on Declaration of Assets,          Met.
 satisfactory to the Bank.
 4. The Borrower has established a cross-ministerial Public Finance Management        Met.
 Reform Committee chaired by the Minister of Public Finance, with a mandate
 and structure satisfactory to the Bank.
 5. The Borrower has enacted amendments to the Education Law and the                  Met.
 Teachers' Statute, satisfactory to the Bank.
 6. The Borrower has approved an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for           Met.
 consolidation of the public pension plan.
 7. The Borrower has approved the National Hospital Rationalization Strategy          Met.
 and established and Interministerial Steering Committee for monitoring
 implementation.
 8. The Borrower has offered for sale twenty-seven companies in AVAS'                 Met.
 portfolio, the list of which has been agreed with the Bank.
 9. The Borrower has taken satisfactory actions for hiring, through a competitive     Met.
 process, a financial advisor for the privatization of CEC, with qualifications and
 terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
 10. The Borrower has adopted a strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, for               Met.
 restructuring of the mining sector in 2004-2010, consistent with the European
 Union's standards and guidelines for environmental protection.
 11. The Borrower, through the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism        Met.
 has hired an international advisor for the preparation of the restructuring plan for



                                                       5

  Tarom S.A., with qualification and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
  and has adopted said plan.
  12. The Borrower has approved and put on ANGGN's website a timetable,           Met.
  acceptable to the Bank, for the increase in well-head natural gas prices to
  economic levels, and has made satisfactory progress in implementing said table.
  13. The Borrower has approved a District Heating Strategy, satisfactory to the  Met.
  Bank, and published a synopsis of said strategy in the Official Gazette.
  14. The Borrower has enacted amendments to the Insolvency Law, satisfactory     Met.
  to the Bank.
  15. The Borrower has enacted a consolidated Law on Capital Markets,             Met.
  satisfactory to the Bank.



Preparation of the PAL2 (formally the PAL2 is a DPL, but the name was kept to preserve
continuity) started with a concept review in July 2004 and appraisal was held in January
2006. By May 2006 all core actions but one were met (the remaining action was the
privatization of the Turceni energy company). At the request of the government, the
Bank sent on May 29, 2006 a letter to negotiate that clarified that in addition to the
outstanding action the Bank would need to ascertain a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework, demonstrated, inter alia, either by the standby program with the Fund
coming back on-track or, following the expiration of the standby from July 2006, positive
outcomes by the Bank's intended semi-annual assessments of the economy. The
Government did not respond to the Bank's invitation to negotiate. With a letter to the
Government dated January 11, 2007, the Bank suspended further work on the PAL
program, noting lack of response from the Government to the invitation to negotiate and
no progress on launching the privatization of Turceni.


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:


The most important factor affecting implementation (and preparation) was the EU
accession context. The determination of the authorities and all parliamentary political
parties to make EU accession a reality led the Government to commit to a program of
structural and institutional reforms that was impressive in its breath and depth. This
determination was also reflected in the empowering of the Chancellery of the Prime
Minister in coordinating the government ministries and exerting pressure, if needed, to
bring reforms to completion. The establishment of a very strong Program Management
Unit (PMU) within the Chancellery of the Prime Minister was also part of that
commitment, and its set-up at that level was seen as an insurance against political and
implementation risks, as highlighted in the PAL1 document. Although the PMU was
closed in February 2007, the PMU's persistence for some time after the elections (see the
following point) and its success in helping ensure the achievement of most of the reforms
supported under the PAL2 is testament to the effectiveness of that strategy.

Once the political goal of EU accession was realized, the will to advance the
remaining reforms under the PAL waned. In the summer of 2006, it was becoming
more likely that the EC would extend the invitation to accede on January 1, 2007, and



                                                     6

reform progress slowed substantially. The IMF standby expired in July 2006; the IMF
had declared the arrangement off-track in late 2005 amid concerns about fiscal policies.

As detailed in section 2.3, M&E arrangements, and the strategic placing of the PMU
in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister were very important for effective
implementation. These arrangements demonstrated the Government's determination to
meet the program objectives and gave a strong signal to the various Government
ministries and agencies about the strong political commitment on the part of the Prime
Minister.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:


M&E and implementation arrangements were thorough and contributed substantially to
reform implementation and the achievement of development objectives. A Superior
Council on Public Policies and Structural Adjustment (SCPPSA) was created for the
implementation and monitoring of the PAL program. It met in its first full session with
the main members of the PAL team and a representative of the EC on December 2, 2003,
chaired by the Prime Minister. Subsequently, the functions of the Council were
delegated to the Chancellery and the PAL PMU established within it. The Council, and
subsequently the Chancellery, had oversight both of the PAL and of related activities in
the public administration reform supported by the EU, an arrangement that helped ensure
appropriate coordination of the PAL- and EU-supported programs. The PAL PMU was
established with funding from the Bank's Public and Private Institution Building Loan
(PPIBL) to assist with the day-to-day monitoring of PAL activities. The General
Secretary of Government (GSG) had special responsibilities for PAL implementation in a
manner that anticipated the fuller development of that office as the entity responsible for
the policy formulation function within government. A Public Policy Unit has been
formed as a permanent body in the GSG's office for this purpose.

During the course of the PAL program, the PAL PMU produced quarterly progress
reports (starting after the loan approval and through the end of 2006). These provided
information on the status of implementation of each of the PAL conditions and triggers.
The reports were initially supposed to track performance on 48 medium-term progress
indicators intended to show the progress of the PAL program in producing desirable
outcomes in each of the program components. However, only a small subset of these
indicators was tracked. In retrospect, the number of indicators could have been
substantially smaller and more focused to enable better monitoring of outcomes.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):


Since the preparation of the PAL2 was suspended in January 2007, no further
development policy lending has taken place and none is planned under the current
Country Partnership Strategy. Some of the reforms supported by the PAL have been
supported by ongoing Bank operations, including the ongoing PPIBL, the Judicial
Reform Project, the Transport Restructuring Project and Transport Support Project, the
post-FSAP monitoring and others.


                                              7

                                3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The PAL objective of supporting the Government in achieving the overarching goal of
establishing solid economic growth, reducing poverty and joining the European Union
was highly relevant for the country and fully in line with the country assistance strategy
(CAS). These objectives were relevant given the diagnosis of the key constraints to
achieving stronger and more inclusive growth and completing the unfinished reforms of
the public administration and the public-private interface of market regulation that were
assessed as crucial for EU accession, as confirmed by the EC reports. This diagnosis was
echoed in the Government's program and affirmed in the agenda of the Government that
came to power in late 2004. The objective was also highly relevant in the context of the
Bank's growing and increasingly important involvement in middle income countries and
the lessons learned from the PAL could help contribute to improve that strategy as it is
implemented in future EU entrants (such as those in the western Balkans).

The policy agenda supported by the PAL was broad. There were 15 core conditions
under the PAL1, and more under the PAL2 and the PAL3, but the Government took a
leading role in designing this broad reform program and the Bank agreed while
acknowledging risks to implementation. In retrospect, a more focused agenda may have
been desirable, as that would have enabled more emphasis on implementation under the
PAL1.

The implementation arrangements were appropriate given the objectives (and the need to
accomplish reforms within a relatively short period of time), especially the key role the
Chancellery of the Prime Minister and the PMU played in coordination and
implementation. In hindsight, more attention could have been paid to strengthening
implementation capacity in some of the key ministries.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

The program development objectives were largely achieved. It should be noted that the
development objectives were designed to be achieved after all three phases of the PAL
were implemented. Although only PAL1 was approved by the Board and disbursed,
most of the reforms supported under the PAL2 were also completed and some were
deepened. The authorities, moreover, carried out a large number of the reforms intended
under the PAL3 even though that phase was never under preparation. The write-up in the
ICR attempts to assess whether the development objectives were achieved with respect to
the PAL1. Those developments objectives which were not related to specific policy
reforms under the PAL1, or which crucially depended on reforms to be implemented
under the PAL2 and the PAL3, will be clearly marked as such and accompanied with
appropriate discussion as needed.


                                                 8

Another important caveat is related to the heavy emphasis in the PAL1 on adopting the
legal and institutional framework was designed to be followed with focus on
implementation under the PAL2, the PAL3 and thereafter. The adoption of the legal and
institutional framework was achieved and was crucial for helping the country's economic
growth and EU accession aspirations. Implementation, however, has subsequently
lagged.

A. Maintain a stable macroeconomic environment. A stable macroeconomic
environment has been maintained, although this outcome was due more of late to the
supportive external environment than the quality of the country's own policy framework.
Risks have risen now amid the ongoing turmoil in international financial markets and
projected weakening of economic growth in the eurozone. Real GDP growth averaged
about 6 percent during 2005-2007, a full percentage point higher than projected at the
time of PAL1 approval (see Table below). Inflation, meanwhile, has been broadly as
projected, easing to 4.8 percent on average in 2007, although it began to pick up in late
2007 and risen to 8.6 percent year-on-year in March 2008 due to a large extent to higher
prices for imported energy and food (similar factors as in most countries in the world).

The current account deficit widened to about 14 percent of GDP in 2007, compared with
projections of little change at about 5 ¼ percent. Inflows of foreign direct investment
picked up more than projected, but finance only about 40 percent of the wider external
shortfall, increasing reliance on foreign borrowing. The wide current account deficit and
the large reliance on external borrowing are vulnerabilities. Such reliance on debt
financing boosted external debt to 46.7 percent of GDP in 2007 from 29.1 percent in
2005, substantially higher than projected. External debt is dominated by obligations
owed by commercial banks and private companies, with government external debt
amounting to 9 percent of GDP, or about one-fourth of total external debt. (Overall
government debt amounted to 12.1 percent of GDP at the end of 2007).

The fiscal balance over the last three years turned out better than projected at the time of
PAL1 approval, as surging revenues offset questionable spending initiatives. Concerns
about the direction of fiscal policy, however, led the IMF to declare the standby
arrangement in 2005 off-track. The Government planned a fiscal deficit of about
2.8 percent of GDP for 2008, prompting warnings from the EC that this would put fiscal
outcomes on a collision course with the EU Stability and Growth Pact. The Government,
in response, moved to amend the 2008 budget and now targets the fiscal balance to
remain little changed in 2008 at 2.3 percent of GDP.

            Key Macroeconomic Variables: Projections vs. Outcomes 1/
                    (In percent of GDP unless indicated otherwise)


                                                                2005 2006 2007

 Real GDP growth (in percent)                   projected        5.0  5.0  4.8
                                                actual           4.1  7.7  6.0
 Gross domestic investment                      projected       25.0 26.0 26.0
                                                actual          22.7 24.7 26.6



                                                  9

 Inflation (in percent)                         projected    6.6   5.5    4.5
                                                actual       9.0   6.6    4.8
 Fiscal balance                                 projected   -2.6  -2.6   -2.6
                                                actual      -0.8  -1.7   -2.3
 Current account balance                        projected   -5.3  -5.2   -5.2
                                                actual      -8.7 -10.5  -13.9
 FDI, net                                       projected    2.6   2.6    2.5
                                                actual       6.9   9.6    5.8
 External debt                                  projected  34.0  35.0      ...
                                                actual     39.1  43.0    46.7

 1/ Projections as per the President's report.

B. Judicial Reform

         The objective of strengthening of the institutional independence of the
judiciary was partially achieved, reflecting largely the fact that only reforms under
the PAL1 and the PAL2 were completed. The powers of the Supreme Council of the
Magistracy (SCM) were substantially enhanced and a permanent administrative structure
of the Council established, with adequate staffing, budget and functions. Further new
procedures were established for hiring and promoting of magistrates, but implementation
of this core action targeted for PAL3 has not been complete. The Bank's PPIBL helped
finance technical assistance to develop a new methodology for psychological testing of
the magistrates.

         The objective of increasing the accountability of the judiciary and developing
a judicial performance evaluation mechanism was partially achieved; it should be
noted that this objective was designed to be fully achieved after measures targeted
under the PAL3 were also implemented. Legislative amendments were enacted to
eliminate the process of "extraordinary appeal" by the Prosecutor General against court
decisions entered into force. An objective system for monitoring judicial performance
was developed, but is yet to be administratively established. The activity has been taken
into account and will be addressed within the Judicial Reform Project.

         The objective of enhancing the efficiency of the court system through
improving organizational structure of the court system and improving court
administration was partially achieved, with the caveat that this objective was
designed to be fully achieved after measures targeted under the PAL3 were also
implemented. A study on the rationalization of the court system was completed under
the PAL1, but its implementation - targeted under the PAL3 ­ was not completed.
Nonetheless, implementation is observed and targeted to be achieved under the Judicial
Reform Project. Similarly, regulations for defining the selection criteria and appointment
procedures for economic managers have been developed, but implementation has not yet
taken place. This implementation will also be monitored and is targeted to be achieved
under the Judicial Reform Project.

         The objectives of strengthening the budgetary autonomy of the judiciary and
the increasing of professionalism and integrity of judges were only partially


                                                 10

completed, largely because the PAL1 supported only a small portion of this segment
of the PAL agenda. As with the other objectives, achievement has reflected
Government efforts to improve harmonization of the judiciary with the EU. Under the
PAL2, regulations for implementing the Law on Judicial Organizations and the Law on
the SCM were adopted, and the NIM curriculum for initial judicial training was revised.
Two action plans were developed ­ one on the strengthening the capacity of the SCM and
another for the NIM and NSC. Implementation is in progress. A manual for planning
and budgeting future investments was elaborated in 2005, providing two important tools:
one for budgetary programming and one for prioritizing investments. The manual
includes a methodology of planning investments performed by the Ministry of Justice
(MoJ). To help with the implementation of the action plan for capacity strengthening,
training for economic managers was carried out in early 2006. Under the action plan for
judicial training, continuous training of magistrates started in 2006, and the workloads of
the judges delivering the training were eased to improve effectiveness.

C. Civil Service

        The objectives in this policy area were designed to be achieved after all three
phases of the PAL programs were completed. Progress achieving the objectives was
slow, as political support for deep civil service reform was difficult to muster. As a result,
despite extensive policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government during the
PAL1 and the PAL2, policy actions that were initially targeted to be completed earlier
during the PAL program were deferred to the PAL3 and were not completed. Further,
the civil service agency (ANFP) does not seem to have regularly monitored the set of
agreed indicators designed to facilitate progress in civil service reform. In hindsight, the
emphasis on indicators rather than bolder policy actions reflected a compromise given
lack of political support for deeper civil service reform. Absence of follow-up on the
indicators can also be interpreted similarly. It is an open question as to whether a
stronger Bank stance on upfront actions would have yielded different results.

        The objective of developing a professional, stable, transparent, unbiased and
efficient civil service was not achieved from the perspective of the whole PAL
agenda. This assessment is despite the completion of the only core benchmark under this
objective under the PAL program (adoption of amendments to the Civil Service Law) and
the achievement of both benchmarks under the PAL 1 and the PAL2. While the
benchmark supported by the PAL1 of launching a program for strengthening the capacity
of the ANFP to monitor a set of indicators of performance was met, the ANFP monitored
only a few of the indicators at irregular intervals and there is no data to demonstrate that
these indicators were monitored after the PAL1. None of these indicators were made
available to the ICR mission. Further, the change of the Government in late 2004
resulted in a substantial replacement of the civil service, an action that ran counter to the
principles the PAL1 was supporting.

        The objective of enhancing pay and employment management effectiveness
and increasing transparency has been only partially achieved. The policy action
supported by the PAL1 was completed and resulted in a valuable dataset for the policy



                                              11

makers. One of the key policy measures originally envisaged under the PAL2, the
adoption of the Law on Civil Service Salary Setting, is yet to be adopted. This is clearly
a difficult piece of legislation in any country, but lack of progress on this underlies the
issues in the area. The other (the adoption and implementation of a management reform
strategy) is being partially implemented.

D. Policy Formulation: The objective of improving the predictability and effectiveness
of government policies was designed to be achieved through the implementation of
policy actions supported under the PAL2 and the PAL3 and cannot be evaluated relative
to the PAL1.

E. Transparency Rules: The objective of bringing transparency and accountability
to public life, as related to the PAL1, was achieved. The amendments to the Law on
the Declaration of Assets adopted in 2004 were substantial and resulted in a marked
improvement of the process and quality of public declaration of assets. The declaration is
among the strictest in the EU, especially the requirement that officials set specific
amounts to the assets they declare, not ranges (as is the practice in a number of EU
countries and even in the US). The policy actions in this area adopted under the PAL1
have not been reversed and are an essential prerequisite for further efforts in improving
transparency. During the preparation of the PAL2, the Government adopted an anti-
corruption strategy and plan ahead of schedule, as this was seen important for EU
accession.

F. Public Expenditure Management

        The objective of reinforcing strategic management of Governance and Public
Financial Management (PFM) reform was partially achieved. There has been
progress in introducing quantitative indicators in the state budget, the modernization and
upgrading of the treasury system, the introduction (although not the full implementation)
of accrual accounting. Internal and external audits have also been strengthened.
Building on these reforms and the recommendation of the Bank's Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of 2004/5, a head of the PFM reform within the
Ministry of Public Finance was appointed, chairing a newly-established cross ministerial
committee. The shortfall of the reform reflects to a large extent the lack of a formal
medium-term expenditure framework to ground work by the ministries and ensure
predictability and the strategic direction of fiscal policy and finance management.

        The objective of implementing new financing, budget, and resource
allocation reforms to improve performance, strengthen management and build
accountability for results in the social sectors has been largely achieved. A more
effective and efficient resource utilization in the education sector, as supported by
reforms under the PAL1, has been partially achieved, as evidenced by a reduction in the
drop-outs of students in lower secondary education (as targeted). There has been
substantial school closure at the primary and lower secondary levels, helping yield cost
savings (as described in the World Bank 2006 PEIR). There has been a lot of technical
assistance supported by the PAL, other Bank instruments and other developments



                                              12

partners (in particular, the DfID), but a lot of the high quality technical work remains to
be implemented, a key concern.

        The action plan for the consolidation of the public pensions system was very
ambitious and politically difficult, but all actions were implemented. This helped
substantially improve the financial sustainability of the public pensions system, with the
public pension fund moving into surplus in 2006. The actions also helped enhance the
system predictability, improve the system's equity and enable the launching of second
pillar pensions. (In May 2008, the first contributions will be transferred to the private
pension funds.)

        The objective of building Accountability for Results Around Sector Decision-
making Structures in Social Sectors, referring to the health sector as supported by
the PAL1, has been largely achieved. Reforms in the health sector in Romania have
been substantial and have included separation of financing and provisions of healthcare
through the creation of the National Health Insurance House, a purchasing agency in
charge of buying health services from providers. This has helped improve both the
efficiency of resource use and its transparency. Information on the sources of uses of
funds for health is available as targeted. There is no officially published data that allows
an assessment of whether the level of informal payments has decreased, however.
During 2001-2004, however, the share of those who paid for hospitalization but did not
receive a receipt as little changed, as revealed in the ABF household survey.

G. Privatization, Restructuring and Establishment of Efficient Markets

        The objective of disposing of the inventory of AVAS firms (through
privatization, restructuring or liquidation) has been achieved. All conditions in the
policy matrix under this objective for both PAL1 and PAL2 have been achieved. The
state manufacturing sector has been privatized which, together with the sale of BCR, one
of the largest banks (see the discussion in the following paragraph) increased the share of
the private sector in GDP to 70 percent by 2005 from 65 percent in 2001. The number of
employees in state-owned companies fell by 74 percent from June 1, 2004 (the
benchmark) until the end of 2005 (the target date). The latter is just one percentage point
short of the 75 percent target.

        The objective of completing the exit of the State from ownership of
commercial banks by completing the privatization of BCR and CEC banks can be
evaluated only in the light of the whole PAL series, as these privatizations were
targeted under the PAL2. From the viewpoint of the PAL1, the objective has been
achieved. The Government sold a majority stake of BCR, the biggest bank in Romania,
to Erste Bank of Austria in December 2005 through an open, international and
competitive tender for 3.75 billion in what is still the largest privatization deal to date in
Romania. A tender for the sale of CEC, a smaller bank that now accounts for about
2 percent of banking system assets (but still has the largest network of branches), was
launched at the same time as for BCR, with the Government advised by reputable
investment banks as supported by the Bank under the PAL1. In 2006, however, the



                                              13

Government decided not to accept the only offer for the sale of CEC because it
considered the offered price low. Privatization of CEC was stopped and the Government
has subsequently worked to restructure the bank.

H. Energy Sector

        The objective of establishing a modern electric power sector consistent with
EU market liberalization principles has been largely achieved. Under the PAL1, the
Government adopted a comprehensive energy strategy (the Road Map). Implementation
was launched during the PAL1 and continued afterwards. Some of the key results are:
(1) Romania progressively liberalized the power sector in accordance with the Road Map,
reaching full liberalization (100 percent) in July 2007; (2) the OPCOM Power Exchange
was developed and successfully launched in July 2005 with a day-ahead market (DAM).
Complementing the DAM, a platform for centralized auction of bilateral contracts was
launched in December 2005. Trading at the OPCOM Power Exchange is approaching
30 percent of Romania's electricity supply and OPCOM is developing capability to offer
its services to other countries in Southeast Europe; (3) the thermal power generator
Termoelectrica was restructured in 2003 and the process to privatize some of its key
elements (Craiova, Rovinari and Turceni) was launched. (The privatization process
slowed in 2006 and was stopped in 2007); (4) the program for privatization of electricity
distribution was included in the Road Map. The first two of eight distribution companies
were sold in 2005 and three more in 2006 (the closing of one of the three transactions
slipped to 2008). Privatization of the remaining three was stopped in 2007.

The objective of establishing a modern natural gas sector consistent with EU market
liberalization principles has been largely achieved. The comprehensive energy
strategy (the Road Map) guided reform implementation. Under the PAL1, the
Government announced a schedule to increase well-head natural gas prices to economic
levels. The Government has adhered to this schedule during the PAL1 and to the updated
schedules afterwards. The Road Map for the gas sector has been adhered to (both during
and after the PAL1), including meeting the EU's 2007 market liberalization requirements
and making periodic retail tariff adjustments to better reflect the cost of supply.
Romania's fully unbundled gas transmission system operator Transgaz is a member of an
international consortium for the proposed Nabucco gas pipeline project. (Nabucco is one
of the EU's flagship energy projects for diversification of Europe's gas supplies, and
consists of a pipeline from Turkey to Austria to bring gas from the Caspian and the
Middle East to Europe.) Romania has merged its electricity and gas regulators into a
single regulator (ANRE).

The objective of restructuring the district heating sector will not be achieved before
2015 at the earliest. The preparation and publication of a District Heating Strategy was
accomplished under the PAL1, providing the foundations for the legislation for
mandatory heat metering and heat control and a major investment program for the
rehabilitation of the sector. Such measures have been implemented and the investment
program has been put into implementation, with the original objective to complete it in
2009. Implementation is however taking much more time and the Government has



                                              14

recently extended the program up to 2015. The PAL1 provided a strong strategic
foundation but the city-by-city implementation will require several more years. This
program is one of the major challenges in Romania's energy sector. The merger of the
district heating regulator into ANRE (which covers bulk heat supply from combined heat
and power stations) was considered but not adopted - decision-making on retail heat
tariffs remains with the municipalities.

I. Mining and Infrastructure Reform

         The objective of reducing the burden of mining sector on budget is partly
achieved, but it has to be reviewed in light of a newly-prepared plan for
restructuring the coal sector approved by the European Commission in 2007. Under
the 2004 Government strategy for restructuring the mining sector in 2004-2010, the
Government closed 235 mining units, cut the number of total employees in the lignite and
hard coal sector to 28,500 in 2006 from 45,700 in 2002, while coal output was little
changed at 33.4 million tons, resulting in substantial improvements in productivity. State
aid to the mining industry did not decline measurably, however, as deeper restructuring
was needed. On October 10, 2007, the European Commission confirmed that it did not
raise objections to the restructuring plan for the Romanian coal industry for the period of
2007-2010. The Romanian Government intends to spend 411 million in state aid over
the four years, with the intention of gradually reducing subsidies to the coal sector over
the period.

        The objective of improving the financial performance of Tarom was achieved.
The Ministry of Transport engaged an international advisor to prepare a business and
restructuring plan for Tarom, the national airline. The plan, implemented during 2004-
2007, included substantial restructuring of Tarom's network, including cancellation of
unprofitable flights (to New York and Beijing), financial restructuring and the installation
of a new revenue accounting system. As a result of the plan, the audited net profit of
Tarom increased 2.2 million RON in 2004 to 31.6 million RON in 2006. The 2006
outcome was substantially larger than the 2006 target of 7.6 million RON.

         The objective of restructuring the railways to be economically viable was not
supported by policy actions under the PAL1 and is not assessed in this ICR.

         The objective of modernizing the administration and management of
highways and roads was not supported by actions under the PAL1 and is not
assessed in this ICR.

J. Business Environment

         The objective of strengthening corporate governance of enterprise sector has
been achieved. A corporate governance assessment (ROSC) based on the OECD
principles was completed and published, and Parliament adopted a revised company law
in 2006, as required to implement the ROSC. These actions helped bring the legal
framework for corporate governance in line with international standards.



                                              15

        The objective of simplifying administrative and regulatory procedures to
increase transparency and reduce transaction costs for business entry and operation
has been achieved. Romania's administrative and regulatory regulations for business
entry have improved substantially and have been brought closer to the leading EU
member states (Romania is trailed by Italy, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Poland in
the Doing Business report.) Romania ranked 48 according to the ease of doing business
in 2007 (Doing Business 2008 report), a substantial upgrade from 78th place in 2005.
Doing Business estimates that it takes 14 days to start a business (down from 27 days in
2003) at a cost of 4.7 percent of income per capita (down from 11.7 percent in 2003).
Romania is ranked 26th according to the ease of staring a business out of 178 countries
(no similar ranking exists for 2003). Inflows of foreign direct investment rose from
2.2 percent in 2003 to 9.6 percent in 2006 (reflecting one-off privatization receipts)
before easing to 6.5 percent in 2007. Most of the inflows in 2007 reflect greenfield
investment with privatization largely completed.

        The objective of improving the bankruptcy process was only partially
achieved. The positive achievements reflected the approval by Parliament of
amendments to the Bankruptcy Law as supported under the PAL1, simplifying
bankruptcy procedures. The overall time to close a business was reduced to 3.3 years in
2007 (according to the 2008 Doing Business report) from 4.6 years in 2005. The average
duration of a bankruptcy trial, meanwhile, rose to 17.9 months in 2005 from 16 months in
2003, but is likely to have reflected the surge in bankruptcy cases in the courts and the
inadequate capacity to handle this surge. The number of bankruptcy cases rose to 22,189
in 2005 from 15,223 in 2003.

        The objective of improving the transparency in the functioning of firms has
been only partially achieved. A country action plan was prepared on the basis of the
ROSC on accounting and auditing and the Government began implementing its
recommendations. An ongoing update of the ROSC is determining that many of the
recommendations have still not been implemented, however. Financial reporting and
auditing requirements have been harmonized with the acquis communautaire prior to EU
accession and companies and auditors comply with these requirements.

K. Labor Markets

The objective of enhancing the flexibility of the labor market to facilitate labor
mobility, enterprise privatization and restructuring, and sectoral reforms has been
partially achieved. Amendments to the Labor Code as agreed with the Bank were
enacted (during the PAL2 preparation). Romania's accession into the European Union
and the robust economic growth enjoyed by the country in the last six years have
triggered large increases in employment and labor participation, to the point of increasing
shortages of labor. The labor market flexibility has improved, but still remains rather
rigid, as evidenced by the Doing Business report. Moreover, improving labor market
flexibility alone cannot be expected to deliver measurable results on all the outcome
indicators included in the PAL matrix, however. Substantial improvements in education,



                                             16

training and other reforms are also needed and these were not supported by the PAL.
Male (female) participation rates rose to 64.6 (53) percent in 2006 from 63.4 (52.1)
percent in 2004 and 63.6 (51.8) percent in 2002, but are still short of the 70 percent
Lisbon target. The unemployment rate fell from 8.4 percent in 2002 to 7.3 percent in
2006 and 6.4 percent in 2007. The unemployment rate for young females fell from
22 percent in 2002 to 20 percent in 2007, but the unemployment rate for young males
remained unchanged at about 22 percent.

L. Capital Markets and Nonbanking Financial Institutions

        The Government program of reform of capital markets and nonbank financial
institutions has been advanced, and the objectives of the PAL1 in this area are assessed as
achieved, as described below. As a result, a more efficient and more diversified
securities markets and nonbank financial institutions have been established

        The objective of developing a comprehensive legal, regulatory and
supervisory framework for securities markets/investment funds has been achieved.
In 2004, Parliament adopted a consolidated law on capital markets, including regulatory
framework for closed-end funds (including SIFs). The secondary legislation (supported
under the PAL2) was adopted in 2005 and has been implemented well. A
Functional/Capacity Assessment Review (FCAR) was carried out with support from the
Dutch Trust Funds and the output was satisfactory to the Bank. The Securities and
Exchange Commission carried out an IOSCO self-assessment before acceding to the EU,
but that assessment has not been shared with the Bank (supported by the PAL2). There is
no information to allow an assessment of the degree to which the self-assessment
complies with IOSCO standards on the regulation and supervision. The average score of
the peer reviews conducted by the European Commission (EC) improved by 0.778 from
July 2004 through July 2005, triple the desired outcome of 0.25.

        The objective of developing the insurance market has been achieved,
although data on the medium-term outcome is not available. A Capacity Assessment
Review was carried out in 2004, helping inform the Government strategy in improving
insurance market supervision (supported under the PAL1). The secondary legislation on
insurance companies was adopted in 2005. Full disclosure of the ultimate economic
beneficiaries of insurance companies is enforced (this and the previous action were
supported under the PAL2). Peer reviews by the EC were conducted during 2002-2006
and confirmed progress in this area.

        The objective of developing the mortgage market has been achieved. The
primary and secondary regulations on mortgage bonds and mortgage-backed securities
were adopted in 2005 (as supported under the PAL2) and the desired outcome of
mortgage market regulations operational has been achieved.

        The objective of improving management of government debt, including local
government borrowing was largely achieved (and there was no conditionality
associated with this objective under the PAL1). A debt strategy has been developed



                                            17

and a Public Debt Laws and a satisfactory legal framework for local government
borrowing have been enacted. The debt management function has been strengthened and
a transition to the new public debt management system is ongoing. Reflecting the much-
improved regulatory and economic environment since the start of PAL preparation,
Romania's sovereign rating was raised to investment grade in 2005. This, together with
the anticipation and ultimately EU accession, reduced spreads on Romanian bonds
sharply, from about 200 basis points in 2003 to 43 basis points in 2006. (The turmoil in
international financial markets that started in mid-2007 has resulted in spreads widening
to nearly 100 basis points, however). That said, work remains to be done to support the
development of a long-term domestic yield curve and a domestic bond market, both that
of the central government and of the municipalities.

        The objective of developing the private pension market was achieved,
although it was not supported under the PAL1. The Government issued an ordinance
in June 2005 on the setting up, organization and functioning of the private pension
system supervisory commission. Parliament also adopted the primary legislation for
establishing the Private Pensions Supervision Commission. The Bank's Social Sector
Development Project supported the establishment and functioning of the Commission
through June 30, 2007. Since then, the Commission has been financed from revenues it
collects from the private pension funds. Through the end of 2007, the Commission has
accredited 17 funds for the second pillar and six funds for the third pillar. In May 2008,
the first contributions will be transferred to the private pension funds, making the private
pension market fully operational.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Satisfactory
The overall rating is satisfactory. This reflects the high relevance of the development
objectives and the achievement of the objectives with respect to all components. Four
years after the PAL1 closed the reforms it supported have not been reversed and in many
cases have been deepened further. The failure to negotiate the PAL2 and follow it with
the PAL3 is an issue given the concerns on the quality of policy implementation after the
PAL1 was completed, and given that the PAL program was had a backloaded focus of
implementation. This observation is moderated by two considerations. Firstly, all but
one of the core conditions of the PAL2 were completed during the PAL preparation and a
number of the PAL3 conditions were also completed subsequently. Secondly, the
country's need for official financing had decreased substantially as PAL2 was prepared,
given mounting private capital inflows, making a more compelling case for not adding to
government and external debt.



3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



                                               18

As discussed earlier, the reforms supported by the PAL, together with reforms supported
under the IMF standby arrangement and progress on EU integration, helped boost growth
in real GDP in the context of accelerating EU accession. In Romania, analytical work
(such as the 2004 and 2007 Poverty Assessments) has demonstrated a strong correlation
between economic growth and poverty reduction. As a result of the robust growth in real
GDP, which averaged 6 percent during 2000-2006, the poverty rate in Romania declined
from 35.9 percent in 2000 to 18.8 percent in 2004 and 13.6 percent in 2006. In 2005, the
latest data available, Romania's level of inequality was lower than that of Poland, Estonia,
Lithuania, Ireland and the United Kingdom, and comparable to the average level of
inequality of the EU on average and the EU15.

The PAL had no direct impact on gender inequities and imbalances and social
development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The PAL was instrumental in helping strengthen the legal framework for key institutions
in the areas of the judiciary, transparency, public finance management, as well as firming
institutions to make them more fit for operation after EU accession and helping sustain
reforms to improve governance. Key laws, amendments and bylaws adopted include
legislative amendments to enhance the power of the Supreme Council of Magistracy, the
Law on Declaration of Assets, the law and bylaws on capital market supervision, the
revised company law and secondary legislation for its implementation (originally planned
under the PAL3, but completed during the preparation of the PAL2), amendments to the
Labor Law and the Bankruptcy Law, the legislative framework for the organizational
reform and rationalization of hospitals, the legislation on mandatory heat metering and
heat control measures, and the secondary legislation on occupational pension fund
supervision. The PAL supported the government in establishing the Supreme Council of
Magistrate's permanently functional administrative structure (completed under the PAL2),
and the establishment of a management structure for public finance management.

Close coordination with the IMF and the EC helped leverage the Bank's support under
the PAL. The PAL1 was consistent with the IMF standby arrangement and in line with
the EC's support for Romania's EU integration.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
By helping achieve a key political goal, EU accession, and helping in the process unlock
larger funds from the EU and the private sector (including from privatization proceeds),
the PAL1 contributed to sharply reduce the financial and political incentives for
completion of the PAL2 and the PAL3. The government carried out most of the reforms
supported by the PAL2 and several of those envisaged under the PAL3, but the emphasis
on implementation weakened substantially.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops




                                             19

Not available.

                  4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

   Rating: Negligible to Low

For the PAL1, the risk to development outcomes is rated negligible to low for several
reasons. Firstly, nearly four years after the loan was disbursed, as of the writing of this
ICR, there have been no reversals to any of the institutional reforms. Secondly, most of
the reforms under the PAL1 have been followed up, both during the preparation of the
PAL2 or as part of other efforts in advancing structural reforms, making further risks
very low.

There was more limited progress on following up on the reforms supported by the PAL1,
as the PAL2 and the PAL3 were not completed. In terms of the reforms implemented
under the PAL2, there have been reversals in the pace of judicial reform, in particular on
the efforts to ensure hiring and promotion procedures for judges ensure transparency and
are based on merit.



                5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance at entry is rated satisfactory, and a QAG review conducted in 2005
rated the PAL1 as "best practice." The justification for the satisfactory rating is as
follows. The PAL series was a key part of the CAS and supported a complex, multi-
sector Government agenda in extensive cooperation with the EU, the IMF and other
donors. The PAL fully reflected Government priorities and was consistent with the
Bank's assessment of the key bottlenecks. The Government, albeit with some delay, took
ownership of the design and preparation of the PAL. Staff efforts to ensure a quality loan
were extensive. There was thorough analytical work on which the PAL was based.
Moreover, the PAL series was complemented by investment operations and technical
assistance, both those of the Bank and other donors.

The PAL benefited from work and monitoring carried under the Health Sector Reform
APL, the Rural Education Project and the Judicial Reform Project. Analytical work
included the Court Rationalization study helped strengthen the implementation and the
monitoring of reforms under the judicial component of the PAL. Work under the Mining
Sector Social Mitigation Project and the Jiu Valley Project gave further analysis of the
impact of the PAL policy reforms. The 2002 PEIR analyzed public expenditure
management, pension reform, resource allocation in the health sector and reforming the
budgetary processes in the judiciary. The Diagnostic Surveys of Corruption done in 2000



                                              20

and the report Understanding Public Sector Performance in Transition Countries,
completed in 2004, helped underpin the work on transparency and policy formulation.
Further work on Public Expenditure Management in 2005 and the CPAR in 2006 were
key for the preparation of the PAL2. The PAL program was supported by several
poverty and social impact assessment (PSIA) activities. A Poverty Assessment was
completed before PAL1 was approved and established a baseline for the poverty
measures. Technical assistance was provided under the $18 million PPIBL, and two
Dutch Trust Funds.

The country office staff played an important role in both the design of the program and
the coordination with the authorities. The PAL complied with all relevant environmental
and business policies. The environmental classification was U, which meant that OD8.60
applied and an assessment of environmental policies and practices was recommended
(although not required). The EU required environmental assistance systems that meet its
standards, providing substantial impetus to Government efforts to improve their systems.
The President's Report noted most of the major risks to the PAL.

In hindsight, and this is one of the reasons why Bank performance is not rated highly
satisfactory, perhaps the Bank should have insisted on a more streamlined and focused
program. Such a program would have also enabled more emphasis on implementation
during the PAL1 as well.

(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Satisfactory

There was no formal supervision of this operation. Follow-up dialogue was conducted in
the context of the PAL2. A simplified ICR was prepared in December 2005 as required
under the Bank rules at the time, during a time when the PAL2 was under preparation. A
final ICR mission took place in February 2008, examining comprehensively the achieved
conditionality and progress toward the medium-term results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

Borrower performance under PAL1 was satisfactory. All core and non-core conditions of
the PAL1 were achieved and nearly four years after disbursement none of them has been
reversed. The Government was actively involved in the identification and preparation of
the PAL series, demonstrating ownership and the ambition to achieve the development
objectives of the PAL. With a delay, and after concerns in late 2003 that there might be
slippage on several key program components, the Prime Minister took a direct role in
ensuring the line ministries adopt the PAL measures to which the Government had



                                             21

committed. The head of the Prime Minister's Chancellery took a very active role in
shaping the program design and agreeing the policy matrix, as well as promoting the PAL
within the Government and in working with the Bank team.

A new Government came to power in November 2004 and it adopted the PAL series as
its own. Subsequent progress often exceeded the goals set under the PAL series. The
Minister-delegate in charge with the implementation of the EU acquis took a similar role
under the PAL2 as did the Chancellor under the PAL1. As the operating environment
changed with EU membership and massive private capital inflows, however, the
Government did not respond to the Bank's invitation dated May 29, 2006 to negotiate the
PAL2. This, together with the lack of progress on one core condition, led the Bank to
suspend work on the PAL2 in January 2007.

Failure to fully implement the planned PAL2 and the PAL3 had unfortunate
consequences. While the adoption of laws, action plans, strengthening of the legal and
institutional framework were achieved as targeted under the PAL1, subsequent
implementation was less successful and remains a challenge.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

The division of responsibilities within the Government was appropriate and performance
of the individual ministries was broadly satisfactory. The Borrower established the PMU
within the Chancellery of the Prime Minister's Office, ensuring the highest level of
coordination. The PMU was very effective in terms of coordinating the reform progress
and keeping the line ministries aware of the next steps for meeting the objectives of the
PAL program. The PMU was also very effective in terms of monitoring and reporting to
the Prime Minister, the Chancellor and to the Bank. Shortly before preparation of the
PAL2 was terminated, the Government moved the PMU to the Ministry of Public
Finance.

The areas which were the most difficult to make substantive progress during PAL1 were
decentralization and public administration reform. There were issues of technical
complexity and issues of political will here. Decentralization required the cooperation
between the Ministry of Public Finance and the Ministry of Public administration and the
PAL team worked very closely with both ministries to help advance the reforms.
Complexity and political sensitivity also presented challenges in civil service reform. In
this area, the substantial package of EU technical assistance helped ensure sustained
progress.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
Given the ratings of the two sub-components, the overall borrower performance is rated
satisfactory.




                                             22

                                     6. LESSONS LEARNED


Once the key political goal of EU accession was attained, political support for
reforms subsided. The goal of EU accession succeeded in unifying the major
mainstream political parties and boosted Government commitment to work toward the
goal together with the World Bank, the IMF and other donors. Once the EU confirmed
that Romania, together with Bulgaria, would accede to the EU in January 2007 and the
goal was met, political support for continuing with difficult reforms waned. A
contributing factor was the lack of financial need, as by that time Romania's investment
rating was substantially revised upward, helping bring larger inflows of foreign
investment. Inflows of foreign investment and EU grants were rising rapidly, thanks in
part to reforms supported by the PAL. The Government, which had accomplished all but
two of the core conditions of the PAL2 program, decided not to proceed with
negotiations.

The strong leadership by the Prime Minister's Chancellery was crucial for the
success of the PAL1, but with hindsight more attention could have also been paid to
strengthening capacity in the other parts of the Government. Such stronger capacity,
and a revamped public administration, could have helped sustain the momentum on
reforms even after the strategic goal of EU accession was met and after the new
government came to power.

As with other middle-income countries with access to capital markets or EU
resources, being flexible is important. This lesson will be of particular importance for
the World Bank's engagement with the countries of the western Balkans. For these
countries, as prospects of EU accession firm, EU funds will increase and private foreign
capital strengthen, building on rising investor confidence.

Flexibility was crucial for the success of the PAL1, with the Bank expending
substantial resources on preparing the operation and agreeing with the Government
design of a much larger policy matrix than was considered best practice at the time.
The Bank recognized that the strong leadership from the Prime Minister's Chancellery
that emerged was crucial for the success of the operation, and the country's leadership
wanted support for a very broad agenda. Developing such a broad agenda required large
resources, and the Bank financed PAL preparation to help ensure the successful outcome.
There were 12 board conditions (core conditions) for PAL1, 28 triggers for PAL2 and 16
triggers for PAL3.


7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


                                             23

  ANNEX 1 BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES



               Names                             Title                    Unit/Responsibility
Lending
Ronald D. Hood                  Lead Economist                     ECSPE, TTL PAL1
Gary J. Reid                    Lead Public Sector Management       ECSPE, Civil service reform,
                                Specialist                          policy formulation
James Anderson                  Senior Governance Specialist        ECSPE, Transparency rules
Catalin Pauna                   Senior Economist                    ECSPE, Macroeconomics, labor
                                                                    markets, local coordination
Jana Orac                       Consultant                         ECSPE, civil service
Keith W. McLean                 Senior Social Development           ECSSD, decentralization
                                Economist
Richard Florescu                Sr Operations Off.                  ECSHD, pensions, business
                                                                    environment, labor
Silviu Calin Radulescu           Sr Health Spec.                   ECSHD, health
Ana Maria Sandi                 Consultant                         ECSHD, education
Randi Susan Ryterman            Sector Manager                     PRMPS, civil service reform,
                                                                    public expenditure management
Johannes Stenbaek Madsen         Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS, financial management
Bogdan Constantin Constantinescu Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS, financial management
Antti P. Talvitie                Consultant                         CSFDR, railways
Kari J. Nyman                   Lead Specialist                    ECSSD, energy reform, TTL
                                                                    PAL2
Susan Louise Rutledge           Sr Private Sector Development Spec. ECSPF, financial sector
Michel Noel                      Lead Financial Specialist          ECSPF, financial sector
Irina L. Kichigina              Sr Counsel                          LEGEM, judicial reform
Sorin Teodoru                   Consultant                          ECSPF, financial sector
Dominique de Roquefeuil         Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.       Public expenditure management
Doina Visa                      Senior Operations Officer           ECSSD, energy
Michael T. Mertaugh              Consultant                         ECSHD, education
Arabela Sena Aprahamian         Sr Operations Off.                 ECSPF, privatization, business
                                                                    environment
Frederic Gielen                 Consultant                          ECSPS, financial management
Peter N. Dean                   Consultant                          EASPR
Philip S. Goldman               Lead Operations Officer            ECSHD, social sectors
Raluca Marina Banioti           Program Assistant                  ECCRO, program assistance
Henry G. R. Kerali              Lead Transport Specialist           ECSSD, infrastructure
Pervaiz Rashid                  Consultant                          ECSPS, design issues,
                                                                    conditionality
Carmen Elena Arhip              Operations Officer                  ECSSD, infrastructure
Dominic S. Haazen               Lead Health Policy Specialist       ECSHD, public expenditure
                                                                    management
Nancy Sabina Davies-Cole        Program Assistant                  ECSPE, program assistance


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage
                                           No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending


                                                24

 FY93                               0.66
 FY94                               0.00
 FY95                              18.88
 FY96                              90.22
 FY97                              89.53
 FY98                              54.95
 FY99                             275.73
 FY00                             341.80
 FY01                              81.02
                   Total:         952.79
Supervision/ICR
 FY93                               0.00
 FY94                               0.00
 FY95                               0.00
 FY96                               0.00
 FY97                               0.00
 FY98                               0.00
 FY99                               0.00
 FY00                               0.00
 FY01                               0.00
                   Total:           0.00




                            25


                                                         ANNEX 2. PAL POLICY MATRIX (PAL2 STAGE)



Objective                             PAL 1                               PAL 2                               PAL 3                               Desired Outcomes
                                                                                                                                        (by end 2007 unless stated otherwise)
I. CORE PUBLIC SECTOR
I.1 Judicial Reform
Strengthening of the   C Enactment of legislative         C Establishment of a permanently    C Implementation of the new           Reduction of time spent by court presidents
institutional          amendments to enhance the          functioning administrative          procedures of selection and           and judges on administrative and other routine
independence of the    powers of the Superior Council of  structure of the SCM, with          promotion of magistrates, including   matters by 30 percent.
judiciary              Magistracy (SCM).                  adequate staffing, budget and       introduction of LSAT in the testing
                                                          functions.                          methodology.                          Increased professional level of judges as
                                                                                                                                    monitored through number of judges
                                                          Introduction of modified procedures                                       undergoing continuing legal education,
                                                          for selection and appointment of    Full implementation of the random     performance evaluation and judicial
                                                          judges, including adoption of       assignment cases system (submission   performance indicators.
                                                          Regulations for qualification exams of an assessment report on the use of
                                                          and promotion tests for judges and  random case assignment in all courts  Reduce unreasonable court delays procedures
                                                          developing institutional capacity   and uniformity of the procedures).    and workload for judges.
                                                          within SCM and NIM to conduct
                                                          such exams/tests.                                                         Improved public image of judicial officials as
                                                                                                                                    evidenced by surveys, public polls, exit polls
Increasing             C Enactment of legislative         Development of a transparent and    Implementation of the system for      of court users.
accountability of the  amendments to eliminate the        objective system for monitoring     monitoring judicial performance (as
judiciary and          process of "extraordinary appeal"  judicial performance (reliable      developed under PAL 2), and
developing a judicial  by the Prosecutor General against  indicators for measuring caseloads  publication of an annual report on
performance evaluation court decisions entered into force per judge/court, time processing    performance of the judiciary in a
mechanism              (res judicata).                    standards, reverse through appeal   format agreed with the Bank.
                                                          rates, etc.).

                                                          Adoption of new merit-based
                                                          regulations by the SCM on the
                                                          criteria and the evaluation
                                                          procedures for magistrates'
                                                          professional activities.




                                                                                        27

Objective                                    PAL 1                                      PAL 2                                    PAL 3                                     Desired Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                 (by end 2007 unless stated otherwise)
Enhancing efficiency of      Launch of a study on a                    Completion of the study and                 C Implementation of the
the court system             rationalization of the court system. 1    adoption of a strategy on                   measures for rationalization of
through improving                                                      rationalization of the court system.        the court system in the strategy
organizational structure     Enactment of legislative provisions                                                   for judiciary reform.
of the court system and      for introducing economic managers         Adoption of the regulations defining
improving court              positions in courts.                      selection criteria and appointment          Implementation of the procedures
administration                                                         procedures for economic managers,           regarding the selection and
                                                                       their functions and responsibilities,       appointment of the economic
                                                                       satisfactory to the Bank, and               managers.
                                                                       employment of economic managers
                                                                       in tribunals, Appeal Courts and the
                                                                       High Court of Cassation and Justice.

Strengthening                                                          C Adoption of regulations               Implementation of the action plan on
budgetary autonomy of                                                  implementing the Law on Judicial        strengthening the capacity of SCM,
the judiciary                                                          Organization and the Law on the         MOJ and the courts for preparation
                                                                       SCM defining the specific               and implementation of the budgets (to
                                                                       responsibilities of the courts and      be adjusted depending on the decision
                                                                       SCM in the preparation and              whether the budgetary authority will
                                                                       implementation of court budgets.        be transferred to SCM).

                                                                       Development of an action plan to
                                                                       strengthen the capacity of SCM and
                                                                       the courts to prepare and implement
                                                                       budgets, and maintain financial
                                                                       management systems.




        1 The study will include: evaluation of the three-level appeal procedures; quantified analysis of existing ratios between caseloads and numbers of courts and magistrates in various
        territorial divisions and jurisdictional areas, evaluation of the need for specialized courts, and preparation of a strategy for rationalization of the court system


                                                                                                      28

Objective                              PAL 1                                    PAL 2                                PAL 3                               Desired Outcomes
                                                                                                                                               (by end 2007 unless stated otherwise)
Increasing                                                    Revision of the NIM curriculum for      Implementation of the action plan for
professionalism and                                           initial judicial training to put more   strengthening NIM and NSC's
integrity of judges                                           emphasis on teaching new judges         capacity.
                                                              professional techniques and methods
                                                              necessary for their judicial duties (as
                                                              opposed to academic and theoretical
                                                              training in law) and ethical and
                                                              professional standards.

                                                              Adoption of an action plan for
                                                              improving continued (in-service)
                                                              judicial training by NIM, and
                                                              introduction of a requirement for
                                                              regular training needs assessments
                                                              and updating of the NIM training
                                                              curriculum.

I.2 Civil Service

Develop a professional, Launch of program to develop          Establishment of baseline               Achievement of the PAL2-agreed        More meritocratic CS management:
stable, transparent,    ANFP capacity to monitor and          measurements for core set of            percentage of core civil service      ·    Number and fraction of civil servants
unbiased and efficient  publicize agreed quarterly and        monitoring indicators on civil service  management monitoring indicators           for whom formal annual performance
civil service.          annual monitoring indicators on CS    management practices and                                                           evaluations were completed during
                        management practices, consistent      agreement reached with the Bank on                                                 previous year approaches 100% over
                        with an action plan acceptable to the the percentage of those indicators                                                 time.
                        World Bank.                           that must show improvement by                                                 ·    Number and fraction of debutante CS
                                                              PAL3.                                                                              performance evaluations receiving each
                                                                                                                                                 possible rating.
                                                              C Adoption of amendments to the                                               ·    Number and fraction of non-debutante
                                                              Civil Service Law, satisfactory to                                                 CS performance evaluations receiving
                                                              the Bank.                                                                          each possible rating: concentration in
                                                                                                                                                 highest ratings declines over time.
                                                                                                                                            ·    Increased quality of civil servants




                                                                                               29

Enhance pay and         Launch of a comprehensive review                                     C Adoption and launch of              ·    Number and fraction of all Central
employment             of pay, grading and employment                                        implementation of a phased pay and         Administration CS with a university
management             management within the central                                         employment management reforms              degree: % rises modestly over time.
effectiveness and      administration.                                                       for the civil service and the broader ·    Number and fraction of all
increase transparency.                                                                       public administration.                     deconcentrated CS with a university
                                                                                                                                        degree: % rises modestly over time.
                                                                                             Law on CS Salary Setting acceptable   ·    Number and fraction of all Local CS
                                                                                             to the Bank forwarded to Parliament.       with a university degree: % rises
                                                                                                                                        modestly over time

                                                                                                                                   Enhanced attractiveness of CS career
                                                                                                                                   ·    CS vertical compression ratio rises over
                                                                                                                                        time
                                                                                                                                   ·    CS wage bill affordability
                                                                                                                                   ·    CS employment: total and per capita
                                                                                                                                        remains consistent with Government's
                                                                                                                                        macro/fiscal commitments with the IMF
                                                                                                                                   ·    CS wage bill: total and per GDP
                                                                                                                                        remains consistent with Government's
                                                                                                                                        macro/fiscal commitments with the IMF




I.3 Policy Formulation

To improve the                                           Establishment of baseline           Achievement of the PAL2-agreed        More stable legal framework.
predictability and                                       measurements for a core set of      percentage of core policy formulation
effectiveness of                                         monitoring indicators on policy     and coordination monitoring           Greater decisional transparency.
government policies                                      formulation and coordination        indicators which improve relative to
                                                         practices and agreement reached     baseline measurements.
                                                         with the Bank on the percentage of
                                                         those indicators that must show     C. Implementation of plan for
                                                         improvement by PAL3.                improvement of budgetary strategic
                                                                                             planning and policy formulation
                                                         C Adoption of new procedures and    encompassing: (i) the new Strategic
                                                         permanent Cabinet sub-committee     Planning Committee; (ii) the
                                                         structure for policymaking,         General Secretariat of the
                                                         acceptable to the Bank.             Government (GSG) and the
                                                                                             Chancellery; (iii) enhancement of
                                                                                             line ministry budgeting capacities in
                                                                                             strategic planning and policy
                                                                                             formulation and quality of the
                                                                                             MTEF; (iv) improvements in the
                                                                                      30

                                                                                                          budget framework letter and
                                                                                                          guidelines, and earlier start of the
                                                                                                          budget cycle; and (v)
                                                                                                          implementation of the Strategic
                                                                                                          Development Plan for Public
                                                                                                          Financial Management developed
                                                                                                          under PAL 2.

I.4 Transparency rules
Bring transparency and     C Amendments to the Law on                Comprehensive review of progress     Publication of an updated index         Greater confidence on the part of the public
accountability to public   Declaration of Assets, acceptable         on anticorruption under the National enumerating the actual declarations as  that the Government's attention to
life.                      to the Bank.                              Anticorruption Strategy and Action   called for in the Law on Declaration of transparency and reducing corruption is
                                                                     Plan of 2001.                        Assets, and the Conflict of Interest    genuine, as measured by public opinion polls
                           .                                                                              Law.                                    and surveys including the Business
                                                                     C. Approval by Government of an                                              Environment and Enterprise Performance
                                                                     updated Anticorruption Strategy      Publication of a Government report      Survey (BEEPS) III 2005.
                                                                     and Action Plan.                     summarizing compliance at the level
                                                                                                          of the central government with the Bill Greater transparency through the publication
                                                                     C. Amendments to legislation and     on Decisional Transparency              of the index of declarations and similar data
                                                                     regulation on assets declarations                                            for conflicts of interest.
                                                                     and conflicts of interest,
                                                                     satisfactory to the Bank.


I.5 Public Expenditure Management
Reinforce strategic        C Establishment of PFM reform             Complete Strategic Development       Produce updated Strategic               A coherent, coordinated and effective steering
management of              management structure. 2                   Plan (SDP) for Public Financial      Development Plan for Public             of the governance and PFM reform, ensuring a
Governance and Public                                                Management 3                         Financial Management 3                  successful and documented outcome of reform
Financial Management                                                                                                                              efforts.
(PFM) Reform                                                                                                                                      Practices reflecting new governance model,
                                                                                                                                                  emphasizing management responsibility as
                                                                                                                                                  opposed to central, third party control.
                                                                                                                                                  Strong internal audit capabilities to support
                                                                                                                                                  and promote governance and PFM reform.




        2Appoint Head of PFM Reform and establish Cross Ministerial Committee chaired by Head.

        3SDP should contain an exhaustive inventory of strategic PFM development recommendations and technical assistance activities (e.g. as provided from EU, IMF and World Bank)
        and be in line with the recent CFAA recommendations. It must comprise a comprehensive evaluation of progress in key areas of reform: program budgeting, accruals accounting,
        internal audit and external audit training and staff retention statistics for key staff.


                                                                                                 31

Implement new           C Establishment of the basis for     Adoption and publication in Official   Substantial progress since PAL I on       Improved education quality as evidenced by
financing, budget, and  more effective and efficient         Gazette of secondary legislation for   strengthening the effective and           (a) assessments and examinations results; (b)
resource allocation     resource utilization in the human    implementation of the Education        efficient utilization of resources in the improved cost-effectiveness in education; and
reforms to improve      development sectors evidenced        Law and Teachers Statute acceptable    human development sectors,                (c) reduction in drop-outs of students in lower
performance, strengthen by:                                  to the Bank                            evidenced by satisfactory:                secondary education.
management and build    Adoption of amendments to the        Demonstrated progress on               C. testing of the per-capita financing    Balanced budget in the health insurance fund,
accountability for      Education Law and the Teachers       strengthening the effective and        formula for education in selected pilot   and elimination arrears in the sector.
results in the social   Status Law as agreed with the        efficient utilization of resources in  schools                                   Achievement of better balance in allocation of
sectors                 Bank, enabling piloting of the       the human development sectors,         approval of revised arrangements for      health sector expenditure by reaching a ratio
                        differentiated, nationwide per-      monitored by substantial progress      health insurance revenue generation       of public expenditure on acute hospital
                        capita financing formula for pre-    against:                               and changes in accountability             services to expenditure on outpatient care
                        university education (Annex A.1)     application of per-capita education    mechanisms of National Health             (target to be determined in PAL 2on basis of
                                                             financing formula on a pilot basis     Insurance House                           results of PPIBL-supported health sector
                                                             and evaluation of results              C implementation of the second set of     financing study) and ratio multi-day to same-
                                                             .                                      measures identified by the pension        day hospital patient treatment (target to be
                                                                                                    action plan, covering Pillar I (public),  determined in PAL 2).
                                                                                                    Pillar II (mandatory private) and Pillar
                                                                                                    III (voluntary private), and including a
                                                                                                    satisfactory financing plan for the
                                                                                                    transition from Pillar I to Pillar II.


                        Government approval of National      implementation of the plan to          Submission of a sector expenditure        Improved incentives of payment system and
                        Hospital Rationalization Strategy    improve performance of health          proposal to the Government for the        increase efficiency of health care services
                        and establishment of high level      sector financing regarding             education and health sectors for 2006-    delivery by extending new payments system
                        Inter-ministerial Steering           predictability, risk protection of     2008, outlining an estimate of            to all acute care hospitals.
                        Committee for monitoring strategy    insured, equity and efficient          projected resource availability as a
                        implementation.                      management of public                   baseline, priority sector spending        Improved access to health services by the poor
                        Government approval and launch of    resources(Annex A.3)                   plans within that envelope, expected      and vulnerable groups (targets to be set during
                        an action plan, satisfactory to the  implementation of the first set of     outcomes, and an alternative scenario     PAL 2 on basis of TA on informal payments




                                                                                             32

                       Bank, to consolidate the public       measures identified by the pension     should the budget envelope increase.   under PPIBL).
                       pension fund by amending the          action plan.                           Satisfactory implementation of the
                       existing public pensions law (Annex                                          institutional realignment scheme in    Maintenance of a public pension fiscal deficit
                       A.2)                                  Submission of a sector expenditure     education.                             of less than approximately 1% of the GDP
                                                             proposal to the Government for the                                            including any deficit resulting from transition
                       Definition of the roles and           education and health sectors for       Establishment of processes and         to the second pillar.
                       responsibilities in the decentralized 2005-2007, outlining an estimate of    structures for systematic monitoring
                       management of education, agreed       projected resource availability as a   and information dissemination on all
                       with the Bank.                        baseline, priority sector spending     categories of expenditure on health,
                                                             plans within that envelope, expected   from public and private sources
                                                             outcomes, and an alternative           (formal and informal), at national and
                                                             scenario should the budget envelope    district level.
                                                             increase.
                                                                                                    Satisfactory progress on human
                                                             Satisfactory implementation of the     resource management reforms for the
                                                             institutional realignment scheme in    health, social and education sectors.
                                                             education.
                                                                                                    C Implementation of the health
                                                             Conduct of a study on health sector    reform legislation enacted under
                                                             financing, including all categories of PAL2
                                                             expenditure on health, from public
                                                             and private sources (formal and
                                                             informal) at national and district
                                                             level.

                                                             C Health sector reform package,
                                                             acceptable to the Bank, enacted by
                                                             the Parliament and arrears to
                                                             medicine suppliers cleared by the
                                                             Government.
Build Accountability   Implementation of actions for         Preparation and progress on            Satisfactory implementation of the     Decreased level of informal payments (targets
for Results Around     increasing transparency and           Government plan for reducing           2006 OECD Program for International    to be set during PAL 2 on the basis of TA on
Sector Decision-making reducing corruption in the health     corruption and increasing              Student Assessment (PISA) 2006         informal payments under PPIBL).
Structures in Social   sector (Annex A.4)                    transparency in the health sector      national examination.
Sectors                                                      (Annex A.5).                                                                  Availability of transparent information on
                                                                                                    Satisfactory progress against          sources and uses of funds for health, including
                                                                                                    benchmarks in Government anti-         informal payments through publication Nation
                                                                                                    corruption plan in health.             Health Accounts data prepared under the
                                                                                                                                           Health APL.
Develop                                                      C Legal and institutional              Launch of implementation of a          Strengthened intergovernmental framework
Decentralization                                             framework for decentralization         program of support to local            for decentralization, enabling legislation, and
Framework that                                               reviewed, agreed reform measures       authorities; to strengthen property    decentralization strategy.
clarifies functional                                         adopted and the Local Public           assessments and valuation, and
assignments and                                              Administration Law (215/2000),         enhance fiscal capacity; clarify and   Improved public debate, participatory
                                                                                           33

relationships between                                          Local Public Finance Law               resolve ownership public properties    processes, and intergovernmental dialogue for
the central government                                         (45/2003), Decentralization            among tiers of government, and reflect reforms of local administration.
and each tier/type of                                          Framework Law (339/2004), the          in relevant legislation.
local administration.                                          Civil Service Law and the Law on                                              Clarity in functional assignments and
                                                               Prefect amended.                                                              jurisdiction among all levels of government,
                                                                                                                                             in particular for local government tiers.

II The Public Private Interface and Regulated Markets
II.1 Privatization, Restructuring and Establishment of Efficient Markets
Dispose of the            C Offered for sale                   Sold or put into liquidation at least                                         Completion of the privatization of the state
inventory of AVAS         8 companies from the list of         75 percent of the companies from the                                          manufacturing sector in Romania; the moving
firms (through            companies in the AVAS portfolio      June 1, 2004 portfolio and reduction                                          into the private sector of electricity and gas
privatization,            as of June 1, 2004, in which         of the number of employees in the                                             distribution and much of the electricity
restructuring or          AVAS has at least 50 percent         remaining companies to no more                                                generation; the government's exit from the
liquidation).             ownership and the companies          than 25 percent of the June 1, 2004                                           commercial banking sector with the
                          have at least 100 employees.         total.                                                                        privatization of the two remaining commercial
                          4 companies on the June 1, 2004                                                                                    state banks, BCR and CEC; and an increase in
                          portfolio in which AVAS has 50       Sold, or liquidator appointed for, all                                        the private sector's share of GDP to 75 percent.
                          percent ownership and the            enterprises that have reverted to the
                          companies have less than 100         AVAS portfolio within 6 months of
                          employees.                           their return to AVAS portfolio
                          on the Bucharest stock exchange,     starting from September 1, 2004, or
                          all the AVAS shares in 15            by March 1, 2005 for those that had
                          companies from those companies       returned prior September 1, 2004.
                          on the June 1, 2004 portfolio in
                          which AVAS has a less than 50%
                          interest.

Exit of the State from    C Steps, satisfactory to the Bank,   C Using reputable investment
ownership of              undertaken by the government to      banks, hired through
commercial banks by       hire an investment bank financial    international, competitive tenders,
completing the            advisor, in an open competitive      to privatize the CEC and the BCR
privatization of BCR      tender, for the privatization of the banks by selling at least 51 percent
and CEC banks.            CEC. The government has              of each of their shares, the GOR
                          announced this publicly, has         will review with the Bank the
                          sought expressions of interest,      privatization strategies prepared
                          formed a short list and sent an      for the two banks by the
                          RFP to the consultants on the        privatization advisors and will
                          short list asking them to bid on     adopt privatization strategies
                          the assignment.                      acceptable to the Bank. The
                                                               Government has offered BCR and
                                                               CEC for sale in open,
                                                               international, competitive tenders
                                                               for strategic buyers.
                                                                                              34

II.2 Energy Sector
Establish a modern           Satisfactory implementation of the   Satisfactory implementation of the    Market liberalization meets EU's 2007
power sector consistent      road map (power sector) in PAL1-2    road map in PAL2-3 period.            requirements.
with EU market               period.
liberalization principles                                         C Review with the Bank of the         Substantial private investment secured for the
and capable of meeting       C Review with the Bank of            privatization strategies prepared     power sector.
consumer demand              privatization strategies prepared    for the last three electricity
                             for the next three electricity       distribution companies (still in      Efficient and competitive power sector capable
                             distribution companies to be         public ownership) by the              of meeting consumer demand.
                             privatized (Oltenia, Moldova and     privatization advisors and adoption
                             Muntenia Sud) by the                 of privatization strategies           Social protection to ensure access to electricity
                             privatization advisors and           acceptable to the Bank. The GOR       supply to low-income households.
                             adoption of privatization strategies has offered these companies for sale
                             acceptable to the Bank. The          (or other form of private
                             Government has privatized four       participation), in accordance with
                             electricity distribution companies   the agreed privatization strategies.
                             (Banat, Dobrogea, Moldova and
                             Oltenia), the two gas distribution
                             companies (Distrigaz Nord and        C Assessment with the help of
                             Distrigaz Sud) and offered one       international consultants and
                             more distribution company            adoption, in consultation with the
                             (Muntenia Sud) for sale.             Bank, privatization options for
                                                                  Hidroelectrica, including its sale as
                             Procurement of the services of       a whole or in parts.
                             reputable international investment
                             bank(s) to privatize the last three
                             electricity distribution companies   C. The Government has offered
                             still in public ownership.           Rovinari and Turceni energy
                                                                  complexes for sale (or other form of
                             C Review with the Bank of the        private participation), in
                             privatization strategies prepared    accordance with the agreed
                             for the energy complex Turceni by    privatization strategies.
                             the privatization adviser and
                             adoption of a privatization
                             strategy acceptable to the Bank.     Continuation of social protection
                             The Government has launched the      measures for low-income households.
                             privatization process for Turceni
                             energy complex.                      Review of Road Map for period
                                                                  beyond PAL3.
                             C. Establishment of a new
                             wholesale electricity trading
                             regime.

                             Effective implementation of new
                                                            35

                                                             transparent electricity distribution
                                                             and retail level tariffs. Adoption of
                                                             social protection measures to
                                                             compensate low-income households.

                                                             Road map (power sector) review
                                                             for PAL2-3 period and beyond.

Establish a modern       C Announcement and making           Satisfactory implementation of the       Satisfactory implementation of the        Market liberalization meets EU's 2007
natural gas sector       public a schedule, acceptable to    road map (gas sector) in PAL1-2          road map (gas sector) in PAL2-3           requirements.
consistent with EU       the Bank, to increase well-head     period including (1) market              period including (1) market               Private investment secured for gas distribution
market liberalization    natural gas prices to economic      liberalization and (2) the retail tariff liberalization, and (2) the retail tariff and production.
principles               levels, and implementation of       adjustments to better reflect cost of    adjustments to better reflect cost of     Efficient and competitive gas sector capable of
                         adjustments in wellhead prices      supply. Implementation of social         supply. Continuation of social            meeting consumer demand.
                         and retail prices in line with the  protection measures for low-income       protection measures for low-income
                         announced schedule.                 households.                              households.                               Social protection to ensure supply to low-
                                                                                                                                                income households.
                                                             C Further increases in natural gas       Further increases in natural gas
                                                             wellhead price and retail prices         wellhead price and retails prices
                                                             towards economic levels in line with     towards economic levels in line with
                                                             the announced schedule.                  the announced schedule.

                                                             Procurement of the services of a         C Review with the Bank of the
                                                             reputable international investment       privatization strategy prepared for
                                                             bank, through an international           Romgaz by the privatization advisor
                                                             tender, to privatize Romgaz, inter       and adoption of a privatization
                                                             alia, as a whole or in parts, based on   strategy acceptable to the Bank. The
                                                             the conclusions of the privatization     Government has offered Romgaz for
                                                             options study.                           sale (or other form of private
                                                                                                      participation), in accordance with the
                                                             Review of the Road map (gas sector)      agreed privatization strategy.
                                                             for PAL2-3 period and beyond.
                                                                                                      Road map (gas sector) review for
                                                                                                      period beyond PAL3

Restructure the district C Approval and publication of a     Enactment of legislation for             Implementation of heat metering and       Improved heating services including giving
heating sector.          District Heating Strategy and its   mandatory heat metering and heating      heating control measures in               consumers the ability and incentives to control
                         phased implementation program       control measures in accordance with      accordance with the implementation        their heating and heat consumption.
                                                             the District Heating Strategy.           program.

                                                             Implementation of district heating       Implementation of district heating
                                                             tariff improvements in accordance        tariff improvements in accordance
                                                             with the implementation program of       with the implementation program.          Reduced producer subsidies and improved
                                                             the Strategy.                                                                      consumer subsidies targeting low-income

                                                                                             36

                                                                                                                                         households.
II.3 Mining and Infrastructure Reform
Reduce burden of        Approval and publication of a         Adherence to the mining              Adherence to the mining restructuring Elimination by 2007 of state aid for mining of
mining sector on budget strategy for restructuring the mining restructuring plan.                  plan.                                 lignite and non-metallic ores in line with the
                        sector in 2004-2010, in line with                                                                                mining sector strategy through targeted equal
                        EU guidelines for environmental                                                                                  reductions equivalent to 25 percent of the 2003
                        protection. The strategy will set out                                                                            state aid levels. This will be accomplished by
                        detailed schedules for the mines to                                                                              privatisation some of these mining units,
                        be privatized or closed, necessary                                                                               closure of non-viable units and reductions in
                        employment reduction for each                                                                                    the number of mining sector employees.
                        mine, as well as programs to
                        address the social problems of the                                                                               State aid in hard coal will be reduced annually
                        regions affected. The objective of                                                                               by an amount equivalent to 14.3 percent of the
                        this strategy would be to eliminate                                                                              2003 state aid.
                        the losses from operations and
                        subsidies by end-2007 for the
                        lignite and metallic mines and by
                        end-2010 for the hard coal mines.
Improve financial       C Engagement by the Ministry of       Satisfactory implementation of the                                         Elimination of operating losses and
performance of Tarom    Transport of an international         business and financial restructuring                                       maintenance of positive operating profit in line
                        advisor to prepare a business and     plan for Tarom.                                                            with the business and financial restructuring
                        financial restructuring plan for                                                                                 plan.
                        Tarom and adoption by the
                        Government of a business and
                        financial restructuring plan
                        acceptable to the Bank
Restructure the                                                                                    C Removal of non-core network         By end-2004, reduction of the railway labor
Railways to be                                                                                     segments from CFR assets and          force by 25 percent compared to the level at
economically viable.                                                                               responsibility.                       end-2001

                                                                                                                                         By end-2006, achievement a Working Ratio of
                                                                                                                                         115 percent for CFR Infrastructura; 88 percent
                                                                                                                                         for CFR Marfa; and 100 percent for CFR
                                                                                                                                         Calatori; debt service ratio of 1.5 for CFR
                                                                                                                                         Marfa; and elimination of arrears in social
                                                                                                                                         taxes to the State.

Modernize                                                                                          C Approval of a revised schedule of   Road user charges cover 70 percent of all road
Administration and                                                                                 road user charges to cover 70% of     maintenance costs excluding investments.
Management of                                                                                      all road costs (excluding
Highways and Roads                                                                                 investments); and approval of a
                                                                                                   method for budget allocation
                                                                                                   between road
                                                                                                   owners/administrations.
                                                                                            37

II.4 Business Environment
Strengthen corporate    Launch of a corporate governance  Finalization of corporate governance  C Enactment of revised company          The legal framework for corporate governance
governance of           assessment (ROSC) regarding       ROSC and approval of its              law, complying with OECD                in compliance with international standards.
enterprise sector.      OECD corporate governance         publication.                          corporate governance principles in
                        principles.                                                             addition to EU directives.
                                                          Drafting of legislation for revising
                                                          company law, as applicable, as        Adoption of secondary legislation for
                                                          required implementing ROSC            the enforcement of the revised
                                                          recommendations in accordance with    company law and securities secondary
                                                          OECD corporate governance             legislation, as applicable.
                                                          standards. Submission of legislation
                                                          to Parliament.

                                                          Creation of a working group to
                                                          prepare a satisfactory plan for
                                                          implementation of ROSC
                                                          recommendations and to carry out its
                                                          implementation, as applicable.

                                                          Submission of revised company law
                                                          to Parliament
Simplify administrative                                   Satisfactory progress on              Satisfactory progress on                By 2007, administrative and regulatory
and regulatory                                            implementation and enforcement of     implementation and enforcement of       requirements for entry of new businesses and
procedures to increase                                    the updated Business Environment      the updated Business Environment        operations will be in line with those in EU
transparency and reduce                                   Action Plan                           Action Plan                             countries.
transaction costs for
business entry and                                        Completion of a pilot, testing the    Roll out the implementation of the      Reduced time and money costs for opening a
operation.                                                implementation Silent Approval Law    Silent Approval Law.                    new business.
                                                          Procedures for four major permits.
                                                                                                                                        Significant increases in FDI and increased
                                                          Approval of the secondary                                                     portion in the form of Greenfield investment
                                                          legislation to the Silent Approval
                                                          Law.
Improve Bankruptcy      C Approval by Parliament of                                              Further refinement of the operation of By end of 2005, the number of pending
Process                 amendments to the Bankruptcy                                             the bankruptcy processes, and          bankruptcy trials in courts, as well as the
                        Law                                                                      implementation of remaining agenda     average duration of such trials and post-trial
                                                                                                 in line with the findings of the       procedures will be significantly diminished.
                                                                                                 insolvency and creditor risk ROSC.

Improve the             Establishment of a working        Endorsement by the government of      Implementation of the second phase of   Financial reporting and auditing requirements
transparency in the     committee within the Consultative the CAP and implementation of the     the country action plan endorsed by     comply with those of the acquis
functioning of firms    College on Accounting (CCC). The  first phase of the CAP.               the Government.                         communautaire
                        CCC has begun preparation of a
                                                                                         38

                           detailed country action plan (CAP)                                                                                      In practice, Romanian enterprises and auditors
                           on the basis of the policy                                                                                              comply with reporting and auditing
                           recommendations within the ROSC                                                                                         requirements, respectively.
                           ­ Accounting and Auditing report
                           for presentation to the Prime
                           Minister and endorsement by the
                           Government.
II.5 Labor Markets
Enhance the flexibility    Establishment of a multi-partite        C Enactment of the amendments          Satisfactory progress in the             Marked and sustainable improvements in the
of the labor market to     Consultative Committee to assess        to the Labor Code as agreed with       implementation of the measures of the    following labor market indicators: labor
facilitate labor mobility, the impact of the Labor Code on the     the Bank                               labor flexibility strategy agreed with   participation rate, employment to population
enterprise privatization   labor market and appointment of an                                             the Bank.                                rate, the share of long term (over 12 months)
and restructuring, and     international advisor to review the     Agreement with the Bank on a                                                    unemployed to total unemployed, the youth
sectoral reforms           Labor Code                              strategy to improve labor market                                                unemployment rate to total unemployed,
                                                                   flexibility and reduce structural                                               employment in services as a share of the labor
                                                                   rigidities.                                                                     force.
II.6 Capital Markets/Non-Banking Financial Institutions
Develop a                   C Adoption by Parliament of a            C Adoption of secondary                                                       Improvements of 0.25 per year in average
comprehensive legal,        consolidated law on capital              legislation for consolidated law on                                           Peer Review scores for National Securities
regulatory and              markets including regulatory             capital markets4                                                              Commission starting in 2004.
supervisory framework       framework for closed investment
for securities              funds including SIFs.                    Beginning implementation by the
markets/investment                                                   Securities Exchange Commission
funds                       Agreement with Securities                (CNVM) of a comprehensive
                            Exchange Commission (CNVM)               capacity building program to meet
                            on TORs and funding of                   IOSCO standards of securities
                            Functional/Capacity Assessment           regulation.
                            Review (FCAR) for the
                            Commission.
Develop insurance           Agreement with the Bank on the         Adoption of secondary legislation on   .                                        Improvements of 0.25 per year in average
market                      scope, source of financing, the        insurance companies.                                                            Peer Review scores for Insurance starting in
                            terms of reference and the advisor                                                                                     2005
                            to carry out the preparation of a      Enforcement of full disclosure of
                            Capacity Assessment Review on          ultimate economic beneficiaries of
                            the capacity of the departments of     insurance companies
                            the Insurance Supervision
                            Commission to meet IAIS
                            standards of supervision



         4 The Secondary legislation will cover: minimum float for listed companies; disclosure of ultimate economic beneficiaries for listed companies; removal shareholding limits for
         SIFs; and disclosure of ultimate economic beneficiaries for mutual funds and closed investment funds including SIFs,


                                                                                                  39

Develop mortgage        Adoption of primary and secondary                                      Mortgage market regulations operational.
markets                 legislation (mortgage bonds;
                        mortgage backed securities)

Manage public debt                                         C Enactment of a Public Debt Law    Adoption and implementation of medium-
including local                                            including a satisfactory legal and  term government debt management strategy
government borrowing                                       regulatory framework for local      and strengthening of debt management
                                                           government borrowing.               function. Transparent access of local
                                                                                               governments and municipal corporations to
                                                           Adoption of a government debt       domestic debt market.
                                                           management and debt market
                                                           development strategy.

                                                           Note: These will be removed from
                                                           PAL3 if accomplished within the
                                                           PAL2 period.
Develop private         Adoption of secondary legislation
pension market          for occupational pension funds
                        supervision

                        Adoption of comprehensive capacity
                        building program for occupational
                        pension supervision




                                                    40

ANNEX 3. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

42

43

44

                        ANNEX 4. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


Internal World Bank Documents
Minutes of concept note review, PAL1
Minutes of ROC review, PAL1,
Development Credit Agreement, PAL1, September 27, 2004
Minutes of ROC review, PAL2
Draft program document, PAL2, May 26, 2006
Negotiations package, PAL2, May 29, 2006
Correspondence between the World Bank and the Government during PAL1 and PAL2
        preparation
Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment for 2004-2005, August 12, 2005
ISR, PPBIL, January 2008
World Bank Social Sector Development Project, Aide Memoire, October 2007
Romania Social Protection Sector, Pensions, Policy Note, ECSHD, June 2006

Publicly available World Bank Documents related to this Credit
Program document, PAL1, August 6, 2004
Project Information Document, appraisal stage, PAL2, November 17, 2005

Other World Bank Reports
Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, 2002 and 2006
Municipal Finance Note, 2007

Other Reports and Documents
IMF, article IV reports and staff reports
EC Monitoring Reports on Bulgaria and Romania
EC Interim Report to the European Parliament and the Council on Progress in Romania under the
Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, February 4, 2008
PAL PMU, Progress Reports on the Implementation of the Action Plan for Carrying On of the
Structural Reforms under the PAL, various dates
PAL PMU, PAL Monitoring Indicators
Romania, Ministry of Labor, Social Solidarity and Family, PAL2 Action plan, September 2004




                                              45

