Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7399-BIH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR15.3 MILLION (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
January 18, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Bosnia and Herzegovina: Social Sector Adjustment Credit
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 17, 2001)
Currency Unit: Konvertible Marka (KM); equivalent 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
KMI=US$0.48217
US$1=KM2.07394
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH             Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEE            Central and Eastern Europe
CSW            Centers for Social Work
EBPAC          Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDS            Economic Development Strategy
EU             European Union
Els            Employment Institutes
FBH            Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FIS            Federation Institute of Statistics
FRY            Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IDA            International Development Association
IES            Income and Expenditure Survey
ILO            Intemational Labor Organization
IMF            Intemational Monetary Fund
I-PRSP         Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
KM             Konvertible Marka
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
LFS            Labor Force Survey
LSMS           Living Standards Measurement Survey
MFTER          Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NGO            Non-Govemmental Organization
OHR            Office of the High Representative
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader: Philip O'Keefe



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PFs            Pension Funds
PFSAC          Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
PRRP           Priority Reconstruction and Recovery Program
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS             Republika Srpska
RSIS           Republika Srpska Institute of Statistics
SA             Social Assistance
SAA            Stabilization and Association Agreement
SBA            Stand-by Arrangement
SDRs           Special Drawing Rights
SFRY           Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia
SOTAC          Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
SPES           Social Protection Expenditure Strategy
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
USAID          United States Agency for Intemational Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Social Sector Adjustment Credit
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, with sub-credit
agreements with MOFs in each Entity.
Amount:                      SDR15.3 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard IDA
Commitment Fee:              N/A
Objectives:                  The overall objectives of reforms in the social protection and labor
market fields supported by the credit are to: (i) support development of
institutional and budgetary mechanisms for development and
prioritization of social protection policy and programs in BH;
(ii) improve the policy framework for generation of productive
employment opportunities; (iii) initiate improvements in the impact
and efficiency of the social safety net, in particular focusing programs
on the needs of the poorest; and (iv) strengthen the social statistics
base in order to ensure that social policy is formulated on a well-
informed basis.
While the proposed credit is an important element of raising the profile
of these issues in BH, it is only the first step in tackling a large reform
agenda. The credit conditionality targets those areas where there is
adequate progress and concreteness in the policy dialogue to date.
However, the Letter of Development Policy outlines both the short
term and medium term program of social protection reform. Further
Bank adjustment support would be dependent on adequate progress or,
the medium term reform agenda. The SOSAC is also supported by a
companion credit, the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit,
which was approved by the Bank's Board in December 2000.
Benefits:                    The main benefits of the proposed credit would be: (i) it would help
set the policy and institutional framework for significantly improved
social protection system in the medium term in BH. The current
fragmentation of policy making and institutional roles undermines
possibilities for coherence in the social protection sector. This would
be closely supported by the proposed companion technical assistance
credit, which would provide capacity building and institutional
strengthening for the relevant ministries and policy makers in the
sector; (ii) it would leverage significant reforms in the labor relations
framework, which would start the process of moving BH away from its
inherited socialist labor relations framework; (iii) it would support
initial steps in an overhaul of cash benefits, in particular social



v
assistance and disability benefits; and (iv) it would leverage progress
on development of representative survey data for living standards
monitoring.
Risks:                            The main risks associated with the proposed credit are: (i) a number of
the measures in the policy agenda are politically unpopular with
certain groups, and ongoing implementation will be challenging.
While it is not possible to mitigate this risk completely, the
requirement of Parliamentary passage for the key labor measures
ensures that binding steps have already been taken and are unlikely to
be reversed. The authorities have shown increased ownership of
reforms, as indicated by the policy agenda being a central element of
their first Economic Development Strategy, currently under
preparation; and (ii) on the social safety net parts of the policy agenda,
the SOSAC supports initial steps in policy reform. There is a risk that
the commitments made will not be followed through on sufficiently,
due to both technical and political challenges. This risk is being
mitigated in two main ways. First, a companion TA credit will support
the technical side of the agenda through support for more detailed
elaboration of implementation mechanisms for the proposed reforms.
Second, on the political front, the reforms under SOSACI will be given
continued support by the recently-established high level Social
Protection Commissions, which for the first time give the sector a
cToss-agency institutional base. The reforms are also supported by
different local groups within and outside Government, and will also
require implementation to justify the proposed SOSACII. They are
also to be supported under the IMF SBA.
Schedule of Disbursements:        Single tranche
Poverty Category:                 N/A
Rate of Return:                   N/A
Project ID Number:                P069058
Map                               1BRD 28578R
Staff who contributed during preparation include: Philip O'Keefe, Kendra Gregson, Jacob Ganinelgaard, Darrell Prokopetz,
Milan Vodopivec, Elaine Patterson, Joseph Ingram, Imelda Mueller, Dilek Barlas, Siew Chai Ting, Willem Van Eeghen, Emily
Andrews, Simon Gray, Michal Rutkowski, Kinnon Scott, Joseph Formoso, Sarah Forster, Jasmina Hadzic, and Lejla Zaimovic.
Peer reviewers were Tamar Manuelyan Atinc (EASHD); Mansoora Rashid (ECSHD); and Roger Robinson (Office of the High
Representative, OHR). ILO and OHR staff also collaborated closely on labor reform issues.



vi



vii
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Table of Contents
I. THE ECONOMY                                                                               _1
II. THE SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                                 _5
A.  Poverty focused economic policy                                                     _         6
B.  Social protection policy and institutional framework                                   _6
C.  Labor Markets_8
D.  Cash transfer programs                                                                 _ 14
(i)  Social assistance __ 14
(ii)  Pensions and disability                                                           _ 15
(iii) Veterans' benefits                                                                _ 16
E.  Social Statistics                                                                     _ 17
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT_                                                                      19
(a)  Rationale for Bank Involvement                                                       _ 19
(b)  Benefits and Risks                                                                   _ 20
(c)  Coordination with the IMF                                                            _ 21
(d)  Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision                                   _ 21
A.  Social protection policy and institutional framework                                _21
B.  Labor market issues __                           ____  21
C.  Social protection programs                                                          _ 22
D.  Social statistics                                                                   _ 23
(e)  Effectiveness Condition                                                              _ 23
(f)  Implementation                                                                       _23
(g)  Financial Arrangements                                                               _ 24
(h)  Poverty Implications                                                                 _ 25
(i)  Environmental Impact                                                                 _ 26
IV. RECOMMENDATION                                                                             26
Annex 1: Key Economic Indicators                                                               27
Annex 2: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                     _29
Annex 3: Timetable of Key Processing Events                                                    31
Annex 4: Letter of Development Policy                                                       _32
Annex 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix                                                         42
Annex 6: Outline of Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC)                          45
Annex 7: Country at a Glance                                                                   47



viii



REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed Social Sector
Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) for SDR15.3 million (US$20 million
equivalent) to support the Govemment's structural reform program. The Credit would be subject to
standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years, inclusive of a 10-year grace period.
2.     This Report should be read in conjunction with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the
World Bank Group for Bosnia and Herzegovina, IDA/R2000-60, which was discussed on May 18, 2000.,
and the Project Appraisal Document for the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC),
IDA/R2000-201, which was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on December 7, 2000 and which is
a companion operation to the proposed SOSAC.
..  THE ECONOMY
3.    BH has experienced high economic growth since 1995 (averaging 40 percent annually between
1995 and 1999), with inflation under control, and in single digits nationally. This has led to significant
improvements in per capita consumption for most households. Basic economic and social infrastructure
has been rapidly rehabilitated with the support of massive donor funding, so that physical access to basic
services has improved substantially since the cessation of hostilities.
4.     However, while progress has been made, implementation of economic reforms has been slower
than hoped. The authorities embarked in May 1998 on an ambitious economic reform program, supported
by IDA adjustment lending and an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA).' The objectives of this program
have been to create a unified economic space and a functioning banking system, privatize and restructure
enterprises, reform the labor market, reshape the pension and health systems, implement a simplified
customs system, and liberalize the trade regime. These reforms are backed by an ongoing macroeconomic
stabilization program based on a currency board arrangement, accompanied by strict fiscal discipline.
Macroeconomic performance has been good. Growth has remained strong (still fueled, as over the past
several years, by donor-funded reconstruction) and there has been good progress in building State and
Entity economic institutions, including expansion in 2000 of the State government from three to six
ministries. A start has also been made in tacking most structural policy reform areas. However,
performance has been undermined by weak governance and insufficient commitment. Thus, the bulk of the
reform agenda remains to be completed.
5.    Strengthened institutions and policies have contributed to effective macro management. The most
successful institutional achievement in recent years is full establishment of BH's Central Bank (which
operates as a currency board) and launching of its new currency - the Konvertibile Marka (KM), pegged to
the Deutsche Mark (DM). In May 1999 a country-wide customs tariff regime was adopted, and other barriers
to the intemal movement of people and goods have been eliminated. Inter-Entity trade has increased
substantially. More recently, most customs exemptions have been removed. BH has also begun the process
Following successful completion of the Fourth and Fifth Reviews as adopted by the IMF Board on December 22, 2000, the SBA
may be converted to a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in the new calendar year.



2
of WTO application. An automatic transfer mechanism to cover debt service and the State's administrative
expenditures was successfully established and has operated effectively. Finally, an ambitious reform of the
internal payments system is underway, with qualified commercial banks having been recently licensed to
conduct payments transactions.
6.    On the fiscal side, discipline was maintained in 1998 and 1999. Revenue shortfalls exposed the
fragile fiscal framework during 1998 and forced both Entities to cut expenditures. Revenue performance in
both Entities improved in 1999. A program of reforms in public expenditure planning, monitoring and
control has contributed to improved budget management. This has been supported by IDA under two Public
Finance Structural Adjustment Credits (PFSACs), the second of which is under implementation. The 1999
budget deficit for the Federation was about 1.3 percent of GDP and about 3.5 percent in Republika Srpska.
The current account deficit was contained at 21 percent of GDP in 1999 (compared with 33 percent in 1998).
However, tax policy is still the subject of ongoing reforms, and tax evasion is a problem requiring continued
concerted attention from the authorities, with the support of the international community. Implementation of
Entity tax harmonization has taken time and Entity tax policies still do not fully foster a common economic
area in the country. Nevertheless recent tax measures adopted by both Entities (under the PFSAC II program)
represent a major step forward in the creation of a single economic space.
7.   In the first half of 2000, budgets in both Entities were strained by a combination of revenue shortfalls
and higher than expected expenditures. Notable, among these, were wage increases not in line with the
budgets established at the beginning of the year. However, revised budgets in the latter half of the year
(including a rollback in public sector wages) allowed both Entities to close the budget gaps for the Year
2000. With the exception of the Mostar Pension Fund, extrabudgetary funds continued to be a cause for
concem, and Governments in both Entities intensified their dialogue with the IFIs to improve the situation.
Resulting pension fund reforms have helped to eliminate pension fund deficits, which in the RS, unlike the
Federation, did constitute a budgetary problem as shortfalls last year were financed through budget transfers
to the pension fund. Both Entities and the State have also taken steps to improve fiscal transparency, with
appointment of Auditors General, consolidation into the budget of revenues from extra-budgetary
organizations, and other measures. The 2000 budget deficit for the Federation is projected at 2.8 percent of
GDP and 3.8 percent in Republika Srpska. The current account deficit is projected to remain stable at 20
percent of GDP.
8.     Spurred by donor-funded reconstruction, growth has been strong, despite the 1999 Kosovo crisis.
In tandem with good macroeconomic
BH: Evolution of GDP level and GDP growth
US5 billion      1990 - 1999        GDP growvth  performance, major progress has been made in
15                                  80%      reconstruction during the last two years.
lo        _|                  |   - 60%      Inplementation of the 1996-1999 Priority
5                 |                  - 40%  Reconstruction and Recovery Program (PRRP),
o                                  20!    - o%  endorsed by international donors and the BH
19901991 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999    government at war's end, has been largely
successful in rebuilding economic and social
S992-S993 GDP notavailable.      _GDP kevel
Source:World Bank estinates   -. -*  - *GDP growth rate  infrastructure and restarting economic activity.
By the end of 2000, road, telecom, power, water
and education services had been returned to close to prewar availability levels. With continued
reconstruction and macroeconomic stability, BH has experienced continuing strong growth. Though down
from its very high postwar level (on a still-low postwar base), GDP growth is estimated to have been 9
percent in 1999, following growth of 13 percent in 1998 (Chart 1). Estimates for 2000 are for around 10
percent growth, despite a severe drought which resulted in substantially lower agricultural production.
However, even with growth rates that have been the highest in the region, 1999 GDP has reached only



3
about half the prewar level. Growth patterns indicate a strong recovery primarily in service activities and
light industry, likely to continue as the main leaders of growth in the medium-term.
9.     Nonetheless, poor progress on structural reforms means recovery is not yet sustainable. The
economic recovery to date has been achieved largely on the strength of substantial financial and technical
assistance from the international community. Progress in the structural reforms needed to consolidate these
achievements and move towards sustainable growth has stalled. At the heart of the problem lies
inconsistent commitment to reform. Enterprise privatization was launched only about one year ago, after
setbacks that weakened public confidence. Perhaps most seriously, discretionary administrative
intervention in the economy limits the development of the private sector and encourages the potential for
corruption.
10.    While reconstruction has led to increased incomes, most Bosnians remain worse off than before the
war. Deprivation was widespread at war's end. Four years of reconstruction and growth have brought
dramatic increases in income and well being. Per capita incomes have more than doubled to about
US$1,000, (from US$456 at end 1995). Household surveys provide evidence of increasing per capita
consumption. Progress has also been achieved in other dimensions of human deprivation that affected
postwar BH; e.g., improved conditions for return of refugees and displaced, notably physical security, has
led to increasing numbers of minority returns. However, despite high postwar growth rates, BH remains
the second-poorest country in the SEE region on a per capita basis. While there are many estimates, there
are no reliable recent data on poverty incidence based on a representative household survey 2. The best
currently available survey data suggest that 27 percent of BH's population of about 4.2 million fall below a
relative poverty line, while 11 percent fall below an extreme poverty line.3 This data also suggest that
regional disparities are high: about half the population of Republika Srpska fell below the poverty line, and
substantial differences existed among the Federation's cantons.
11.    Unemployment is a key determinant of poverty. Registered unemployment reached around 40
percent in both Entities in 1999 (and has stagnated).4 These rates are among the highest in the region.
While a significant share of the registered unemployed generate some income in the informal sector, survey
data suggest that households where the head is unemployed are three to five times poorer than households
where the head is employed. Several other groups are particularly vulnerable to poverty, including the
internally displaced (nearly 40 percent of the poor have one household member who is displaced).
Children and the elderly are more at risk of poverty, as are single female (often widowed) heads of
households.
12.    The social safety net programs inherited from the Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY)
remain, without the public resources to fund them (and with variable capacities between and within the two
Entities). Direct donor support has helped fill the gaps over the last several years. However, after a
relatively successful reduction of generalized impoverishment, a more finely tuned poverty-alleviation
strategy that addresses BH's specific postwar context is needed. Reform of cash transfer programs are
2 In order to improve the situation, a Living Standards Measurement Survey is planned for 2001 as the first step in a series of
household and labor force surveys implemented by local statistical agencies with support from donors.
3 Due to data limitations, these poverty lines are based on relative adjusted per capita income. The two lines are drawn at 60
percent ("base poverty") and 30 percent ("extreme poverty") of the median of adult-equivalent-economies-of-scale-adjusted-per-
capita-income. Bisogno and Chong, "Poverty and Inequality in BiHf: The Situation after the War, " The World Bank, 2000
(based on 1997 CIET survey).
4 Figures do not include workers on the "waiting list," who do not work but until mid-2000 retained a right to be called back to
work. Official figures estimate a further 7-8 percent of the labor force in the Federation and around 12 percent in Republika
Srpska were on wait lists as of mid-2000.



4
needed which will rationalize complex benefit structures, overhaul financing mechanisms, and improve
targeting (alleviating the vicious circle of areas of low financial capacity and high poverty).
13.    Finally, there are continuing differences in the economic performance of the two Entities. Among
the most important, GDP per capita is estimated at US$1,081 in the Federation, compared with US$745 in
Republika Srpska. This difference stems in part from a later start to donor assistance and economic
recovery in Republika Srpska. However, Republika Srpska has also been significantly less integrated with
the intemational economy. Differences in Entity incomes mean differing capacities to address the problem
of poverty. Income differences also imply unequal capacities to manage extemal indebtedness, since the
share of debt is similar in absolute value in each Entity. Over time, as barriers to the movement of labor,
goods and capital across Entity lines are eliminated - creating one economic space in BH - and as links
with Europe and with the global economy are strengthened, living standards and economic structures in the
two Entities should converge. Policies in both Entities should be geared toward accelerating that process.
14.    Sustainable, private sector led growth is the most important single element in planning and
implementing a credible poverty-reduction strategy. Given BH's high unemployment rate, growth that
spurs a significant return of labor to work will be critical. Thus labor market and business environment
reforms to make hiring of labor in the formal sector less costly for firms will be important elements of a
pro-poor growth strategy. This requires major improvements in the legislative environment, from
fundamental overhaul of existing labor legislation carried out during 2000, to elimination of the costly
administrative barriers that deter investment and present opportunities for rent-seeking.
15.    External financing: Declining donor support will require major fiscal adjustments in coming
years. With the last tranche of US$1 billion in funding for the PRRP pledged in May 1999, completing
funding for the US$5.1 billion program, donor commitments will now begin to decline from their
exceptionally high level and concessionality to those associated with more normal development needs. It is
estimated that about US$3.5 billion of
BH: Donor Commitments and Dis bursements     these funds had been disbursed by end-
US$ biions       1996 - 2004                      1999.' The remainder is expected to be
2.50    --                     - - -C n t
2.00 - -, l98              p-DisbursCmnuss    disbursed over the course of the next two
L50 - ~  . t38                                 years, reflecting the historic pace of
100  -                                         converting commitments to expenditures.
0.50                         - --  -            Thus, reduced commitments are not
0.096 197 S98  999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004     expected to translate into significantly
reduced spending levels on the ground
for another 2 years or so.
Source WB/EC Donor database and Bank staff esimates
16.    However, BH will continue to
require donor support to maintain extemal liquidity. As in recent years, BH's near-term financing
requirements consist mostly of reconstruction costs and debt service obligations. Inflows of the remaining
funds from the PRRP will meet a large share of BH's external financing needs in 2000-2002. However,
commitments of new donor assistance will be critical to maintaining external liquidity. Privatization and an
improving environment for private investment activity will also be needed to bring inflows of foreign
investment and allow for limited recourse to commercial credit. The annual external financing requirement
in 2001-2002 is estimated at about US$800-US$900 million. After taking into account anticipated
reconstruction assistance and other identified official and private flows (including arrears clearance and
debt relief), an additional US$150 million in 2001, and upwards of US$300 million in 2002 would be
5Estimate.



5
required in direct balance of payments support each year. Fast disbursing assistance from the IMF and
World Bank could provide up to half of the required support in 2001, with the balance coming from the
European Union (EU) and other bilateral donors. Balance of payments assistance from the Bank and Fund
in 2002 is unlikely to exceed a third of the required support.
II.  THE SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
17.   Faced with the many issues in the labor market and social safety net outlined, the authorities have
recognized the need for fundamental reform in the social protection field (defined here to include the social
safety net and labor markets). The proposed Credit is an important step in initiating reform of these areas
in BH. However, it is only the first step in tackling a large reform agenda. The SOSAC targets those areas
where there has been significant progress in the policy dialogue to date. However, the Letter of
Development Policy also outlines the directions for medium term reforms of the social protection system.
Further Bank adjustment support would be dependent on achieving adequate progress on the medium term
reform agenda. In addition, the SOTAC supports institutional strengthening that will promote effective
implementation of the medium term reform agenda.
18.   The rationale for development and implementation of a social protection reform agenda at this
point in BH's transition is threefold:
-  the labor market is at a critical point where reforms are needed which require major policy and
financial support from the international community. Both Entities are faced with a large pool of
unemployed, with limited progress in recent years in stimulating productive employment opportunities
for them and new cohorts entering the labor market (see below on labor market situation). The sense of
crisis in the labor market is made more acute by the onset of privatization, which is likely to lead to
labor shedding in restructured enterprises. At the same time, demand for new labor will probably only
take off in the medium term in these enterprises. Unless the policy framework for labor is made more
flexible and conducive to job creation, the social impact of privatization is likely to make a bad
situation worse in the short to medium term;
* in order for the Entity governments to follow-through on enterprise privatization and restructuring, they
need to reform their basic social safety nets so that they can better mitigate the social impact of the
reforms. Resource availability suggests that safety net programs will remain less than adequate under
even a "best case" scenario, but the political and social value of serious social mitigation efforts by
governments should not be underestimated; and
*  there is a basic need to strengthen social policy formulation capacity in BH which to date has been
fragmented, and based more on the relative strength of different interest groups than proceeding from a
coherent policy commitment to addressing the needs of the poorest, and using limited public resources
to achieve this goal.
19.   Objectives: The overall objectives of the reforms that have been undertaken by Govermments in
both Entities as part of the SOSAC-supported agenda in the social protection area are to:
* improve the policy framework for generation of productive employment opportunities through
comprehensive reform of labor legislation;
* support development of institutional and budgetary mechanisms for development and prioritization of
social protection programs in BH;



6
*  improve the impact and efficiency of the social safety net, in particular focusing programs on the needs
of the poorest; and
*  strengthen the social statistics base in order to ensure that social policy is formulated on a well-
informed basis.
20.   These sectoral objectives are also linked to the broader policy agenda of governments in both
Entities of BH, namely:
*  policies that have poverty reduction as their primary objective;
*  increased policy harmonization between and within Entities, in order to promote a single economic
space;
* more transparent and accountable governance structures and administrative processes;
*  promotion of social conditions to facilitate return of displaced and refugee populations; and
* strengthening the ability of Governments to consult with social partners in policy formulation, and
effectively communicate the goals and trade-offs of reforms to the general population.
A.    Poverty focused economic policy
21.   As part of the overall policy dialogue with the Bank and the Fund and other donors, the State and
both Entities have committed to a two-step approach in building an economic strategy for BH. The
Bosnian authorities, for the first time since Dayton, are keen to develop their own economic strategy to
serve as a framework for policy and spending decisions and to guide donors' development assistance.
They, therefore, decided to formulate an Economic Development Strategy (EDS) for the period 2000-2004,
and to use this as a base to elaborate a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), starting with an I-PRSP.
It was acknowledged earlier on in the Year 2000 that the EDS should be a strategy for the whole of BH, and
a team comprised of representatives from the two Entities, coordinated by the State, was set up in March
2000 to develop the EDS and then the I-PRSP. Consistent with the Comprehensive Development
Framework (CDF), the EDS is being prepared in a participatory manner. A framework for the EDS was
first agreed, and the inter-Entity team is currently working on their third draft of the strategy which they
hope to complete early on in calendar year 2001, following further discussions with governments, civil
society and donors. They intend to extract an I-PRSP from the EDS, focusing on a well-structured
participation plan for the definition of a full PRSP. The I-PRSP is currently anticipated to be ready in May
2001. To ensure quality of ownership this is obviously a delicate process in the Bosnian context, and not
one that should be unduly rushed.
B.    Social protection Dolicv and institutional framework
22.    Current situation: Across the social sectors, policy formulation is under-developed and
uncoordinated, a situation exacerbated by the devolution of most responsibilities in social assistance, health
and education. This results in fragmented approaches to basic planning and management in social
protection, and a virtual absence of well-considered prioritization. There is an absence of medium-term
policy and vision about the goals and expectations of social policy, both within and across sectors. In
addition, there is no strategy for communicating the nature and objectives of reforms to the general public,
which undermines public confidence in policy makers, and could contribute to backlash against reforms.
The situation is reflected in the absence of a medium term fiscal expenditure framework for social
protection, which could act as a tool to promote the prioritization of short- and long-term measures, and of
their consideration within the context of the available resource envelope.
23.   In the Federation, the ministry directly responsible for social assistance is also responsible for
labor, refugees and displaced persons. There is a separate ministry responsible for veteran's issues, and



7
pensions policy is developed (in an ad hoc manner) and implemented mainly under the leadership of extra-
budgetary pension funds. In most cases, there is considerable duplication of functions, either formally
through separate institutions for Bosniak and Croat areas, or informally through limited communication
between different tiers of management. The complex institutional arrangements are overlaid with Dayton-
mandated delineation of roles and responsibilities between the Federation, cantons and municipalities. In
most cases, the result in the social protection field is that there is a "weak center" which is responsible for
overall policy development, but has a limited revenue base and is not responsible for policy
implementation. In Republika Srpska, the social welfare ministry is also responsible for health, with
veteran's issues connected with the Ministry of Labor, and refugees and displaced persons being the
responsibility of a separate agency. Those in need of social assistance may in some way be connected with
all of these ministries. The issue of roles and responsibilities between the center and the municipalities is
made somewhat less complex by the absence of cantons and the more diversified revenue base of the
Entity, but the root issue of separation of policy development and implementation is also relevant.
24.   Issues and reforms supported under SOSAC: Governments in both Entities have recognized that
improved social policy formulation requires development of a medium-term reform program for social
protection and labor relations. They have also realized that this requires much improved institutional
coordination across and within line ministries and government agencies. To this end, each Entity formed in
miid-2000 a Social Protection Commission (FBH)/Working Group (RS), with representation from labor,
social welfare, veterans, pensions, employment services, MOF, refugee/displaced persons, and health. For
the first time, this provides the institutional framework for lessening the fragmentation in social protection
policy making. In recent months, these groups have developed the first draft Social Protection Strategy
produced by each Entity. Within the SOSAC framework, the draft Strategies have also been endorsed at
the highest level of govemment in each Entity. The Strategies for the first time treat social protection as an
integrated whole, allowing more considered discussion of trade-offs and policy priorities. They are also
intended to provide the framework for further elaboration of social protection polices over the medium
term.
25.   It has also been necessary to develop a medium term fiscal expenditure framework for the social
protection sector, which allows it to be integrated both within the social sectors, and more broadly. For the
first time, each Entity has produced in 2000 a Social Protection Expenditure Strategy (SPES), which sets
out a fiscal framework for the sector for the period 2001-2003. The SPES is an integral part of the overall
Budget Framework Paper. This has been a key document in planning the 2001 budget. To make this an
even more effective exercise in the future, there would need to be establishment of regular channels of
information exchange to compile and maintain a consolidated presentation on expenditures at various
government levels broken down by social sector area.
26.   In both Entities, the relevant ministries recognize the issues of how to configure ministerial and
institutional responsibilities in the most effective manner to promote overall coherence in the social
protection system. The first issue is whether the current configuration of ministerial responsibilities most
effectively promotes the goals of protecting the poor, whatever their social category. This is particularly the
case in the RS, where the health part of the combined health/social welfare portfolio dominates the agenda
of the ministry. A second issue - whatever is determined to be the appropriate configuration of
responsibilities between different public agencies - is how to promote better information sharing and
coordination between different agencies involved in social protection. This needs to happen first at the
policy level, so that there is clearer agreement on overall priorities in social protection. But it is also
needed at the operational level to minimize problems like "double dipping", and generally ensure that the
limited resources available benefit those in need, rather than being concentrated on certain groups who may
not be the poorest. In order to address the situation, both Entities have agreed during SOSAC preparation



8
on TOR for a functional review of social protection roles at all levels of government, including identifying
institutional strengthening needs. The reviews will be financed under the recently approved SOTAC
(companion TA credit to SOSAC).
27.    Governments in both Entities are also keen to improve their communications about social
protection reforms with the public, including social partners. A first step was taken in the inter-Entity
workshop in December 1999 hosted by the social policy ministries. In order to move ahead, both Entities
have agreed during SOSAC preparation on TOR for a major public information campaign on the nature and
objectives of social protection reforms. This would also include development of guidelines for carrying out
of such campaigns in the future. Financing would be provided under SOTAC.
28.    Finally, at the local level, there is an issue of how to promote better cross-program coordination.
There are initiatives underway such as the projects in Travnik in FBH and Prijedor in RS to develop
municipal welfare management boards comprised of government and third sector organizations which
would jointly identify those in need of assistance, and develop strategies to address these needs. The
lessons of these pilots are reflected in the draft Social Protection Strategy.
C.    Labor Markets
29.    Current situation: BH presently has an unsustainably high level of unemployment. While it is
difficult to get robust estimates of unemployment, due to the large informal sector, registered
unemployment in 1999 was around 263,000 in the Federation (just under 40 percent of the labor force) and
150,000 in Republika Srpska (just over 40 percent of the labor force). If workers on waiting lists are
included in the estimates, the broad official rate of unemployment increases to around 45 percent in the
Federation, and just under 50 percent in the RS 6, These rates are amongst the highest of all transition
economies, though should be treated with considerable caution as not all the registered "unemployed" are
actually so in practice, with perhaps 150,000 in FBH and 90,000 in RS informally employed. It is clear that
serious welfare improvements for the bulk of the population are dependent on improving this situation by
giving the highest priority to creation of productive employment opportunities.
30.    While a significant share of the registered unemployed generate some income in the informal
sector, the survey data available suggest that the unemployed on average are living in difficult conditions,
with poverty rates between three and five times higher than for households where the head is employed 7.
With the advent of privatization, it would be expected that unemployment rates would increase in the short
run, as enterprises are restructured.
31.    Despite such high unemployment and potential for further lay-offs, the environment for creation of
productive employment opportunities in the fornal sector is not encouraging. Core labor legislation in
place in both Entities until the second half of 2000 enshrined centralized and detailed control of labor
relations, reinforcing rigidities in the labor market, and creating unreasonable and unnecessary obligations
on employers. Tax rates on labor are high, discouraging hiring of new workers, and increasing incentives
for informality. The environment for SMEs - typically the source of most employment and fastest
employment growth in Western European economies - is onerous and stymies growth of small firms.
6 See UNDP, Human Development Report for BH, 1998; Bosnia and Herzegovina Labor Market Study, Concept Paper (World
Bank, 2000).
7 See Bisogno and Chong (op.cit).



9
32.   In addition to characteristics of the labor market which BH shares with many other transition
economies, there are a range of factors which are either country-specific or specific to post-Yugoslav
countries. These include:
*  ongoing issues with ethnic discrimination in the labor market. This is an inheritance of the war period.
While there has been some progress in the beginning to address the worst cases of ethnically based
employment discrimination, stronger provisions and enforcement are needed to increase the costs to
employers of such behavior. The recent amendments to labor legislation in both Entities support this
process through significantly stronger anti-discrimination provisions;
*  the long tradition of social ownership of enterprises has resulted in insider control by current
management of enterprises, which is stronger than that encountered in other transition economies. The
situation has been exacerbated by increased politicization of management in large firms;
*  the existence of "wait lists" is a peculiar phenomenon of former Yugoslav countries. This is discussed
in more detail below. It is an important consideration in terms of comparisons to other ECA countries,
where firms typically either fire workers (CEE experience) or place them on administrative leave or
short time arrangements which do not generate high direct costs for the firm (FSU experience). In
contrast, workers on wait lists in BH have had generous entitlements which they have expected firms to
honor. Their claims are strongly supported by the trade unions. In practice, the existence of wait list
provisions appears to have acted as a significant source of confusion and labor immobility to date; and
*  just as BH has been unusually dependent on foreign aid during the post-war period, so it is likely to be
highly dependent on foreign investment to invigorate the economy. Foreign investors have been
concerned that labor legislation has been unduly costly and administratively onerous to date, retaining
the basic philosophy of the socialist period.
33.   In the area of labor legislation, both Entities inherited the Yugoslavian labor legislation. The RS
passed new labor legislation in 1993, which has been amended several times in recent years, and in 1997
developed an umbrella collective agreement for use in various sectors of the economy. In the case of the
Federation, the first Labor Law was only passed in the second half of 1999, in the face of considerable
opposition from the international community. Both Entities also have a range of other labor legislation,
including laws on strikes, laws dealing with the rights of unemployed etc.
34.    The highly rigid labor relations framework has been a barrier to necessary restructuring, as the
costs and bureaucratic constraints on labor shedding are substantial. Strong trade unions have used the
labor legislation that was on the books until very recently - but not implementable in many aspects - as a
tool in negotiations with governments and regularly threaten industrial action. While unions admit that
many obligations can not be financed by firms, they have resisted negotiated settlements that fall short of
legal entitlements. Thus a critical element of the enabling environment has hindered private sector
development and labor mobility.
35.    Taxes on labor in BH are even higher than transition economy averages. Despite some reductions
in recent years, labor income in the Federation is subject to a 15 percent wage tax (a withholding tax on
wages net of social insurance contributions), a cantonal personal income tax (at levels up to 50 percent of
the Federation personal income tax rates)' and a 45 percent social insurance contribution. In the RS, a wage
withholding tax, a 15-25 percent citizen income tax (which has a regressive structure), and a 44 percent
social insurance tax are levied on labor income. The cumulative tax burden on an average worker's gross
income could be as high as 55 percent. The incentives for non- or partial payment are therefore high, and
contribute to a narrow contributions base. Many firms opt for the informal sector, while forrnal sector
enterprises often report workers on the minimum wage. Prior to 2000, fiscal pressures had been increased



10
by contributions exemptions granted to employers such as the military, miners, and police, in FBH by law
(though there have been recent moves to limit exemptions), and in RS in practice.
36.   There has been gradual progress in a number of areas, but the situation is still negative. In terms of
labor taxes, the Federation achieved progress in 1998 on harmonizing wage tax rates, and has implemented
some reductions on social insurance contributions. In addition, there have been proposals for further
payroll tax reductions. The RS has also reduced social insurance contributions significantly since 1996,
with further reductions in health and employment contributions in 1999.
37.   Both Entities have programs for payment of unemployment benefits, and provision of active labor
programs. In addition, contributions are meant to be paid for many of the registered unemployed for health
insurance in both Entities, and also for pension insurance for some beneficiaries in RS. These are
administered by Employment Institutes in the two Entities (with separate Bosniak and Croat Els in the
Federation). The institutional arrangements are complicated by the continued existence of a "State" level
El, the successor of the BH Employment Institute from former Yugoslavia. This now serves only the
Bosniak areas of the Federation. However, there is also a "Federation" EI, also serving Bosniak areas, but
which now receives the payroll transfers intended for public employment programs. Until December 2000.
it was technically illegal, as it was never established by law or decree. This has led to a situation where
around three quarters of a million KM per week is paid into a payment bureau account of the FBHEI, with
limited accountability on how the money is spent.
38.   El programs are financed from payroll taxes. In Republika Srpska, this is I percent of total payroll
in 1999 (split between employer and employee). In the Federation, there is a total of 3 percent, with
2 percent from employee and 1 percent from employer. With the limited financing base and high registered
unemployment, Els are severely constrained in being able to meet their legal obligations for benefit
payments and active programs. This has been exacerbated by the high replacement rates on benefits in
place until recently (e.g., 60 percent of last salary in RS, and up to 60 percent of average wage in FBH).
39.   Issues and reforms supported under SOSAC: The overall priority of Govemments in the both
Entities is to encourage job creation in the formal sector. Given the fiscal environment, having a job will
continue to be the main pillar of household welfare for the large majority of the population. In order to
promote this objective, continued rapid growth will be key, and will need to be promoted through a range
of policies beyond social protection. These are outlined in the draft EDS.
40.   Until mid-2000, Govemments in both Entities had been reluctant to deal with the trade-offs that
will be necessary in labor market policy in order to promote productive employment opportunities. This
can be seen in wage policy, where concessions granted for wage increases have been dealt with through
wage arrears, and no policy link is made to labor productivity; in benefit policy, where generous
commitments have been made to workers but rarely met in practice; and for other comtnitments on terms
and conditions of work (e.g., complex procedures for firing workers which contribute to low job creation
rates). This has created an overwhelming need for Governments to develop a new framework for labor
relations, which is developed in closer collaboration with social partners and communicated to the public at
large to make them more aware of key policy trade-offs.
41.   In the area of labor legislation, there are a range of problems with the labor laws that were in place
until mid-2000. Overall, the laws retained the inheritance of socially managed firms, where enterprises
accepted welfare functions which are the responsibility of govemment in market economies. While both
Govemments and the international community appreciate that labor legislation is not the only factor in
ensuring vibrant labor markets and employment growth, the BH-specific factors noted above suggest that



11
labor legislation is unusually important in the functions of the labor market, in contrast for example to
many FSU countries. Major issues which Governments in both Entities have addressed in the recent
overhaul of labor legislation supported by the SOSAC include:
*  the legally unclear relationship between the Labor Law and other legislation (e.g., social security
legislation), and other types of legal agreements (e.g., collective agreements; work contracts). In a
number of cases, there are basic inconsistencies with other laws that make clarity on the questions of
legal hierarchy and subordination critical;
*  overly detailed prescription of work terms and conditions which are typically devolved to collective
agreement or work contracts in market economies. While it is appropriate in some areas that
governments ensure minimum standards (e.g., non-discrimination; child labor), the laws until recently
went well beyond what is considered appropriate Government prescription in a market economy. This
resulted in impediments to employment creation, and/or disregard of legislation by firms, and increased
informality. Two notable examples have been provisions on dismissal of workers and provisions on
fixed-term contracts. Prior to the recent changes, it was possible to enter into fixed-term contracts only
in a narrowly prescribed range of situations. This has now been amended to give much more
flexibility. Equally, dismissals were difficult and costly to do. There was no general provision
allowing termination for economic or competence reasons, long compulsory notice periods, controls
amounting to a veto on collective dismissals for trade unions and work councils, and other provisions
which made employers reluctant to take on new workers, due to fear of dismissal costs. These
provisions have also been substantially amended, while retaining basic protections of workers;
*  provisions that make all employers and employees automatically covered by general and branch
collective agreements. This is undesirable from an economic perspective, and inconsistent with ILO
standards, which only allow involuntary coverage of non-signatories to collective agreements in a
prescribed range of circumstances. More broadly, to date there is no overarching legal framework
which regulates the conclusion of such agreements, including who may legitimately be parties to them,
their duration, and their impact on private employers who are not parties to the agreement. As long as
all private employers have been automatically subject to employment terms and conditions over which
they have little control and which are not justified in many cases (e.g., 70 percent salary loading for
working away from one's home town), serious private investors have been reluctant to make
investments in an already risky environment;
  the laws retain a high level of discretionary control for Labor Inspectorates and other public officials in
their interactions with firms. While again there are important regulatory functions for Government in
the labor market (e.g., to ensure occupational health and safety standards are observed), the unclear
powers and discretion given to the hispectorate increase opportunities for rent seeking from firms. This
has been addressed to some extent in recent amendments, but will need further work under the auspices
of the labor law reforms groups in each Entity; and
*  the monopoly of public employment services on all job placement and intermediary activities. Until
recently, there was no provisions for private employment agencies, or other methods of mediation
between employer and employees. This has now been amended, subject to regulation by the relevant
Ministry.
42.   In addition to the above issues, BH has the particular issue of "waiting lists", which is a labor
market institution inherited from Former Yugoslavia. Wait lists were introduced originally so that firms
could put workers "on hold" during periods of economic downtum, paying a stipend that was lower than
their wage, plus their social insurance contributions. In both Entities, workers were placed on waiting lists
in the 1990s for a variety of reasons. In the Federation, there were 52,000 people officially on wait lists as
of mid-2000, with a further estimated 10,000-20,000 people who have are likely to be given wait list status,
based on a recent re-registration process. In the RS, between 30,000 and 50,000 are estimated to be on



12
waiting lists, though the figure is harder to pin down, due to rotation of workers on and off the wait list. In
both Entities, there is generally felt to be an ethnic dimension to the problem. In the Federation, the Labor
Law of 1999 gave an entitlement to compensation - paid by the firm - of around KM5,000 per wait listed
worker, a liability which threatened to tip many firms into bankruptcy. In RS, the wait list entitlement prior
to recent amendments was that the worker should not be fired, but "temporarily" removed from work onto a
waiting-list for a period of 6-12 months, or, for workers sent to re-training or additional training, 12-18
months. During this time, they would have a right to compensation equal to 70 percent of average salary,
plus payment of social security contributions.
43.   In order to overhaul its labor legislation, FBH established a Commission on Labor Legislation with
representatives from the relevant ministry, the Bank, OHR, and ILO. The Commission agreed on a
program to revise all laws related to labor, with key initial measures related to the Labor Law itself, and the
Law on Job Placement and Social Security of the Unemployed. The key areas which were identified for
immediate amendment on the Labor Law included:
*  provisions defining the relationship between the Federation Labor Law and other federal and cantonal
laws and agreements (including collective agreements);
*  articles on termination of employment, including general provisions on circumstances in which
dismissal is allowed, shorter mandatory notification periods and other provisions;
4  articles on the role of trades unions and works councils in collective dismissal;
*  articles related to fixed-term employment contracts, allowing fixed term contracts to be concluded in a
wide range of circumstances;
-  articles on collective agreements, allowing for the first time that private sector employers are not
automatically bound; and
-  strengthened anti-discrimination provisions on general employment practices.
44.   On the issue of wait lists, the Commission debated a range of proposals. The agreed solution was
that wait listed workers have their claims settled either through rehiring by their employer (an unlikely
outcome in the majority of cases), or through payment of a small severance payment which would terminate
their wait listed status and extinguish claims against the enterprise or the public sector. The primary
obligation for payment remains on the enterprise. As adopted, the average compensation agreed was
around KM 1,000, or less than one fifth of the originally legislated amount, with a maximum of KM 1,200.
This has major positive implications for firms, and succeeds in eliminating once and for all the
phenomenon of wait listing workers.
45.   The Commission's work resulted in a proposed Law on Amendments to the FBH Labor Law, which
was approved by Governments in July 2000 and passed by both houses of Parliament as a key element of
the SOSAC program in August 2000. The law amended about 60 articles of the 1999 Labor Law, including
all the provisions noted above. The Labor Law now reflects modern European practice suitable to a market
economy, while still respecting basic workers' rights, and being consistent with all BH's ILO convention
obligations.
46.   The RS Labor Law in force until November 2000 revealed many of the same features outlined
above. In order to address the situation, a Working Group on Labor Legislation Reform was formed to
revise key labor legislation in the RS, with the same membership as the FBH Commission. The approach
preferred in the RS was an entirely new Labor Law, and one which was as closely as possible harmonized
with the amended FBH law, in order to promote a single economic space in BH.



13
47.   The new RS Labor Law was developed over a course of months by the Working Group, and
submitted to Government in September 2000. The core provisions address all the same issues as outlined
above for FBH, and adopted compensation and other provisions which were parallel. The Law was
adopted by Parliament in October 2000 as a key element of the SOSAC-supported reform program.
48.   Recognizing that labor legislation is only part of a wider picture, the authorities have also been
actively engaged with the international cornmunity on many areas of the labor market. This includes the
privatization policy dialogue and lending agenda being pursued with IDA and others such as USAID;
initiatives on SME development with IFC and others such as EBRD; and support of microfinance programs
for self-employment, through the Local Initiatives Credit with IDA and bilateral initiatives.
49.   In the case of Employment Institute programs, there are clear stluctural problems with
sustainability. The level of payroll tax needed to finance serious programs - both unemployment benefit
and active programs - is beyond what would be desirable in the current environment of high labor taxes 8.
Despite this, the authorities in both Entities anticipate a strengthened role for Els in dealing with the
negative employment impact of privatization programs. Trying to reconcile the current situation and future
objectives will not be possible without a fundamental reconsideration of the core functions of the Els, and
the public sector's ability to finance them. Governments in both Entities recognize the issues, and -
supported by the SOSAC - have recently approved new laws on public employment programs to put them
on a more sustainable footing, with a more transparent institutional and financing framework.
50.   In both Entities, the labor legislation working groups have overhauled existing legislation on the
entitlements of the unemployed and the functioning of Els. 9 In both cases, new laws were developed. The
resulting laws came into effect in December 2000 (FBH) and November 2000 (RS), and introduced the
following reforms:
*  elimination of the monopoly of the public employment institutes on job mediation activities;
*  reduction in the maximum length of entitlement to unemployment benefit, from 24-30 months to an
average of 8-9 months, with maximum of 12 months for those with more than 25 years work history,
and as low as 3 months for those with short work history. This is inI line with entitlement periods in
countries at similar income levels;
*  reduction in the level of benefits, from replacement rates of around 60 percent, to a range of 30 to
maximum of 40 percent, dependent on contribution history;
*  introduction of obligations on the registered unemployed to actively seek work, and not refuse jobs
offered by the El which they might reasonably be expected to take; and
*  in FBH, introduction of a firm legal base for the operations of the FBHEI and simplification of the
institutional structure of Els.
51.   The combined effect of these measures should be to promote more sustainable public employment
programs which are in line with regional comparators in terms of entitlements. An additional key element
of the SOSAC program is agreement on TORs for special reviews (including financial reviews) of Els in
both Entities, in order to promote greater efficiency, accountability and transparency in their operations.
The reviews will be financed from the SOTAC.
8 See simulations in SOSAC: Labor Market Issues (Abrahart, consultant report, December 1999).
9 The relevant laws are the Law on Job Placement and Social Security of the Unemployed in FBH, and the Law on
Employment and Rights of the Unemployed in RS (renamed Law on Employment in new law).



14
52.    In the area of taxes on labor, there is a need to balance the clear need for further reductions in labor
taxes with caution on the revenue side, given that payroll taxes are the base for pensions, health insurance
and other social programs. This has been a key area of focus for the IMF and Bank under ongoing dialogue
with Governments in both Entities.
D.    Cash transfer programs
(i)    Social assistance
53.    Current situation: Social assistance has been in a state of crisis in BH in recent years, both from
the demands of the post-conflict situation, and a severe case of transition issues facing may ECA countries.
In terms of the legal framework, however, there has not been the adjustment in entitlements and focus on
core objectives that one would have expected given the fiscal constraints and social needs. This has led to
a situation in many parts of BH where the credibility of the system has been undermined, due to inability to
deliver on policy commitments.
54.    As an inheritance of the former Yugoslav social protection system, BH has a comprehensive
network of Centers for Social Work (CSW) at the municipal level. These institutions are well placed to
respond to the specific needs of a community and its population when adequately resourced. The Centers
provide a broad network of direct and referral services, as well as cash benefits. They are complemented by
other organizations such as government social institutions and non-governmental organizations. While the
Centers are a critical element of the social protection system, they are often under-resourced, both in terms
of funds available for programs, and in equipment and other inputs to facilitate their work investment in
upgrading staff skills.
55.    Issues and reforms supported under SOSAC. A key issue in BH is that the financing of social
assistance is primarily the responsibility of the local govemments, while policy development is the
responsibility of Entity governments. In the Federation, each canton is responsible for determining the
benefits which are to be provided, and the share of responsibility between the canton and the municipal
level. Although the Federation-wide legal framework details the categories of beneficiaries, cantons must
find the resources to meet the entitlements. With limited resources, they are forced in practice to identify
their own priorities. In Republika Srpska, responsibility for Child Protection is with the Children's Fund,
which promotes a sharing of risk across the Entity. In addition, there is a social solidarity fund, intended as
a form of equalization mechanism to protect the most vulnerable groups. However, it has been used to date
to finance pension and veterans' programs, rather than social assistance. Apart from these funds and social
institutions which are the responsibility of the Entity, social assistance remains the responsibility of the
municipality.
56.    How to deal with the issue of pooling of risk across areas of different economic status and with
different social needs is critical to the future of social assistance in BH, particularly in the Federation. The
devolution of financing responsibility for social assistance in both Entities to the canton and/or municipal
level has resulted in major disparities in the basic social safety net in different parts of both Entities. This
is a product of three factors: (i) overall resource availability in the canton or municipality, which is highly
variable; (ii) the share of total public spending that cantons or municipalities dedicate to social assistance,
which is also variable, both between regions and within regions over time. In the Federation, the estimated
share of cantonal spending devoted to social welfare in 1999 ranged from less than 2 percent (in Velezupa
Posavska) to almost 15 percent (in Bosansko Podinjski), while in the RS the range in municipal spending in



15
1998 was from 1 percent to over 9 percent of the municipal budget 1'; and (iii) the absence of effective
equalization mechanisms, particularly in the Federation.
57.    The current structure of social transfers in BH is overly complex for a state that has such limited
resources. This creates several problems. The first is that beneficiaries receive transfers from several
different sources without there being effective monitoring of the cumulative total of transfers received.
This may be beneficial for the individual, but squeezes resources for others in need. There is a need to
simplify both social assistance and social transfer programs more broadly, then trying to ensure that the
remaining programs are better funded and more simple to administer.
58.    Data on the number of claimants and actual beneficiaries of SA are also inadequate. The overall
number of SA beneficiaries at the end of 1999 was estimated at about 145,000 or over 6 percent of the
population in the Federation, but estimates vary substantially either side of this number. The problem
exists both at the lowest administrative levels of the system (CSWs) and at higher ones (canton, Entity and
State). Most CSW, with few exceptions, are not capable of collecting information about the poorest people
in their municipalities (the number of the poor; their characteristics etc.). They are often weak even on
basic registration of claimants, keeping records updated, or providing detailed information on the support
granted (benefit type, amount granted, source of financing).
59.    The situation is exacerbated by lack of procedures for data collecting and updating. To date, there
are no uniform registration forms in use across the Entity or within cantons in the Federation. However, the
ministries in each Entity have been developing such procedures, and are keen to introduce them, assuming
adequate staff training and additional resources for rollout. The potential system improvements from
improved data availability can be seen in implementation of a social assistance database in Sarajevo canton,
which resulted in a 30 percent reduction in numbers of beneficiaries, and allowed resources to be
concentrated on those more in need. Rollout of the client register database in both Entities will be
supported under SOTAC.
60.    The authorities in both Entities recognize that the current situation is not sustainable, and have been
working as part of the SOSAC-supported program on strategies to reform social assistance. Both Entities
have prepared reports which outline plans for reform of social assistance, in the areas of financing, benefit
administration, targeting etc. The key to improving impact in both Entities will be developing financing
mechanisms which allocate funds at the Entity level for partial equalization of benefits, so that a minimum
benefit can be paid to those entitled wherever they are located within each Entity. The commitment to
developing such funding mechanisms is made in the draft Social Protection Strategy for each Entity, as well
the Entity Social Protection Expenditure Strategy (SPES) for 2000-2003.
(ii)    Pensions and disability
61.    Current situation: While there has been progress in pension reform in specific areas (e.g.,
developing actuarial projections of pension finances), progress has been slower than hoped. Under
PFSACII, pension reform is a major agenda item for Governments in both Entities, focusing on: (i) tying
benefit adjustments to available resources; (ii) restructuring entitlements to be more consistent with future
resource availability; (iii) dealing with special benefit schemes and eliminating unviable schemes; and (iv)
in the Federation, design and implementation of a strategy to merge the Sarajevo and Mostar PFs. In late
2000, both Entities made significant progress towards achieving these goals.
0 See reports of Topinska (Consultant, 1998, 1999, and 2000) and Whipprnan (Consultant, 1999).



16
62.   Issues and reforms supported under SOSAC: Despite the situation outlined above, the December
1999 SOSAC stakeholder workshop revealed willingness on the part of pension fund management to move
in a couple of areas not covered under PFSACII. They are:
63.    Coordination of Data Flows: One of the major problems inherited from the war was the fact that
the earnings records that were centralized in Sarajevo were not available in Mostar or Republika Srpska.
Thus, both Mostar and Republika Srpska awarded pensions without these data, either by providing flat
benefits or by using proxies for earnings. Over time a variety of ad hoc agreements worked between
Sarajevo and Mostar. To date no earnings-record transfer has been made on a wholesale basis, and no
agreement has been reached on how to provide pensions to individuals who had lived and worked in one
region but moved to another. However, an agreement drawn up by the three funds on exchange and
coordination of data between funds, and on coordination of benefits was signed during March 2000, and is
an important prior action taken in pursuit of the social protection agenda supported by SOSAC.
64.   Disability Issues: An important aspect of the pensions agenda relates to disability benefits. Given
the poverty profile in neighboring countries - where the disabled have high poverty rates - there is an
argument to address disability issues as a priority in order to improve the impact of the social safety net on
the poorest. Currently there are a variety of different ways and criteria for providing assistance to persons
with disabilities. It is not known how many individuals are legitimately disabled and, of those, how many
receive some type of assistance. Further, it is not known how many individuals who are disabled do not
receive benefits. The system of disability pensions in each of the funds appears to be based on an overly
complicated disability determination process, and on criteria that are purely medically based and not related
to an "ability to work" standard.
65.    Different groups of disabled people are dealt with differently in each of the Entities and by
different institutions. The difference in treatment of civilian victims of war is a case in point. These people
are covered under veterans' legislation in the RS (though in practice few benefits are paid), but under
general social protection legislation in the Federation. In addition, in the Federation, civilian victims of war
are treated differently to regular civilian disabled, with no clear justification.
66.   As part of the SOSAC-supported program, there have been important preliminary steps taken in
both Entities, with a view to developing the information base for more comprehensive reforns in the
medium term. This includes consolidation for the first time of administrative data on disabled of all types,
and for all disability programs. There has also been agreement on TOR - to be financed under SOTAC - to
support consistent categorization and treatment of the disabled in different systems, and working with local
counterparts to promote the "ability to work" linkage into eligibility assessment. It is important to make
progress in this area, as it is linked to the important fiscal issues of veterans' benefits programs through
disability categorization issues. Finally, disability programs are addressed in the draft Social Protection
Strategy, which outlines plans for consolidated disability legislation which would allow assessment and
categorization under different disability programs to be done in a more consistent manner, this reducing
arbitrary distinctions between beneficiaries.
(iii)   Veterans' benefits
67.    Current situation: Veterans' benefits are a major social and fiscal issue in both Entities. Entity
budgets are primarily responsible for financing benefits for an estimated 226,000 war invalids and survivor
families of deceased soldiers (84,000 war veterans, and around 140,000 family members). In 1999,
spending on these benefits accounted for around 10 percent of consolidated government expenditure, and a
much higher share of Entity level budgets (e.g., veterans' benefits expenditures account for around 26



17
percent of Entity revenues in 1999 in FBH). Household surveys show around 55 percent of the population
have an ex-soldier in the household, and that around 63 percent of males aged 1545 self-report as former
combatants ".
68.    Despite the high levels of spending on veterans' benefits, neither Entity is able to meet the full
range of legally mandated benefits. Veterans' programs therefore exhibit the same problems as pensions,
with existing lack of financial discipline and expenditure/benefit trends which are moving in the wrong
direction. The situation is worsened in the RS by the passage of a 1999 law which replaces the minimum
wage with the average wage as the basis for benefit determination. In the Federation, a draft law on
veterans' benefits has been under consideration since mid-1998. This contains a number of positive
provisions. However, it also contains provisions which would increase financing obligations.
69.   Issues and measures supported under SOSAC: There is a range of issues to address in developi:ng
sustainable veterans' benefits programs in BH. A preliminary step has been inclusion of veterans'
administrations in the SPES workshops for 2001. The SPES approved by each Entity Government as pait
of the Budget Framework Paper reflects a commitment to lowering the share of public spending on
veterans' programs over time, in order to release funds for better-targeted interventions. Equally, veterans'
representatives are on the Social Protection Commissions in both Entities, and veterans' issues are included
in the overall Social Protection Strategies, as they are an obvious area where spending will need to be
brought down over time, in order to give priority to programs which more effectively serve the poorest.
Future reforms are being supported through technical assistance under the recently approved Pilot
Emergency Labor Redeployment Project.
E.    Social Statistics
70.    Current situation: The ability to produce statistics needed for design, implementation and
evaluation of economic and social policy in BH has been damaged by the war and transition. Three,
essentially new, institutions are formally responsible for statistics in the country: two Entity level institutes
[(Federation Institute of Statistics (FIS) and the Republika Srpska Institute of Statistics (RSIS)], and a State
level agency created in April 1998 (BH Agency for Statistics, BHAS). The FIS has been built from the
prewar Sarajevo Regional Office of the Federal Statistical Institute and retains knowledge, some survey
skills, materials, and infrastructure from before the war. About ninety percent of their staff are new and
have been trained by the staff remaining from before the war. The RSIS is less well situated in that they
were created from scratch. These two institutes essentially function independently of each other and the
State statistical agency's formal role is to collate data from the two Entity level offices and create State
level data and reports. They are also responsible for international coordination.
71.    One area that has been especially hard hit by the war is that of data collection at the household
level. Prior to the war, the country carried out two surveys, an Income and Expenditure Survey and an
Agricultural Survey. At present, no household survey of any sort is being carried out in the territory of
BH. The lack of household level data is a serious one. While macro level data can provide some insighlt
into overall welfare levels in the country, they do so only in a limited fashion and they permit little, if any,
assessment of the impact of public spending and government programs. Representative household level
data can provide information on, inter alia: (i) the distribution of income and consumption, and the share of
the population living in poverty; (ii) the characteristics of those living in poverty and the factors most
affecting poverty levels; (iii) the identity of those benefiting (and excluded) from public spending on social
protection and other social sector programs; and (iv) how households behave given different economic
" See Bisogno and Chong (op.cit); Gregson, Veterans'Programs in BH (World Bank, mimeo, 2000).



18
incentives. Without such data, information on welfare and the effective of government programs is
severely constrained.
72.   A precondition for carrying out surveys, however, is the existence of a useable sampling frame. At
present there is no sampling frame extant in BH that could be used to select samples for any household
surveys. Typically, sampling frames are created from a census. However, in BH, the last census was taken
in 1991. The war has resulted in a massive movement of the population, and a substantial redrawing of
administrative and political boundaries. BH has also received a large number of refugees from the other
republics in the former Yugoslavia. Much of the housing stock has been damaged or destroyed also, which
further complicates updating of maps and housing lists.
73.   Issues and reforms supported under SOSA C: The importance of household survey data for
developing social policy and a social protection system that will meet the objectives of protecting the
poorest has been recognized by Governments in both Entities. The Bank agreed to help in coordinating
assistance (both financial and technical) in this area and in identifying sources of financing and other
resources. Efforts have been focused not just on the availability of reliable information but also on
ensuring that the information is used when developing policy and determining spending priorities. The
authorities view the development of reliable data as a key element of their I-PRSP.
74.   The Bank is most interested in providing assistance for a Living Standards Measurement Study
Survey (LSMS), designed to measure welfare levels and the incidence of government spending. There is a
great deal of urgency in obtaining the data that an LSMS can generate. The present government and the
international donor community have and continue to invest enormous sums of money for assistance to the
population and basic services. No representative information exists to date to assess the effectiveness,
impact and/or targeting of such spending.
75.    The Bank also recognizes the need for additional surveys. Apart from an LSMS, the Statistical
Institutes in BH have identified two priority surveys. The first of these is a Labor Force Survey (LFS),
aimed primarily at looking at the composition of the labor force, economic activities and participation and
unemployment rates. This would be particularly useful to institute at such an early stage of the
privatization process. The World Bank has already agreed partially to support such a survey through an
Institutional Development Fund grant to the State statistical agency. The other survey identified by the
statistical institutes is an Income and Expenditure Survey (IES).
76.   A major issue in carrying out the surveys is establishing a sampling frame. While the FIS retains
the publications, computer files, and maps from the last census, the computer files are unusable and the
population counts cannot be used as measures of size for a sample design because of the great changes.
The cartography that exists, however, for both the Federation and the Republika Srpska, is composed of
high quality topographical maps that are in very good shape. Some maps from the previous census are
missing, but this is a small percentage. The existence of these maps makes the updating of the sample
frame and the selection of new samples easier.
77.   To create a proper sampling frame, it has been agreed that municipalities will be selected (using
probability proportional to size), and a full enumeration made of the selected municipalities. From this
process, a master sample would be selected for the LSMS, LFS and IES. The master sample is expected to
be ready in early 2001, and satisfactory progress on developing this is a condition of the SOSAC.
78.   Also under the SOSAC-supported program, the statistical agencies in each Entity and at the State
level have signed an Open Access Data Agreement, which will give local researchers and the international



19
community full access to unit record data as it becomes available. This is an important step, as such data
has not previously been made available by the public sector, and should contribute to more informed and
open discussion of living standards issues in BH.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
(a)    Rationale for Bank Involvement
79.   A new CAS for BH (Report no. 20592-BIH) was presented to the Bank's Board in May 2000.
Consistent with the Government's own draft Economic Development Strategy (EDS), the CAS emphasizes
four broad development priorities, which form the basis of the reform agenda the government will need to
tackle over the next several years: (i) strengthening governance; (ii) fostering private sector led growth; (iii)
building social sustainability; and (iv) completing reconstruction. The overarching objective of the
program is to reduce poverty in the most effective manner by increasing social wellbeing, and supporting
an improved framework for increased incomes and opportunities. It also places emphasis on strengthening
institutions to manage the transition from reconstruction to sustainable recovery. The proposed operation is
therefore at the heart of the Bank's overall strategy and program rationale in BH. This in turn supports the
Govemments' EDS and I-PRSP programs.
80.   While the Bank had viewed the issues covered under SOSAC as important policy areas for some
time, it was not clear at the start of preparation if these priorities were shared by local counterparts, both
inside and outside Government. A key step in assessing this was the December 1999 inter-Entity workshop
held in Sarajevo and hosted by the Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees in FBH and
Ministry of Veterans, War Casualties and Labor Affairs in RS. This included a wide cross-section of
public officials from both Entities (from Deputy Prime Minister level to municipal CSW employees), local
and intemational NGOs, academics, trade unions, pensioners' associations, other members of civil society,
and donors. The objective of the workshop was to define the parameters of the SOSAC policy agenda, as
well as the medium term policy issues which would require future reforms and might be supported by the
Bank and others in subsequent operations. The workshop discussed both crosscutting themes (e.g., impact
of privatization; appropriate roles of different levels of Government), as well as sub-sectoral issues (labor
markets; social assistance; pensions). The overall conclusions of the Working Groups gave the main
parameters within which the SOSAC policy agenda, and medium term reform objectives outlined in the
LDP, were further refined"2. In the case of labor legislation work in particular, this has been followed b,y
intensive work with local counterparts in the Labor Legislation Commission in FBH and Working Group in
RS to develop appropriate packages of legislative reforms, including close consultation with trade unions,
the ILO and OHR. In the case of social protection, counterparts have been members of the Social
Protection Commission/Working Group.
81.   The SOSAC can be viewed as initiating a process of change, by supporting institutional
arrangements that will allow for incremental improvements in different areas of social policy over a 5-1 0
year period. It is important to view the operation within the longer-term Bank strategy in BH, looking both
backwards and forwards. On the one hand, the operation will seek to build on the fundamental reforms
supported under PFSACI and II, in particular in areas such as budgetary mechanisms and policy. The
proposed SOSAC seeks to dovetail on a number of specific areas in PFSACH, such as the rollout and
refinement of budget framework papers into the social protection sector. Equally, it is proposed that
12 See Proceedings of Vogosca workshop on Social Protection and Labor Market Reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina
(January 2000)



20
SOSAC deliberately minimize policy conditionality in fields where PFSACII has detailed coverage already
(e.g., pensions). Just as importantly, the SOSAC should support an improved enabling environment for
private investment and employment growth. The intention is to follow the first SOSAC with a second and
larger SOSAC which deepens reforms in areas under SOSACI, and broadens the social policy agenda to
certain key areas where dialogue has been less intensive to date and progress is likely to be slower (e.g.,
veterans benefits). This strategy is elaborated in the new CAS.
82.   The SOSAC is to be accompanied by a small technical assistance credit, the SOTAC, for US$3.55
million equivalent, which was approved by the Bank's Board in December 2000. The objective of the
companion credit is to strengthen the policy and institutional framework being supported by SOSAC, and
enable key steps to be taken which would be required for progress towards a SOSACII. The use of
companion TA credits for social policy adjustment loans is increasingly standard throughout the ECA
region, and the BH authorities endorsed such an approach in future Bank adjustment lending during recent
CAS discussions. The SOTAC would help to provide continuity in the policy dialogue with govemments
in both Entities, so that there could be adequate support and monitoring of commitments made in the LDP
which will be implemented beyond the disbursement of SOSACI funds. More details on the components
and allocation of funds under the SOTAC are provided in Annex 6.
(b)    Benefits and Risks
83.   The main benefits of the proposed Credit would be: (i) it would help set the policy and institutional
framework for significantly improved social protection system in the medium term in BH. The current
fragmentation of policy making and institutional roles fundamentally undermines possibilities for
coherence in the social protection sector. This would be closely supported by the companion technical
assistance credit, which would provide capacity building and institutional strengthening for the relevant
ministries and policy makers in the sector; (ii) it would leverage significant reforms in the labor relations
framework, which would start the process of moving BH away from its inherited socialist labor market;
(iii) it would support initial steps in a much needed overhaul of cash benefits, in particular social assistance
and disability benefits; and (iv) it would leverage progress on development of representative survey data for
monitoring the impact of existing policies and providing the information base for policy development.
84.   The main risks associated with the proposed Credit are: (i) a number of the measures in the policy
agenda are politically unpopular with certain groups, and ongoing implementation will be challenging.
While it is not possible to mitigate this risk completely, the requirement of Parliamentary passage for the
key labor measures ensures that binding steps have already been taken and are unlikely to be reversed. The
authorities have shown increased ownership of reforms, as indicated by the policy agenda being a central
element of their first Economic Development Strategy, currently under preparation; and (ii) on the social
safety net parts of the policy agenda, the SOSAC supports initial steps in policy reform. There is a risk that
the commitments made will not be followed through on sufficiently, due to both technical and political
challenges. This risk is being mitigated in two main ways. First, the SOTAC will support the technical
side of the agenda through support for more detailed elaboration of implementation mechanisms for the
proposed reforms. At the same time, the Social Protection Strategies should be viewed as "living
documents" which will be further developed and refined over time. It was considered more important that
the framework and policy directions in initial strategies be owned by local counterparts than that the output
for SOSAC be a final product. Second, on the political front, the reforms proposed under SOSACI are
supported by different local groups within and outside Government, and will also require implementation to
justify the proposed SOSACII. They are also to be supported under the IMF SBA.



21
(c)    Coordination with the IMF
85.    There has been close coordination with IMF on different aspects of the policy agenda supported by
the proposed Credit. The IMF were active participants in the December 1999 workshop which helped to
define the SOSAC agenda, expressing strong support for the major directions'3. This cooperation has
continued with exchanges on the main benchmarks for social sectors on the extension of the IMF SBA.
This work will also continue in the context of preparation by Entity authorities of their I-PRSP.
(d)    Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision
86.    The overall program to be supported by the proposed Credit is outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 4), and the perfornance benchmarks are set out in the Policy Reforn Matrix
(Annex 5). As the proposed operation is single tranche disbursement, all conditions below have been met
prior to Board presentation. In addition, the LDP lays out commitments by State and Entity governments
for ongoing realization of the reform agenda. The specific conditions which have been met prior to Board
Presentation are:
A.     Social protection policy and institutionalframework
In the Federation:
 Approved Social Protection Expenditure Strategy for the period 2000-2003, as part of the overall
Budget Framework Paper, satisfactory to IDA: Government approved the Budget Framework Paper,
including Social Protection Expenditure Strategy section - October 31, 2000.
* Submission of draft Social Protection Strategy for the period 2000-2003, satisfactory to IDA: Submitted
to IDA on October 31, 2000.
In Republika Srpska:
* Approved Social Protection Expenditure Strategy for the period 2000-2003, as part of the overall
Budget Framework Paper, satisfactory to IDA: Budget Framework Paper was approved on August 5,
2000 and submitted to IDA with Minutes of Government session and detailed Social Protection matrix.
* Submission of draft Social Protection Strategy for the period 2000-2003, satisfactory to IDA: Submitted
to IDA on November 1, 2000.
B.     Labor market issues
In the Federation:
*  approval by Parliament of amendments to the Federation Labor Law, satisfactory to IDA"4: Law on
Amendments to the Labor Law was approved on July 31, 2000 by the House of Peoples, and on
August 2, 2000 by the House of Representative.
13 IMF - Staff papers presented at December 1999 workshop on Social Protection Reform in BH.
14 This includes amendments to: (i) provisions defining relation between Federation LL and other federal and cantonal laws and
agreements (including collective agreements); (ii) articles on wait lists, eliminating and with reduced compensation (ii) articles
on role of works councils in dismnissal; (iii) articles on hiring and termination of employment; (iv) articles on fixed-term
contracts; .(v) articles on discrimination in the labor market to strengthen protections against all forms of discrimination; and
(vi) articles on collective agreements, to ensure that non-signatories are not automatically covered by general or branch
agreements.



22
* adoption of a Law on Job Placement and Social Security of the Unemployed, in a manner satisfactory
to IDA'5: Approved by the Government in September 2000, andfinal version adopted on
December 20,2000.
In Republika Srpska:
*   approval by Parliament and adoption of a new Labor Law, in a manner satisfactory to IDA"6: A new
Labor Law was approved on October 24, 2000, with subsequent amendment on November 12, 2000 of
one article.
*   approval by Parliament and adoption of a new Law on Employment, in a manner satisfactory to IDA'7:
Approved by the Parliament on October 24, 2000.
C       Social protection programs
In the Federation:
*   relevant Ministry to submit a report on social assistance, satisfactory to IDA, outlining options for
improved social assistance, including financing mechanisms, targeting criteria, and benefit
administration: Submitted on November 3, 2000.
-   submission of a report on disability programs, satisfactory to IDA'8: Submitted on November 3, 2000.
In Republika Srpska:
*   relevant Ministry to submit a report on social assistance, satisfactory to IDA, outlining options for
improved social assistance, including financing mechanisms, targeting criteria, and benefit
administration: Submitted on November 8, 2000.
e   submission of a report on disability programs, satisfactory to IDA'9: Submitted on October 30, 2000.
" This includes: (i) reducing the length of unemployment benefit payment; (ii) reducing the replacement rate on unemployment
benefits to closer to regional averages; (iii) making benefit payments subject to available resources in Employment Fund; (iv)
eliminating the monopoly of public Employment Institutes on job placement activities; (v) introduction of appropriate legal
enactment to define the legal and administrative arrangements for the Federation Employment Institute; and (vi) promoting
pooling of resources across the entity.
16 This includes amendments to: (i) defining the relation between RS LL and other RS laws and agreements (e.g. collective
agreements); (ii) elimination of future wait lists; (iii) articles on hiring and termination of employment; (iv) simplified
provisions on termination of employment; (v) more flexible articles on fixed-term employment; (vi) elimination of the monopoly
of the Employment Institute on job placement activities; (vii) articles on discrimination in the labor market to strengthen
protections against all forms of discriminations; and (viii) articles on collective agreements, to ensure that non-signatories are
not automatically covered by general or branch agreements.
17 This includes new provisions on: (i) reducing the length of unemployment benefit; (ii) reducing the replacement rate on
unemployment benefits to closer to regional averages; and (iii) making benefit entitlements subject to available resources in the
Fund.
18 This should outline: (i) types of disability benefits available under civilian and veterans' programs; including description of
financing sources; (ii) total numbers of disabled in entity; how many receive different types of disability benefits - including
families of deceased disabled -; total expenditure by disability benefit type; and average benefit per type; and (iii) agreed TOR
for TA on disability categorization and assessment criteria in disability programs.
19 This should outline: (i) types of disability benefits available under civilian and veterans' programs; including description of
financing sources; (ii) total numbers of disabled in entity; how many receive different types of disability benefits - including
families of deceased disabled -; total expenditure by disability benefit type; and average benefit per type; and (iii) agreed TOR
for TA on disability categorization and assessment criteria in disability programs



23
D.    Social statistics
In the Federation:
*  establishment of household survey team in the Statistical Institute, including staff dedicated to
development of a sampling frame: Completed, with verification letter submitted to IDA on
September 28, 2000.
*  progress, satisfactory to IDA, on completion of a technical plan for creating master sample: IDA
statistics team has verified adequate progress.
*  approval by Statistical Institute of an Open Access Data Agreement for household survey results:
Agreed with by FBH Statistical Institute and Open Access Data Agreement was signed on October 30,
2000.
In Republika Srpska:
*  establishment of household survey team in the Statistical Institute, including staff dedicated to
development of a sampling frame: Completed, with verification letter submitted to IDA on
September 29, 2000.
*  progress, satisfactory to IDA, on completion of a technical plan for creating master sample: IDA
statistics team has verified adequate progress.
*  approval by Statistical Institute of an Open Access Data Agreement for household survey results:
Agreed with by RS Statistical Institute and Open Access Data Agreement was signed on October 30,
2000.
(e)    Effectiveness Condition
In the Federation and in Republika Srpska:
87.   A Subsidiary Credit Agreement with conditions satisfactory to IDA has been executed by each
Entity MOF with the State MFTER.
(f)   Implementation
88.   The State MFTER would be responsible for overall administration of the Credit on behalf of BH,
the Borrower. Each Entity's Ministry of Finance would be responsible for administering the pre-allocated
funds from the Credit. In terms of the further work on the substantive agenda to be supported by SOSAC,
Social Protection Commission/Working Group in each Entity would act as technical counterparts in
development of the policy agenda. In the labor area, the Commission on Labor Legislation Reform would
continue to act as counterpart in the Federation, as would the Working Group on Labor Legislation Reform
in RS.
89.   Implementation of the policy program would be monitored by the Social Protection Commissions
(SPCs) in each Entity, which would coordinate with one another and the State MFTER. The SPCs would
act as the institutional focus for ensuring that policy statements and other strategic documents are put into
practice. They would also provide continuity in the policy dialogue with the Bank and other donors on
social protection issues, in particular for the Bank on SOTAC and during preparation of SOSACII. The
SPCs would also take the lead in subsequent budget cycles on coordinating the discussions and
recommendations of social protection actors from different agencies in updating and revising Social
Protection Expenditure Strategies.



24
90.   An important question with respect to the SPCs would be their relation to the existing Social Policy
Task Force (SPTF) and with NGOs and other actors. SPCs would predominantly be Government officials,
of Assistant Minister rank or equivalent, who might invite the participation of social protection experts -
local or international - as they saw fit. They would act as a link to senior policy makers in a way that the
SPTF is not intended to, given its inter-Entity composition and wider civil society participation. Through
their direct links to senior policy makers, the risk of politically unfeasible, purely technocratic reform
proposals will be reduced. In addition, SPCs would have a wider sectoral coverage across all social
protection issues, including labor market issues, which is not the mandate of the SPTF, which focuses more
narrowly on social assistance and social services questions.
91.   From the Bank's side, the intention is that implementation of the SOSAC agenda will not end with
disbursement of the single tranche. This is reflected in the LDP (see Annex 4), which sees the SOSAC as
the first step of a broader and longer term reform agenda to which Govemments in both Entities have
committed. In particular, the Bank will continue to work in a broadly participatory way with a wide range
of local actors as it supports the Govemments in refining and implementing their reforms, and will continue
to engage the Govemments though the SOTAC technical assistance and capacity building activities, and
through preparation of SOSACH.
(g)    Financial Arrangements
92.   The Credit would be disbursed in one tranche to the Deposit Account of the State at the Central
Bank of BH. The entire amount of all disbursements would be transferred from the State Deposit Account
to the accounts of the Entities in the Central Bank. Fund release would depend on satisfactory review by
IDA of the implementation of the adjustment program as a whole, and the fulfillment of the tranche
conditions.
93.   In terms of financial monitoring, the Bank has been developing new guidelines on financial
management requirements in adjustment operations, which are to apply to the proposed Credit. Through
these new guidelines, the Bank will complement its increased emphasis on borrower public financial
management in its analytic work and lending program with stronger reporting and auditing arrangements
over the disbursements of adjustment loan proceeds. These controls are not intended to restrict or prescribe
the uses to which adjustment loan proceeds funds may be applied by borrowers. They are rather intended
to provide assurance that Bank funds have arrived at their intended destination, have been used in the first
instance for their intended purpose of providing balance of payments and fiscal support, and will be subject
to the borrower processes for managing public resources which are known to and can be reviewed by both
the Bank and the Fund.
94.    Specifically, the Bank would:
*  Continue the present arrangements whereby disbursements of adjustment loan proceeds are made into a
dedicated Deposit Account opened by the Borrower in its central bank;
*  Agree with the Borrower during project preparation, and record in the project documentation, specific
details of the govemment Bank account to which the local currency equivalent of the loan proceeds will
be credited, as well as the timing and process of doing so. The account will be one which is subject to
budget control;



25
* Agree with the Borrower during project preparation, and record in the project documentation, the use
or uses to which the borrower intends to apply the loan proceeds in foreign exchange20;
* Receive from the Borrower regular reports on receipts into and disbursements from the dedicated
Deposit Account, and review their consistency with agreements recorded during project preparation;
and
* Exercise its right to receive audit reports on the Deposit Account.
95.   In line with standard IDA terms for BH, the proceeds of the Credit would be allocated two thirds to
FBH and one third to RS, or SDR10.2 million and SDR5.1 million, respectively. This would be managed
through sub-credit agreements between the State MFTER and the MOF of each Entity.
96.    The Closing Date for the project would be May 31, 2001.
(h)    Poverty Implications
97.    The proposed SOSAC should have an important effect on poverty alleviation in BH, primarily
through creation of a more supportive environment for creation of productive employment opportunities.
The existing levels of unemployment in BH are not sustainable if there is to be a vibrant formal sector,
which provides decent wages, and generates adequate tax revenue to support priority public expenditures.
Although many of the registered unemployed have income-generating informal sector activities, the best
data available indicate that they remain on average much more likely to live in poverty, and that having a
formal sector job is the most assured way for households to avoid or rise out of poverty.
98.    The operation should also contribute in a more targeted manner to alleviate poverty, through
supporting the policy and institutional framework and programs for more effective social protection
systems in both Entities. Available poverty data suggest that variations in living standards between and
within Entities are considerable, with the poverty headcount in the RS more than twice that of the
Federation, and poverty rates in some cantons within the Federation several times higher that in others.
There is therefore a strong case for partial equalization of basic social assistance being supported under the
operation. While ideally this should also happen across Entities as well as within them, this is not judged
by local counterparts to be feasible at this point. The work that has been initiated under SOSAC on
disability programs should also support a process of better targeting of resources within selected programs,
so that the most vulnerable within groups of special need receive adequate social protection.
99.    Finally, the proposed operation should have a major longer run impact on the ability of
Government to develop and monitor policies in a manner that is better focused on poverty reduction
objectives, by supporting critical steps in development of household survey and administrative data.
Currently large amounts of public resources are spent on transfers to those who are not on average poor
(e.g., veterans). Equally, the poverty alleviation effect of safety net programs on those who are in most
need is very limited in most cases, due to poor targeting of transfers, and inequitable financing mechanisms.
Regular and representative survey data will at least quantify these problems in the current safety net, and
allow policy makers to simulate the effects on poverty of different proposed reforms. This should give
Govemment stronger arguments to convince the public of the need for and potential impact of safety net
reforms.
20 Examples of such uses are foreign currency debt service, other foreign currency payment obligations of the
government, or retention of the funds in foreign exchange reserves.



26
(i)    Environmental Impact
100.  The proposed project is not expected to result in any negative environmental impact. For the
purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it has been reviewed as a category C project, not requiring an
environmental assessment.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
101.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
January 18, 2001



27
ANNEX 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Actual                 Estimate                  Projected
Indicator                 1994    1995      1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2005
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product                      100      100      100      100      100      100 100 100                100      100
Agriculture                                 36       25      21        17      16        ..
Industry                                    26       27      26       28       29
Services                                   38       48       54       55       55
Total Consumption                                    131      117      104       99       91       88       85       83       78
Gross domestic investment (+ increase in stocks)      20       42       41       38       33       32       32       28       25
Gross domestic fixed investment                       12       35       36       33       29       28       29       25       23
Government investment                                 4      20       20       16       14       11       11        8        6
Private investment                           ..      15      22       21       22       20       21       21       20       19
Exports (GNFS)5                              15       20       24       28       34       34       34       34       35       36
Imports (GNFS)                               87       71       83       74       71       58       53       51       46      40
Gross domestic savings                               -31      -17       -4        1        9       12       15       17       22
Gross national savings'                       ..      10       15       11       11       17       16       18       18       21
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                     1254    1889    2734    3518    4054         4594    5441    6389    7239    9244
(US5 million at current pfices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)            ..       ..    640       820      920      990     1200    1430    1610    2040
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Grossdomesticproductatmarketprices                 20.8    69.2    29.5    13.0        10.0    15.0    14.0    10.0         5.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%. caiculated from 1995 prices)
Grossdomesticproductatmarketprices           ..      ..    66.9    28.2       12.1      9.5     14.4    13.4       9.5     4.5
Total consumption                           ..       ..    49.7    13.9        6.4      0.2     10.6      9.6      7.4     2.3
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)5                            194      381      658     1002    1367    1560    1835    2179    2533    3357
Merchandise FOB                           91      152      336      575      817      970    1156    1410    1671    2244
Imports (GNFS)b                           1085    1334    2278    2606    2864    2661         2899    3239    3332    3664
Merchandise FOB                          894     1082    1882    2333    2573    2399    2622    2932    3024    3339
Resource balance                          -891    -953   -1620    -1604   -1498   -1101    -1064    -1060    -799    -307
Net current transfers                      879    1002    1094        772      510      417      265      232      197       34
Current account balance                   -177    -193        94    -486    -372    -228        -522    -531    -439    -285
( Including official cu,rent & capital transfers)
Current account balance, incl current rrasfers  -177    -193    -748    -1060   -1098    -763   -882    -916    -689    -355
Net private foreign direct investment        0        0        0        0      100       60      125      175      200     200
Long-termloans(net)                       -258    -271       514       19      106      181      267      227      158       28
o/w: Multelateral & PC creditors        -119    -144      628      126      181      255      340      281      200       70
Other capital (net, icl. crroms&aommissions)  433   595    -365       558       80      475      138      178      156      126
Change in reservesd (- indicates incTease)   2     -131    -243       -91       85     489        -8      -50      -75      -69
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                -71.1   -50.4   -59.3   -45.6   -36.9   -24.0   -19.5   -16.6   -11.0    -3.3
Real annual growth rates ( YR87 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                    ..       ..   158.4    72.3    39.3       15.3     15.7    18.4    15.0        5.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)                    ..       ..    80.1     24.8      8.1      -9.5     6.1      8.5      0.2      1.4
(Continued)



Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate                  Projected
Indicator                1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2005
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices) g
Total expenditure                           ..       ..    65.2    50.8    53.3    48.8    45.1    43.9    41.3    34.8
Current revenues h                           ..    29.0    37.3    27.8    32.6    32.0    31.6    32.1          32.2    31.0
Current expenditures                        ..       ..   41.1    26.5    33.2    33.1    32.5    32.9    32.8    31.1
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)                  -3.9     1.3    -0.6    -1.1    -0.9    -0.8    -0.7    -0.1
Capital expenditure                                        24.1    24.3    20.1       15.7    12.6    11.0        8.5     3.8
Foreign financing                           ..       ..    28.0    23.0    20.7    16.8    13.5    11.9           9.1     3.9
Extra-budetery expenditure'                                 11.1     11.5    11.5    12.9    12.4    11.1        10.2      9.3
Monetarv indicators
M2/GDP                                    17.9    14.6    18.8    19.3    21.7    27.6    25.6
Growth ofM2(%)                               ..     8.5    95.9    52.3    31.3    37.4    10.2
Consumer price index (% change)
Federation (in KM terms)                         -4     -25       14       5        0        3        3        3        3
Republika Sirpska (DM/KM-based index)           21       17       -7       2        13       3        3        3        3
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Accrual base.
f Includes debt rescheduling & relief
g. Consolidated central government.
h. Includes official current grants, which are of small amounts.
i. Social funds in the Federation.
J. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." Anjncrease in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
k. Until mid-1998 prices were observed in YUD and converted into DM using the parallel market exchange rate.
Source: CAS dated 07/12/2000



ANNEX 2: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 
(Asof Dec. 31,2000)
USS Million
(Less Cancellations)
Fiscal
Loan No.   Year   Borrower                    Project                                      Loan      Undisbursed
Loan/Credits/ Grants
IBRD e
4038-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan A                               28.6          0.0
4039-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan B                              284.9          0.0
4040-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan C                              307 1          0.0
Total                                            620.6           0.0
Of which: Repaid                                  24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank                        595.7          0.0
TFBH v (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Recovery Credit                          45.0          0.0
TF-024031     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Farm Reconstruction                      20.0          0.0
TF-024032     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Water Supply                             20.0          0.0
TF-024033     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Transport                                35.0          0.7
TF-024034     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency District Heating                         20.0          0.0
TF-024035     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation                5.0          0.0
TF-024040     1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Education Reconstruction                  5.0          0.0
Total                                            150.0           0.7
IDA
2897-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Education Reconstruction                  5.0          0.0
2896-BOS      1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation                5.0          0.0
2902-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Housing Repair                           15.0          0.0
2903-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Power Reconstruction                     35.6          0.0
2904-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Public Works and Employment              10.0          0.4
2905-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Landmines Clearance                       7.5          0.3
2906-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration          7.5          0.3
2914-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Transition Assistance Credit                       90.0          0.0
N001-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee              10.0          0.0
N002-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives         7.0          0.3
N003-BOS      1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Essential Hospital Services                        15.0          1.6
N032-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Transport Reconstruction II                        39.0          1.6
N035-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Education Reconstruction It                        11.0          0.5
3028-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Reconstruction Assistance Project                  17.0          0.7
3029-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Natural Gas                              10.0          0.0
3070-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                         5.0          0.0
3071-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Power II                                           25.0          8.4
N040-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Forestry                                            7.0          5.7
3090-BOS      1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)           63.0          0.0
3191-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Local Development                                  15.0         14.2
3202-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Basic Health                                       10.0          8.9
3262-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Enterprise and Bank Privatization Project          50.0         24.5
3257-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Enterprise Export Facility Project                 12.0          9.8
3269-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Pilot Cultural Hentage Project (LIL)                4.0          3.1
3258-BOS      1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Second Public Finance (Structural Adjustment)      72.0         43.5
3351-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Education Development Project III                  10.6         10.3
3385-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Mostar Water and Sanitation                        12.0         12.0
3400-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Labor Redeployment                       15.0         15.0
Q2370-BOS    2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina      Trade and Transport Facilitation in SEE             0.2          0.2
3439-BOS      2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Social Sector Structural Adjustment Credit - TA    3.55         3.55
Total                                            589.0         164.8
Grand Total                                      739.0        165.5
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execubon,
which is updated twice yearty and drculated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
5/ Consolidabon Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became etteceve on June 14, 1996.
c/ Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 09/30/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval Company            Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1997/99     Bosnia Micro           0   0.27      0     0     0   0.27      0     0
1985 Energoinvest        7.25      0     0     0  7.25       0     0     0
1997 Enterprise Fund       0   1.68      0     0      0   0.73     0     0
1998 SEFAkova            1.72      0     0     0  1.72       0     0     0
1999 SEF Bosnalijek        0      0  1.85      0      0      0  1.85     0
1999 SEF Kopex           1.67      0     0     0  1.67       0     0      0
1998 SEFLignosper        1.88     0      0     0  1.63       0     0     0
1999 SEF Lijanovici      2.04     0      0     0  2.04       0     0     0
1997 Sarajevska          2.63     0      0     0  2.63       0     0     0
1977 TKACazin            3.01     0      0     0  3.01       0     0     0
1998 Wood Agency-AL    4.04       0      0     0      0      0     0     0
1998 Wood Inga           1.43     0      0     0  0.29       0     0     0
0 Wood Konjuh         2.04     0      0     0  1.81       0     0      0
0 WoodKozara          1.43     0      0     0   1.2       0     0     0
0 Wood Podgradci      1.02     0      0     0  0.84       0     0     0
1998 Wood Vrbas          1.43     0      0     0  0.29       0     0     0
Total Portfolio:       31.59   1.95   1.85     0 24.38      1  1.85      0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2001 SEFBosnalijek II    2300      0     0     0
Total Pending Conrnitment:    2300     0      0     0



31
ANNEX 3: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Social Sector Adjustment Credit
Identification Mission:                 September 1999
SOSAC design workshop:                  December 1999
ICM review:                             January 2000
Pre-Appraisal:                          April 2000
Appraisal departure:                    June 2000
Negotiations:                           September 2000
Board presentation:                     February 2001



32
ANNEX 4: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Social Sector Adjustment Credit
November 1, 2000
Mr. J. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H St. NW
Washington DC, 20433,
U.S.A.
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
As you are aware, BH has experienced continuing economic recovery and social stability since the
signing of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreement in December 1995. The reconstruction effort, financed in
large part through the support of the international community, has already yielded significant results, as
reflected in increased production and trade, restored services, and improved infrastructure. At the same
time, many people in BH continue to have low standards of living, with high unemployment, a partial and
unpredictable social safety net, and continued displacement of large numbers of people.
Spurred by donor-funded reconstruction, growth has remained strong. In tandem with good
macroeconomic performance, rnajor progress has been made in reconstruction during the last two years.
Implementation of the 1996-1999 Priority Reconstruction and Recovery Program (PRRP), has been largely
successful in rebuilding economic and social infrastructure and restarting economic activity. By the end of
this year, it is anticipated that road, telecom, power, water and education services, will be at or near prewar
availability levels. Though down from the very high postwar levels, GDP growth is estimated to have been
around 10 percent in 1999.
While strengthened institutions and policies have contributed to macro stability, substantial fragility
remains. In May 1998, we embarked on an ambitious economic reform program, supported by IDA
adjustment lending and an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA). We hope that the SBA will be converted to
a PRGF some time in 2001. The objectives of this program have been to create a unified economic space
and a functioning banking system; privatize and restructure enterprises; reshape the pension and health
systems; implement a simplified customs system; and liberalize the trade regime. Underlying these policies
is a macroeconomic stabilization program based on a currency board.
The most successful economic achievement over the last two years has been full establishment of
BH's Central Bank and launching of its new currency -- the Konvertibile Marka (KM), pegged to the
Deutsche Mark (DM). The KM has gained credibility throughout the country. Other achievements include
adoption of a liberal countrywide customs tariff regime. Barriers to the internal movement of people and
goods have been eliminated, and inter-Entity trade has increased substantially. On the fiscal side,
discipline has been maintained, with the 1999 budget deficit for the Federation held to about 1.3 percent of
GDP, and 3.5 percent in Republika Srpska (both financed by donors). Nevertheless, tax policy lacks



33
stability, harmonization between the Entities has taken time and remains incomplete, and tax evasion is
widespread.
BH's political institutions and relationships have slowly matured. The functioning of new State
institutions mandated by the Dayton Peace Agreement, and the cooperation between BH's two Entities
have improved over the last two years. Following countrywide elections in September 1998, the tri-partilte
State-level Presidency appointed a Council of Ministers (COM) which has managed government business.
In addition, other developments have helped consolidate the country's political framework, among them the
long-awaited arbitration of Brcko which resolved the last wartime boundary dispute.
Social Policy reforms:
Given relative economic and political stability in recent years, we feel that there must now be greaLter
focus on the social impact of growth and the ongoing transition. This is key to ensuring that growth is
poverty-reducing and inclusive, and so remains socially sustainable. Despite the growth of recent years,
there remain many poor and vulnerable households in BH, affected by lack of employment opportunities,
weaknesses in the social safety net, and factors specific to BH such as displacement. As in all countries.,
the primary source of support for all households should be availability of productive employment
opportunities. At the same time, not everyone is able to benefit equally from growth, and it is important to
improve the functioning and impact of the social safety net, so that limited resources are focused more on
those most in need. Improved poverty reduction for the social safety net is in turn reliant on better social
statistics, both survey-based and administrative data. To achieve these objectives, we need a fundamental
reorientation in social policy, in particular in the areas of labor market and social welfare policy, and social
statistics.
We realize that serious reform of social policy is a process which will take time and political
commitment to accomplish, but are committed to the reform process. Through the recently approved CAS
of the World Bank Group, we indicated our commitment to medium term labor market and social protection
reform through agreement on a sequenced program of adjustment and investment lending in these areas.
This includes the proposed SOSAC and its companion TA credit (SOTAC), a follow-up SOSACII which
would support more comprehensive reforms of social transfer programs, and a technical assistance credit
which would facilitate implementation of reforms in social insurance programs (in particular pensions and
health insurance). The SOSAC program supports reforms in labor and social protection policies which are
immediately feasible and needed most urgently. Just an importantly, it sets out the medium term policy
reform agenda in these areas for the period 2000-2003, and establishes the institutional and fiscal
framework for elaboration of concrete reformns in areas such as disability programs and social assistance,
for which implementation would be supported under SOSACII, the SOTAC and other programs. We also
emphasize that the policy agenda for SOSAC and medium term reforms was developed with substantial
inputs from civil society, in particular through a December 1999 inter-Entity conference in Sarajevo which
our respective ministries hosted to help define the social protection reform agenda.
The measures which we have recently taken in social policy reform, and which are supported by the
proposed SOSAC are outlined in detail below, and include:
*  reforming key labor legislation in order to promote a more flexible labor relations framework that will
stimulate growth of productive employment opportunities, while continuing to respect core labor
standards;
*  developing the policy directions and institutional framework for reform of the social protection system;
*  strengthening the official strategy for comnmunicating the goals of social policy reform to the public;



34
*  specifying options for reform of social assistance that would promote greater equity and protection of
the poorest; and
*  initiating reforms of the social statistics system, so that it can provide reliable and timely household
level and administrative data for living standards monitoring and policy development.
Promotingpoverty reducing economicpolicies:
A major challenge in the coming years is promoting development goals that aim at providing a better
life and greater opportunity for all Bosnians, as part of a politically stable and prosperous region linked to
Europe. Four years of war have been followed by four years of high dependence on external technical and
financial assistance. However, we recognize that BH must now assume greater direct responsibility for
development of a vibrant economy and society.
As a step toward greater self-sustainability, the BH government is now preparing its first Economic
Development Strategy (EDS) which will set out reform measures and priorities for the medium term.
While the strategy has only recently been initiated, it has been broadly discussed in BH and there has been
a substantial meeting of the minds on its key elements. In particular, we see the EDS as a major step in
bringing poverty reduction to the heart of economic policy in BH, and view it as a critical input to the
interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) which we hope to complete by mid-2001.
We have already prepared the framework EDS, and established an inter-Entity working group to
elaborate it. The group has recently produced a draft version of the EDS.
Social protection policy and institutionalframework:
We recognize that policy formulation is under-developed and uncoordinated across the social
sectors, a situation exacerbated by the devolution of most responsibilities in social assistance, health and
education. In social protection this has resulted in fragmented approaches to basic planning and
management, and limited policy prioritization. Dealing with these issues in BH is complicated by the
delineation of responsibilities of different levels of government in both Entities under the Dayton accords.
In the inmmediate post-war years, social protection policy was largely driven by ad hoc policy
making. The situation is reflected in the absence of a medium term fiscal expenditure framework for social
protection, which could act as a tool to promote the prioritization of short- and long-term measures, and of
their consideration within the context of the available resource envelope. In addition, there is no coherent
strategy for communicating the nature and objectives of reforms to the general public. However, the
stabilization of recent years has put the country in a position where a more typical policy and institutional
framework has become not only appropriate, but urgently needed.
In order to improve the current situation, it has been necessary to bring together the various actors in
the social protection system in policy and budgetary discussions. We have been doing this through two
main channels to date. First, since 1998 there has been an inter-Entity Social Policy Task Force (SPTF)
which meets regularly to discuss all aspects of social policy in BH. This comprises representatives from
relevant ministries, NGOs, academics, trade unions, and the international community. The SPTF has
played a major role in discussion of crosscutting issues in social policy in BH. The second more recent
initiative is the social protection Budget Framework Paper (BFP) discussions. This has drawn on
representatives from all relevant social policy ministries and the Ministry of Finance, as well as
representatives of pilot cantons taking part in the BFP exercise.



35
In order to address the current institutional and policy problems in social protection, and as part of
the program supported by the SOSAC, we have taken the following actions:
*  each Entity has established a Social Protection Commission/Working Group (SPC), which would act as
the key coordinating body to help reduce fragmentation of policy making in the social protection sector.
The Commissions have representation from labor, social welfare, veterans, pensions, employment
services, refugee/displaced persons, MOF, and health sectors;
*  the SPC in each Entity has developed a draft Social Protection Strategy for the period 2000-2003  We
view these strategies as providing for the first time an overall policy framework and directions for
reform of the social protection system in BH. They will be elaborated and refined under the overall
direction of the SPCs, with future implementation supported by SOSACII and other donor programs;
*  based on several workshops in recent months, each Entity has produced a Social Protection
Expenditure Strategy for the period 2001-2003, which is an integral part of the overall BFP, and will be
the guiding budget narrative document in preparation of the 2001 budgets for both Entities and pilot
cantons in FBH. They would also provide the framework for budget planning exercises in future years.
This is the first time that an exercise of this type has been done for the sector. The agreed SPES for
each Entity has recently been approved by the Government of each Entity;
*  the relevant public organs in both Entities have agreed to participate in a functional review of the social
protection sector, in order to assess where there are capacity development needs, and determine the
most appropriate institutional configuration for ensuring that the needs of the poor are addressed most
effectively. TOR for this task have been agreed during SOSAC preparation, and we plan to finance the
reviews from the proposed SOTAC; and
*  there is a large need to inform the public more effectively of the goals and likely outcomes of different
reforms. This need is nowhere stronger than in the social sectors, because of the direct impact of
reforms on all households. It also requires more intensive dialogue with social partners in the labor
market field. As part of this longer run effort to improve our public information and consultation, we
intend to design and implement a public information campaign on the nature and objectives of social
policy reforms. The TOR has been agreed for such an effort, and we plan to finance the campaign
design and implementation under the SOTAC.
Labor market legislation and policy:
BH presently has an unsustainably high level of unemployment. While it is difficult to get robust
estimates of unemployment, due to the large informal sector, official statistics give an indication of the
scale of the problem. Registered unemployment in the first half of 2000 was around 263,000 in the
Federation and 147,000 in Republika Srpska (around 40 percent of the estimated labor force in each
Entity). If workers on waiting lists are included in the estimates, the broad official rate of unemployment
increases to around 44 percent in the Federation, and almost 50 percent in the RS (wait lists are a
phenomenon of former Yugoslavia, where surplus workers are retained by enterprises, with entitlements in
principle to social security contributions and part payment of wages).
While a significant share of the registered unemployed may generate some income in the informal
sector, survey data suggest that the unemployed on average are living in difficult conditions, with poverty
rates between three and five times higher than for households where the head is employed. With the advent
of privatization, we are concerned that unemployment rates will increase in the short run, as enterprises are
restructured. This is likely to increase the share of the already-large informal sector in the economy.
The environment for creation of productive employment opportunities in the formal sector to date
has not been encouraging. Core labor legislation in both Entities promotes centralized and detailed control



36
of labor relations, reinforcing rigidities in the labor market, and creating unreasonable and unnecessary
obligations on employers. Tax rates on labor are high, discouraging hiring of new workers, and increasing
incentives for informality. The environment for SMEs is onerous and limits growth of small firms.
These typical features of transition economy labor relations are increased in the case of BH by a
number of specific features. These include: (i) the legacy of the war in terms of the existence and size of
waiting lists at many enterprises; (ii) remaining issues with respect to labor market discrimination; and (iii)
the strong residual welfare function of enterprises, which undermines their core objectives of productivity
and employment growth. This is more acute in former Yugoslav economies due to the long tradition of
socially-owned economic assets. Finally, the trade union movement in BH is strong, which increases the
challenges of balancing protections and entitlements of existing workers with the need to keep labor costs
under control and stimulate new employment.
In response to this, governments in both Entities have already taken steps to promote future labor
demand - steps which are important prior actions in support of the SOSAC reform agenda. These include:
*  a reduction in payroll taxes during 1999 and 2000, in order to stimulate formal sector labor demand.
There are plans for further gradual reductions in taxes on labor, though paying careful attention to the
fiscal and social consequences; and
*  perhaps most significantly, we have embarked on a major privatization program. While it is still in the
early stages of implementation, we see the program as the vehicle for a fundamental transformation of
the economy, which should lead to higher productivity, growth, and ultimately employment. However,
simply transforming ownership of enterprises is not likely to lead to desired productivity gains unless
other aspects of the incentive framework are improved.
The authorities have been actively engaged with the international conmmunity on many areas of the
labor market. This includes the privatization policy dialogue and lending agenda being pursued with IDA
and others such as USAID; initiatives on SME development with IFC and others such as EBRD; and
support of microfinance programs for self-employment, through the Local Initiatives Credit with IDA and a
range of initiatives with bilaterals.
As a key part of our efforts, we view labor legislation as critical to creating an employment-
generating policy environment. In both Entities, core labor legislation was passed in the 1 990s which
superceded the inherited Yugoslavian labor laws. However, it has become clear that the current labor laws
have not done enough to alter the basic philosophy of labor relations inherited from the socialist period.
This includes: (i) an unclear relationship between core labor legislation and other laws; (ii) unresolved
issues with respect to waiting lists, in particular unaffordable levels of compensation to wait listed workers
which place an unreasonable burden on firms; (iii) rigid hiring and firing provisions; (iv) unaffordable
entitlements upon dismissal; (v) rules for fixed-term contracts that are not considered suitable for a market
economy; and (vi) fiscally unsustainable unemployment benefit and active labor programs. Beyond these
priority areas are a range of other shortcomings, including an overly intrusive role for the Labor
Inspectorate; provisions which discriminate indirectly against women; and lack of flexibility for employers
to opt out of collective agreements to which they were not parties. We recognize the need to address these
deficiencies as a priority, in order to create labor market conditions which will be more conducive to job
creation. Given the current level of unemployment, we view this as of paramount social, economic and
political importance.
In recent months, there has been intensive work between the authorities in both Entities and the
international community which has led to reform of key labor legislation. Several key reforms are



37
supported under the SOSAC, and other measures requiring further analysis and reforms would be supported
under SOSACH. The recent work has been undertaken by the Labor Legislation Reform Commission in
FBH, which was established by Ministerial decree and includes representatives from the ministry, OHR,
ILO and the World Bank. In the RS, a Working Group on Labor Legislation Reform was established by
ministerial decree with similar membership. The priority reforms in both Entities which have been
introduced are intended not only to promote greater employment generation, but also to harmonize labor
standards in the two Entities to the extent possible, in order to promote free flow of workers and a single
economic space in BH. It is also stressed that the reforms continue to be consistent with international
standards, and BH's commitments under ILO conventions.
Key reforms have been approved in the core labor law in each Entity, and work is ongoing on a
final draft of a new Labor Law for the district of Brcko. In FBiH, this was done through a Law on
Amendments to the Labor Law, which amended around one third of the previous law. In the RS, this took
the form of a new labor code. The key reforms introduced include:
*  abolition of all wait lists, and substantial reductions in compensation for those terminated from wait
lists to levels better able to be afforded by firms. These are critical measures in making labor relations
in BH consistent with market economy principles, and ensuring that enterprises are not overwhelmed
by liabilities to wait-listed workers;
*  increased flexibility on conditions for entering into employment contracts, including freedom to enter
into fixed-term and oral employment contracts. These are particularly important measures in the period
of major labor market adjustment which will follow privatization;
less restrictive provisions on termination of employment contracts, including greater flexibility on the
circumstances in which workers can be dismissed, reduced compulsory notification periods prior to
termination, and simpler rules on collective dismissals;
*  less detailed regulation of all aspects of employment terms in the core labor legislation, with more
derogation to collective agreements, employment contracts and firm-level "rule books"; and
*  strengthening of non-discrimination provisions, an issue of particular importance in BH.
An additional area of concern in labor relations is the legal framework for conclusion of collective
agreements. To date, there is no overarching legal framework which regulates the conclusion of such
agreements, including who may legitimately be parties to them, their duration, and their impact on private
employers who are not parties to the agreement. In FBH, the Government and trade unions have recently
amended the General Collective Agreement, in order to limit the duration of the agreement to one year, and
provide that private sector employers who were not party to the agreements are not bound by it. This is an
important step in allowing future private and foreign investors to agree on the most suitable employment
terms with workforces, subject to respect for core labor standards. The RS is committed to similar reforms,
and the recently adopted labor law allows for the first time for employers not to be automatically covered
by general and branch collective agreements.
In addition to amendments to the labor code in each Entity, there have been significant amendments
to the laws governing the rights of the unemployed and the operations of the Employment Institutes which
administer public programs. Employment Institutes are active in both Entities which are responsible for
active and passive labor market programs, but there are structural problems with sustainability, and a need
to improve transparency and accountability in their operations. In FBH, the situation is complicated by the
existence of three Els (two Bosniak and one Croat), with the FBHEI functioning under an unclear legal
mandate. Currently, El programs are underfunded, so that both unemployment benefits and active labor
programs are ineffective. At the same time, the level of payroll tax needed to finance adequate programs is
beyond what would be desirable in the current environment of high labor taxes.



38
In order to address the fiscal sustainability issues, improve transparency, and bring programs for
the unemployed more in line with regional standards, both Entities have introduced as part of the SOSAC
program reforms to unemployment legislation, including:
*  abolishing the monopoly of Els in job mediation, allowing for private sector involvement;
*  substantial reductions in the maximum length of unemployment benefit entitlement;
*  significant reductions in the level of unemployment benefits, in order to bring revenues and
expenditures more into line; and
*  in FBH, simplification of the institutional structure, giving FBHEI a clear legal base for its operations.
Looking further ahead, trying to reconcile the current situation and future objectives will not be
possible without a fundamental assessment of the core functions of the Els, and the public sector's ability to
finance them. To this end, we have agreed on reviews of El programs, including measures to ensure that
their operations are carried out in a more transparent manner, in particular agreement on TOR for special
reviews of all four Els, which would be financed under the SOTAC. We plan that implementation of the
reconmmendations of these reviews will be part of the SOSACH agenda.
Cash Transfer Programs
The Governments of both Entities view social transfer programs as an important pillar of poverty
alleviation. Even with more pro-poor growth and effective employment generation, there will remain
significant numbers of people who do not feel the full benefits of growth. While the current system has
many programs, total public transfers are not allocated in a manner which alleviates poverty most
effectively. Improving the situation will require a fundamental reassessment of social transfer programs, so
that future spending patterns reallocate funds between programs, and between regions within each Entity,
so that the poorest are better provided for, whatever their geographical location or social group.
Social assistance - like many other social programs - has been in a state of crisis in BH in recent
years. In terms of the legal framework, however, to date there has not been the adjustment in entitlements
and focus on core objectives that could have been expected given the fiscal constraints and social needs.
This has led to a situation in many parts of BH where the credibility of the system has been undermined,
due to inability to deliver on policy commitments.
A key issue in BH is that the financing and implementation of social assistance is primarily the
responsibility of the local governments, while policy development is the responsibility of Entity
governments. As a result, there is wide variation in the effectiveness of social assistance, which depends
on the economic situation of each region, as well as the relative priority given to social protection by local
authorities. In the Federation, each canton is in principle responsible for determining the benefits which are
to be provided, and the share of responsibility between the canton and the municipal level. Although the
Federation-wide legal framework details the categories of beneficiaries, cantons must find the resources to
meet the entitlements. In Republika Srpska, responsibility for Child Protection is with the Children's Fund,
which promotes a sharing of risk across the Entity. In addition, there is a social solidarity fund, intended as
a form of equalization mechanism to protect the most vulnerable groups. However, it has been used to date
to finance pension and veterans' programs, rather than social assistance. Apart from these funds and social
institutions which are the responsibility of the Entity, social assistance remains the responsibility of the
municipality. As a result, levels of social assistance vary considerably across the Entity.



39
In order to improve the equity and impact of social assistance programs, it has been necessary to
develop reform proposals. These also feed into the overall Social Protection Strategy in each Entity. To
this end, social protection experts in each Entity have prepared reports which outline the main directions
for reforms of financing, targeting, administration, and entitlement structure of social assistance programs.
The objective of the proposed reforms is to improve the impact of social assistance programs for the poor,
no matter where they reside in each Entity. A central mechanism of social assistance reform is to promote
greater pooling of resources at the Entity level, so that there is greater scope for equalization of social
assistance spending in different regions. In a series of Government and donor workshops in 1999 and 2000,
there has been considerable support from all levels of government and civil society for such reforms. The
social assistance reform proposals would set the stage for considering reforms of the tax system that would
support greater pooling of revenues, and eventually for a more equitable social safety net in the two
Entities. In the coming year, we intend to elaborate the reform proposals for social assistance into more
concrete measures - with the assistance of the international community, including under SOTAC- and the
necessary legislative and administrative reforms would be supported as key policy actions under SOSACII.
With respect to other social transfer programs, disability programs are an area of social protection
policy which we view as of high importance, given the vulnerability of many program beneficiaries and the
legacy of the conflict in BH. However, to date is has been difficult to get a comprehensive view of the
coverage and impact of disability programs, as programs are administered by different institutions, and it is
unclear which beneficiaries have entitlements to other benefits. In addition, the current system of disability
benefits is characterized by overly complex categorization of beneficiaries, which results in beneficiaries
whose ability to work is not impaired by international standards, and consequently less funds being
available for those with serious disabilities.
In order to introduce greater coherence into the overall system of social transfers, it has been
necessary to consolidate basic infornation on disability programs. We have therefore prepared a detailed
report for each Entity that outlines entitlements under various disability programs, including data on
beneficiaries and expenditures under different disability programs. We plan that the analytical work already
undertaken under SOSAC, combined with further technical support under SOTAC, will allow both Entities
to develop concrete reforms of disability programs which could be supported under SOSACI1. This should
help move towards a more streamlined disability system, which is coherently linked to other social transfer
programs. It should also support evolution of the disability system into one that focuses resources on the
most seriously disabled who are not able to support themselves, and in this way improve the poverty
reduction impact of disability programs.
In the area of pensions, the LDP for the PFSACII outlined a detailed reform effort that is
underway, in particular institutional reform in FBH, and bringing Pension Fund finances into balance as
soon as possible. In addition to the measures under PFSACII, we have taken important steps recently to
improve management of the pension system statewide through inter-Entity efforts on exchange of data
between the three pension funds. Over recent months, there has been intensive dialogue between the three
pension funds, and an agreement has now been signed to exchange contributor history information. This
will enable the RS and Mostar PFs to calculate pensions on the basis of actual contributions, which they
have not been able to do since the war. Over the medium term, we see needs for further reform of the
pension system, and plan to address these as part of the policy agenda under SOSACII.
A central element of cash transfer programs in BH is veterans' benefits. In both Entities, these
payments account for substantial shares of the Entity budget. Veterans' programs are characterized by the
same problems as general disability programs - in particular benefit payment to those with minor injuries -
but the situation is more acute, due to benefit levels which are higher than civilian disability benefits. We



40
recognize that the current shares of public spending on veterans' benefits are not sustainable, and that the
medium term structure of transfer spending will allocate less to these programs, while ensuring that those
with more serious disabilities as a result of their military service are provided for in an appropriate manner.
At the same time, this is an area where there will need to be gradual reform, taking account of the sensitive
political and social issues involved. Under the recently-approved Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment
Project, there will be technical assistance to veterans' administrations in both Entities which should
contribute to elaboration of needed reforms. In addition, veterans' ministries have been active participants
in the SPES exercise for the 2001 budget, and contributed to development of the overall Social Protection
Strategy for 2000-2003. Looking forward, we anticipate that the policy recomnmendations coming out of
further policy dialogue and technical assistance would be support formulation of policy conditionality
under SOSACII, in particular efforts to harmonize disability assessment mechanisms between military and
civilian programs, bring the levels of civilian and military benefits closer, and focusing veterans' spending
on those ex-soldiers with the most serious injuries.
Social Statistics:
The ability to produce statistics needed for design, implementation and evaluation of economic and
social policy in BH has been damaged by the war and transition. Three institutions are formally
responsible for statistics in the country - two Entity level institutes [Federation Institute of Statistics (FIS)
and the Republika Srpska Institute of Statistics (RSIS)], and a State level agency created in April 1998 (BH
Agency for Statistics, BHAS). The FIS has been built from the prewar Sarajevo Regional Office of the
Federal Statistical Institute and retains knowledge, some survey skills, material such as maps, and
infrastructure from before the war. The RSIS is less well situated in that it was created from scratch.
One area that has been especially hard hit by the war is that of data collection at the household level.
At present, no household survey of any sort is being carried out in the territory of BH. The lack of
household level data is a serious one. While macro level data can provide some insight into overall welfare
levels in the country, they do so only in a limited fashion and permit little assessment of the impact of
public spending and govemment programs. Representative household level data is needed to provide
information on: (i) the distribution of income and consumption, and the share of the population living in
poverty; (ii) the characteristics of those living in poverty and the factors most affecting poverty levels;
(iii) the identity of those benefiting (and excluded) from public spending on social protection and other
programs; and (iv) how households behave given different economic incentives. Without such data,
information on welfare and the effective of government programs is severely constrained.
In addition to absence of household level data, there are serious problems with administrative
statistics. Data on the number and breakdown of beneficiaries of cash transfer programs, as well as basic
expenditure data, is often not available at all, not available in a timely manner, or not comparable (due to
inconsistent definitions). As a result, development and implementation of social policy is done on the basis
of limited information. This makes it difficult to monitor the incidence of public expenditure, as there is
little exchange of infornation across different cash transfer programs.
There is a strong commitment on the part of the authorities to remedying this situation. We view the
development of reliable data as a key element of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Since early
1999, the Government and statistical agencies have been engaged in active dialogue and partnerships with
the international community, building on long-term support from the Government of Sweden. This has
been supported by an Institutional Development Fund grant from the World Bank.
Collaboration with the international community has resulted in development of a program for
improving social statistics in BH, focused primarily on generating representative household and labor force



41
survey data. A critical first step has been work to develop a sampling frame. This would be followed by
design and implementation of a Living Standards Measurement Survey, a Labor Force Survey, and an
Income and Expenditure Survey. Efforts will focus not just on the availability of reliable infornation, but
also on ensuring that the information is used when developing policy and determining spending priorities.
The authorities in both Entities have established teams to design and implement the surveys, and are
committed to an open access policy on survey results once they are available. To this end, an Open Access
Data Agreement has been approved by each Entity statistical institute.
We hope that the above elaboration of the program for social policy reform has clearly expressed
our commitment to improving the welfare of households throughout BH, by creating a more conducive
environment for creation of productive employment opportunities, improving the efficiency and impact on
the poorest of the social safety net, and supporting reforns in social statistics which will allow for
significantly improved living standards monitoring. The proposed SOSAC agenda is an initial step in what
we view as a fundamental and ongoing reform of labor market and social protection policies in BH. This in
turn will contribute to poverty-reducing growth. Over the medium term, we hope to realize more fully the
goals of this ambitious agenda, in particular a coherent and fiscally responsible overhaul of existing cash
transfer programs to be supported under the proposed SOSACH. The continued contribution of the World
Bank and the rest of the international community is an essential part of this challenging task.
Mr. Mlrsad Kurtovic
Minister
Foreign Trade and Economic Reladons
Bosnia and Heomegovina
Prime Minister
Federation of BH
Mr.ra       v                                  Mr. ovak K               *
Deputy Prim                                    Minister of Finance
and Minister of Finance                          Republika Srpska
Faderation of BH



ANNEX 5: POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Social Sector Adjustment Credit
Adequate               Stable              In the Federation and RS:     At the State level in the Federaton and RS:
macroeconomic          macroeconomic
framework              framework consistent  Rapid post-conflict growth  Maintain adequate macroeconomic framework
with employment     with inflation under control;
growth              stable exchange regime through
cuTrency board.
Social protection      Develop coherent    In the Federation and RS:    In the Federation and RS:
policy and institutional  social protection
frameworks             strategy and        Inter-Entity I-PRSP Working    Submission of draft Social Protection Strategy for period 2000-2003, satisfactory to IDA.
institutional       Group formned.
arrangements                                     Approval of Social Protection Expenditure Strategy for the period 2000-2003 as part of its
consistent with     Establishment of inter-      budget framework paper, satisfactory to IDA.
financing constraints.  Ministerial Social Protection
Commission/Working Group to  Submission of framework Economic Development Strategy satisfactory to IDA with primary
Communicate         develop Social Protection    focus on poverty reduction.
objectives of social    Strategy for period 2000-2003.
policy reform to                                 Relevant ministries to finalize TOR satisfactory to IDA for functional review of
public.             Formation and regular meetings  ministries/agencies involved in social protection at Entity and sub-Entity levels.
of inter-Entity Social Policy
Task Force.                  Agreed TOR for public information campaign on social protection and labor market reforms.
Labor Market reforms  Promoting policy     In the Federation:           In the Federation:
framework for labor
markets conducive to  Establishment of Commission    *   Approval by Parliament of amendments to the Federation Labor Law, satisfactory to
formal sector       for Reform of Labor              IDA.
employment          Legislation, and agreed action    [Note: this would include, at a minimum, amendments of the following:
generation and      plan for amendment of key        - revision of Article 143 (provisions on wait lists) in line with Commission proposals;
increased investment.  laws.                          - provisions defining relation between Federation LL and other federal and cantonal laws
and agreements (including collective agreements);
Promoting           Submission of draft Law on       - articles on the role of works councils in dismissal;
transparent         Amendments to Labor Law and      - articles on termination of employment of excess staff,
institutional       amendments to draft Law on       - articles related to fixed-term employment contracts and other hiring provisions to facilitate
framework for       Job Placement submitted by         hiring of labor;
implementation of   Commission to Govemment          --articles on discrimination in the labor market to strengthen protections against all forms of
labor market policies.  and Parliament.                discrimination; and
articles on collective agreements.]
Amendment of General



43
Collective Agreement to     * Adoption of Law on Job Placement and Social Security of the Unemployed, satisfactory
exclude private sector and linmit  to IDA.
duration of GCA to one year.    [Note: This would include:
- substantially reducing the length of unemployment benefit payment;
- reducing the replacement rate on unemployment bencfits to closer to regional averages;
- making benefit payments subject to available resources in Employment Fund;
- eliminating the monopoly of public Employment Institutes on job placement activities;
- introduction of appropriate definition of the legal and administrative arrangements for
employment services within FBiH;
- promoting pooling of resources across the Entity.]
Agreement on TOR for special review of Federation, State, and Mostar Els.
In the RS:                  In the RS:
Establishment of Working    *   Approval by Parliament and adoption of new Labor Law, satisfactory to IDA.
Group for Reform of Labor        [Note: This would include, at a minimum:
Legislation.                    - defining relation between Labor Law and other RS laws and agreements;
Submission of new Labor Law     - elimination of future wait lists;
and Law on Employment to         - provision for minimal severance provisions for both wait listed and other workers;
Government and Parliament.       - simplified provisions on termination of employment;
- more flexible articles on fixed-term employment and other hiring provisions to facilitate
hiring of labor;
- elimination of the monopoly of the Employment Institute on job placement activities;
--articles on discrimination in the labor market to strengthen protections against all forms of
discriminations; and
--articles on collective agreements.]
*   Approval by Parliament and adoption of new Law on Employment, satisfactory to IDA.
[Note; This would include:
- reducing the length of unemployment benefit payment;
- reducing the replacement rate on unemployment benefits to closer to regional averages;
- making benefit payments subject to available resources in the Employment Fund.]
*   Agreement on TOR for special review of RS El.



44
Social Protection        Improve targeting      In the Federation and RS:      In the Federation and RS:
and sustainability of
social assistance     Formation and regular meetings  Submission of report on social assistance, satisfactory to IDA, with options for improved
programs.             of inter-Entity Social Policy   social assistance, including financing mechanisms, targeting criteria, and benefit
Task Force.                    administration.
Promote pooling of
revenues for social   Agreement for data exchange
assistance.           between Pension Funds           Relevant ministerial approval for rollout of standardized client registries in all CSW, including
concluded.                     costing and proposed financing sources.
Facilitate
participation of non-   In the RS:
state sector in social
welfare programs.     Formation of WG to review use
of solidarity funds.
Disability programs      Increase coherence of                                 In the Federation and RS:
disability programs,
in order to improve                                   Submission of report on disability programs, satisfactory to IDA.
impact for most
disabled and ensure
consistent treatment                                  [Note: This should outline:
of disabled across                                      (i) types of disability benefits available under civilian and veterans' programs; including
programs.                                                  description of financing sources and cross-entitlement provisions between benefits;
(ii) total numbers of disabled in Entity; how many receive different types of disability benefits
- including families of deceased disabled -; total expenditure by disability benefit type; and
average benefit per type; and
(iii) agreed TOR for TA on disability categorization and assessment criteria in disability
programs.]
Social Statistics        Strengthen legal and    At the State level:           In the Federation and RS:
institutional
framework for         Establishment of BH Agency      (i) Establishment of a household survey team in each Entity SA, including staff dedicated to
conducting            for Statistics.                 development of a sampling frame;
representative
household surveys to   Establishment of a household    (ii) Progress satisfactory to the Bank on technical plan for creating master sample;
improve living        survey coordination team
standards monitoring   consisting of one representative   (iii) Approval by Entity Statistical Institutes of Open Access Data Agreement on household
and inform policy     from each Entity statistical    surveys;
development.          institute and the State statistical
agency.                        (iv) Establishment of a data users committee with representatives from relevant ministries



ANNEX 6: OUTLINE OF SOCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (SOTAC)
The following outlines components of the SOTAC. The objective of the SOTAC is to provide
technical assistance and other capacity building in areas which are key to the policy agenda to be
supported by both SOSACI and SOSACII, and will also enable a more continuity in the policy dialogue
with the authorities. Where feasible, the aim will be to coordinate activities closely between Entities,
e.g., common procurement of consultancy which would be implemented in both Entities. This should
support the general objective of promoting harmonization between the different systems. The project
would be implemented over approximately 2 years.
Main proposed components for SOTAC:
* Client registries for Centers for Social Work. This has been identified as a clear priority by social
welfare officials in both Entities. While considerable work has already been done on developing
programs for client registries, there are a range of needs in order to put the system in place, and
ensure that it is effective, including minor equipment/networking, training of staff in use of systems,
review of the existing database to ensure that it covers informational needs without putting
unnecessary demands on CSW staff etc.
* NGO/CSW Innovation Activities: The objective of this fund would be to support innovative
collaborations between local NGOs and CSWs, e.g., on contracting out of service provision for
particular services such as home-based elderly care. The component would review joint funding
applications from CSW and local NGOs, and finance service provider contracts with the NGOs for
successful applicants, who would be assessed according to agreed criteria.
* Technical Assistance on Social Protection: This would support a number of areas, including
several where TOR will have been agreed under SOSACI, and implementation will be carried out
between SOSACI and SOSACII. The TA is also seen as crucial for preparatory work for SOSACII.
(i)  Functional review of Social Protection in both Entities. This would not only review existing roles
and responsibilities across the social protection sector, but also aim to identify key skills
development and institutional strengthening needs in the main ministries and agencies involved in
social protection. This work would be coordinated with UK DFID.
(ii)  Public information campaigns on objectives and nature of labor market and social protection
reforms: It is clear from SOSAC preparation that the public and social partners frequently are
uninformed on the content of reforns, and rarely understand the objectives. This leads to
situations where misinformation is given to the public through various channels, and support for
reforms is undermined. SOTAC would provide support for design and implementation of public
information campaign(s) on labor market and social protection reforms.
(iii) Social assistance technical assistance:   This would support technical assistance in a range of
areas associated with social assistance including operation of future Entity-level equalization
funds; assessment and improvement of procedures in CSW; assessment of existing social work
methods, which are frequently outdated by European standards etc.
(iv) Special reviews of Employment Institutes: This would support special reviews of all Employment
Institutes in BH (State, Federation, Mostar and RS).



46
(v)  Technical Assistance on disability programs: The current disability programs are characterized by
limited information on beneficiary eligibility across different programs, over complex
categorization etc. Equally, there is an over-reliance in many cases on institutional care, when
other forms of care would be more effective and less costly. This sub-component would support
technical assistance and workshops to expose staff to international practice, and support reforms in
the system of disability in BH.
*  Labor legislation and labor market technical assistance: This would finance a range of technical
assistance needs in all areas of the labor relations framework, including labor legislation, the
institutional framework for wage bargaining, etc. It is also proposed to include training for officials
and representatives of the social partners (trade unions and employer associations) in order to expose
them to practices in other countries. It is proposed that the technical assistance in this area be done
under an umbrella contract with ILO, which has the comparative advantage as an institution in such
areas, and good connections with social partners in many countries. As ILO is an executing rather
than funding agency, such a component could support their more active involvement and support to
BH.
. Social Protection Expenditure Strategy: This would support the SPES exercise initiated in 2000,
in order to prepare SPES for the 2002 and 2003 budgets, as part of the overall Budget Framework
Papers;
e  Training: There would be training for social protection staff at different levels in order to expose
them further to international practice in key areas where reforms are being designed or implemented.
This would involve workshops, Study tour, and Other training;
-  Social Statistics:  Along with other donors, the Bank has been supporting design and planned
implementation of a series of representative surveys, including a Living Standards Monitoring
Survey (LSMS) and Labor Force Survey. This component would finance continued support to the
Statistical Institutes, through training and other needs; and
*  Project implementation:  This would cover costs of the PELRP PIUs to carry out basic project
management functions for SOTAC, including procurement and financial management. Given the
small size of SOTAC, it is not feasible to have a separate PIU.



47
ANNEX 7: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                         9113/00
Bosro   Es roo 5    Lower-
POVERTY artndS CUL                                        a"d    Centrl mt ddl4-                 -._
H"2Z0Yirr         Asb  tneme           Development diamond
999
Population. moi-vear{ ilSos)                                         475    2094                     Life expectancy
GNP  er Capita (Afs ymehoef USj                                    2 150      1.200
GNP iAtes mielthod. tSS Odlo0ns)                          4$5      11022      2,513
Avw.r annual r owth, 1)99-99
Pop-utaton t%J                                                       0          11
Laborforce (J                                                        086        1.2      GNP                               Gross
Moat r9 41fl98111t5919 (latat war available. 1993-99)per                                           pnmary
M"e4  rec4nt tirSbtb WR"t vear av    * 1P993St                                         capita                         enrollment
Poverty (14 fpootif"ibn beow nae, oet  e).
UMan population (16 Of fontaffn)                           43         67         43
Lde exPctany at birth (Yom)                                73         61        69
Infantenmrtaitv (erW 1,00  lV bs)                          13         22        33
C)t imnulrtlon N of r t*ntw r 5)                                       a         15                Access to safe water
ACcS to linproved water source (16 of PatiOt  J              .         .)        86
lIlter(%0fpc uatiaaonae 15+)                                           3         15
GroM" prwimar enrolnlent (%ofschoedgepopsuatsior.                    100        114         -13 sma andHerzegowna
Male                                                               101       114                Lower-middle4ncome group
Fenale                                                              99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
197      1989       1998       19S 9
Economic ratios'
GOP tUSS aornsi                                   ..                 4.1        4.6
Gross domestic investrnentGOP                                       380        33.3
Exports of goors and services/GP                                    33.7       34D                       Trade
Gross dontestc savinos/GDP                         .        ..       I.ll       9.4
Gnros national ravi3oGmP                                            10.9       16,7                         T
Crnttt acount batanrIcGOP                         .         .       -27 1     .186       Domestic
Interest PaynentsWGCDP                                                1 4       1 4     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                              ..      74.0       87.Ss
Total det srearvtceportxp   .s                                       9.6        7.9
Presetlt vs u of debtVGOP                                   .          7. 2s.
Presertt vue of eoiesports                        ..         .      78.3
Indebtedness
107"89  195849        1998       IM    1S9-03
(avel   ennt~rowth)
GDP                                                      12.8       tD0        11.0          -Sosnia and Herzegovina
GNP9t  taCta                                             128        10.0       11.1                Lower-middle-income group
Exporlsotfoorsand seMces                                 33.7       110        12.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(%6 oM GOP)
Agrculture                                                           158       15.8     75
Industry                                                            27.8       27. a  
Uanufactunng                                    ..                                       {
Services                                                            56.4       56.4      o
Private consumption                                                                    -25            95 s        97   ss    9
General govemment consumption                     ..         .         .         .GDI                           -GDP
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..       70.6       57.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports 4%)
(a ve.W annual gnvo/th)
Agncultune                                                   -                          ir
Industry                                                                               120
Manufactunng                                               .          .
Services                                                                                so
Private consumption                                         .
General govemment consumption                     ..       ..          .          .             54   ss    t      yr   ss   ss
Gross domestic investment                              ..            3.7       -3 5
Imports of goods and services                               ..       7.8       -9 8                   E.pons     4Inmnvts
Gress national product                            .                 17.3       11.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds shovw four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wilt
be incomplete.



48
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989        1998      1999      Inflation (%
Domestic prices                                                                          2
(% change)
Consumer prices (in KM, the Federab'on)            ..       ..        5.0        0.0     10 
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..         .          ..                0
Government rinance                                                                       -10      9                  57    99    9
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      20 -
Current revenue                                    ..       ..       32.6       29.4    -30
Current budget balance                                                -0.6      -3.7             -     GP deflator  - P-CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                                              -7.2       -3.0
TRADE
1979     1989        1998      1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                   817       970      3.000
n.a.
n.a.                                                                                   2O
Manufactures
Total imports (cif.                                                 2,573      2,399
Food                                                                                   1.000
Fuel and energy                                            .           -       
Capital goods                                    .         ..         ..        ..        o-                  9 _    __
Export price index (1995=100)
Import pdce index (1995=100)                                                      *.                    Exporbs     *Iimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mi7/ions)                                  1979      1989       1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP (%),
(US$ millions)                                                      ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ci current offical transfers
Exports of goods and services                      ..       ..      1,367      1,560
Imports of goods and services                      ..       ..      2,864      2,661      0
Resource balance                                   ..       ..    -1,498    -1,101            93
Net income                                         .         ..      -111        -79     -  10-   
Net current transfers                              ..       ..        510       417
Current account balance                            ..       ..    -1,098        -763     -20
Financing items (net)                              ..       ..      1,014      1,347     -20I
Changes in net reserves                            ..       ..         85       -583
Memo:                                                                                    -30
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..       ..        175       380
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocaWISS)                              --        1.8       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998       1999
(US$ millions)                                                                            Composilton of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
IBRD                                                      ..        596       596
IDA                                                        ..       437       373                                  596
Total debt service
IBRD                                                      ..         35        34            400.4
IDA                                                        ..         2         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                        iI7
Official grants                                           ..        469       735
Official creditors                                         .        181       255
Private creditors                                         ..        -75        -74                                     77
Foreign direct investment                                             0        60                            _
Portfolio equity                                  -          -                  0                11235 
World Bank program
Commitments                                               ..        100       163      A- IBRO                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                             ..        135        68       e - DA    D - Other mitilateral   F - Pvate
Principal repayments                                      ..          0         0      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                                  ..       135        68
Interest payments                                    ..              38        36
Net transfers                                             ..         97        32
Development Economics                                                                                                         9/13/00



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28578R
1 6                       "-.\.To Zagreb                       1 8        To Osijek     
To Zagreb            ToZare            CROATIA                     ToVikor
To OsijekTRS
or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~og
-  CZECH  - POLAND /      UKRAINE~45- 
45'                                                                 DervorNt 3'                                        2   '      MOLDOV
Adriatic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pmi , r
RIVERS                                                                  "'A   HUNGARY/O               25 50 75
D<JbxvnilJams~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~znc IW r 
42'  o   SELECED CITIES                              e praci~,wt   To                     KILOMETERSzI
BOSNIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ANDI~ HEZGVN                                    <*' 19
05kendw AkufO                                                         AGREEMENT LtNES i  MV
CROATI6                                                                        o A                                               TURKEY
CTO  rp 197
44'16                                       17                          0rco  ubltl                 72 ? ZTR
TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~COE 1 99



