Report No. PID8897
Project Name                     Bosnia and Herzegovina-Social...
Sectors Adjustment Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Social Protection and Labor
Markets
Project ID                       BAPE69058
Borrower(s)                      Bosnia and Herzegovina (Ministry
of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations)
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Social Welfare,
Labor and Refugees
of the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
of the Republika Srpska
Address: Sarajevo and Banja Luka.
Contact Person: Marko Pejcinovic (FBiH);
Milorad Bijelic (RS)
Tels: 387 71 648 828 (FBiH); 387 58 216 599
387 58 216 600 (RS)
Environment Category             C (proposed)
Date PID Prepared                April 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 24, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) is
proposed as the next in a series of adjustment
operations which IDA has extended to BiH following the
Dayton Accords. Previously approved SACs include two
Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSACs),
and an Enterprise and Bank Privatization SAC, in
addition to an IMF Stand-By Arrangement. After
consultation between Bank country management and the
Government, it was agreed that the next adjustment
operation should focus on the social aspects of BiH's
ongoing transition. It is proposed that the operation
be presented to the Bank's
2. Objectives
The overall objectives of the proposed SOSAC are to:
(i) support development of institutional and budgetary
mechanisms for development and prioritization of



social policy in BiH; (ii) improve the policy
framework for generation of productive employment
opportunities; (iii) improve the impact and efficiency
of the social safety net, in particular focusing
programs on the needs of the poorest; and (iv)
strengthen the social statistics base in order to
ensure that social policy is formulated on a well-
informed basis.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank Group's current 1997 CAS aims to assist BiH
in moving from immediate postwar reconstruction
towards sustainable recovery and growth. The key
objectives of the strategy are: (i) strengthening
institutions for macroeconomic management; (ii)
initiating structural reform measures, particularly in
privatization and banking reform; and (iii) carrying
forward physical reconstruction of the country.
A new CAS is currently being prepared for presentation
to the Board in FY00, covering the period of the
proposed SOSAC and SOSACII. The current draft places
major emphasis on the development objectives addressed
by the proposed operation, including alleviating
poverty, increasing social wellbeing, and supporting
an improved framework for increased incomes and
opportunities. It also places emphasis on
strengthening institutions to manage the transition
from reconstruction to sustainable recovery.
Discussions of the draft CAS indicate the heightened
need for translating economic growth into improved
living standards, particularly for the poorest.
The SOSAC can be viewed as initiating a process of
change, by supporting institutional arrangements that
will allow for incremental improvements in different
areas of social policy over a 5-10 year period. It is
important to view the operation within the longer-term
Bank strategy in BiH, looking both backwards and
forwards. On the one hand, the operation will seek to
build on the fundamental reforms supported under
PFSACI and II, in particular in areas such as
budgetary mechanisms and policy. The proposed SOSAC
seeks to dovetail on a number of specific areas in
PFSACII, such as the roll-out and refinement of budget
framework papers into the social protection sector.
Equally, it is proposed that SOSAC deliberately
minimize policy conditionality in fields where PFSACII
has detailed and fundamental coverage already. The
intention is to follow the SOSAC with a second SOSAC
which deepens reforms in areas under SOSAC, and
broadens the social policy agenda to certain key areas
where dialogue has been less intensive to date and
progress is likely to be slower (e.g. veterans
- 2 -



benefits). This strategy is being elaborated in the
context of the new CAS.
4. Description
The proposed Project is a single tranche structural
adjustment credit to BiH which would support: (i)
reforms of labor legislation to enable greater
flexibility in labor markets, in particular with
respect to hiring and firing by firms and settlement
of social welfare claims; and (ii) development of
social protection strategies, including expenditure
strategies with particular focus on social assistance;
and (iii) reform and improvement of survey-based
social statistics to better-inform policy makers in
Social Protection.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
IDA                               15 - 25 (TBD)
Total Project Cost:               15 - 25 (TBD)
The proposed IDA credit would be lent to BiH (the
State) for a period of 35 years, including a 10 year
grace period, on standard IDA terms. The State will
onlend, through subsidiary agreements, the credit
proceeds to the two Entities in agreed proportions on
the same terms as the IDA credit. Funding for
technical assistance for preparation is being provided
through a PHRD grant.
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
would be responsible for overall administration of the
Credit on behalf of BiH, the borrower. Each Entity's
Ministry of Finance would be responsible for
administering the pre-allocated funds from the Credit.
In terms of the further work on the substantive agenda
to be supported by SOSAC, the relevant ministries in
each Entity have constituted small working groups to
act as technical counterparts in development of the
policy agenda. While these groups need broader
representation - in particular from MOFs - they act as
useful focal points. In the labor area, the
Commission on Labor Legislation Reform acts as
counterpart in the Federation.
7. Sustainability
While proposed a single tranche operation, the credit
would be part of a longer term adjustment strategy in
social sectors. It is seen as a key first step in
improving the conditions for creation of productive
- 3 -



employment opportunities. It is also considered
important as part of the CAS strategy to link policy
lending to investment operations where possible, in
order to ensure that institutional strengthening
accompanies policy reform.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the
country/sector
Previous adjustment lending has brought out the need
for more integrated sectoral policy development in
BiH, as well as promoting harmonization of policy
approaches across entities to the extent possible.
The proposed credit attempts to incorporate these
lessons by greater emphasis on coherence policies in
SP, and aiming for similarity of approach cross-
entity.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public
consultation)    Issues       None.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Task Manager
Philip O'Keefe
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (36-1) 374-9570 (Hungary)
Fax:        (36-1) 374-9510.
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 14, 2000.
- 4 -



