Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23841
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-34650)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR15.3 MILLION (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
April 9, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 8, 2002)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
KMI = US$ 0.45109
US$ 1 = KM2.21687
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAC = Business Environment Adjustment Credit
BH = Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS = Country Assistance Strategy
DFID = Department for International Development, Government of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
ECHO =    European Community Humanitarian Office
EU =   European Union
ERR = Economic Rate of Return
FDI =  Foreign Direct Investment
GDP = Gross Domestic Product
ILO = International Labor Organization
IFC = International Finance Corporation
IFRC = Intemational Federation of the Red Cross
IMF = International Monetary Fund
LSMS =   Living Standards Measurement Survey
MOF = Ministry of Finance
NGO = Non-Governmental Organization
OHR = Office of the High Representative
PFSAC =   Public Finance Structuml Adjustment Credit
RS =  Republika Srpska
SOE = Statement of Expenses
SOSAC =   First Social Sector Adjustment Credit
SOSAC II =  Second Social Sector Adjustrnent Credit
SOTAC =    Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
SP =  Social Protection
SPES = Social Protection Expenditure Strategy
UNDP = United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:   Michal J. Rutkowski
Team Leader.    Philip B. OKeefe



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Social Sector Adjustment Credit
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Perforrnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P06905 8                                    Project Name: Social Sector Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Philip B. O'Keefe                          TL Unit. ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: April 9, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Social Sector Adjustment Credit              LIC/TF Number: IDA-34650
Count,y/Department: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/03/2000                            Effective: 06/18/2001        06/18/2001
Appraisal:  04/21/2000                              MTR:
Approval: 02/15/2001                             Closing: 08/30/2001         08/30/2001
Borrower/Iniplemienting Agency: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN TRADE AND
ECONOMIC RELATIONS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                         Linn
Countrv Aanager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                  Poortrnan
Sector Manager:      Michal Rutkowski                        Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:  Philip B. O'Keefe                       O'Keefe
ICR Primary Author:  Elliott Hurwitz
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Introduction-Bosnia has experienced strong economic growth since the 1995 Dayton Accords (from a
very low base), and basic infrastructure has been quickly rehabilitated with massive assistance from the
donor community. However, while significant progress has been made, implementation of economic
reforms has been slower than hoped. But with unemployment and poverty quite high, slow progress on
structural reforms meant that recovery would not yet become self-sustaining, even while a decrease in
donor funding was imminent.



In the social protection (SP) area, the country faced a critical situation in the labor market: a large pool of
unemployed, with limited prospects of new jobs; the start of privatization, which was expected to add to
registered unemployment in the medium term; and an excessively rigid legal and policy framework for
labor. In addition, basic social safety nets were inadequat; capacity to formulate social policy was weak;
and data to guide social policy was lacking. SP policy formulation was uncoordinated-a weakness
exacerbated by the extensive devolution of responsibility in the sector-and in many cases there was
duplication of functions. In particular, rigidities in the labor market posed formidable obstacles to
sustained growth.
It was envisaged that the one-tranche SOSAC would principally support key initial policy reforms in labor
markets and in strengthening the social statistics base, while laying out a comprehensive program of social
policy reform. SOSAC II would then follow up by starting to implement the SP goals identified in
SOSAC.
SOSAC was complemented by a Technical Assistance credit (SOTAC) of US$3.55 million equivalent,
approved by the Board in December, 2000. Support was provided to build capacity in areas key to the
ongoing policy dialogue and to reforms supported by SOSAC as well as an expected follow-up credit,
SOSAC II (expected to be considered by the Board in FY02). A summary of the areas of SOTAC
support is included in Section 10. SOSAC was also complementary to work done under PFSAC I and II to
strengthen budgetary mechanisms and policies. Finally, work under SOSAC was closely coordinated with
that of the IMF, which in December, 2000, completed its fourth and fifth reviews of its Stand By
Arrangement, which it extended to May 29, 2001.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
SOSAC's overarching objective was to reduce poverty in the most effective manner by increasing social
well being and supporting an improved framework for increased incomes and opportunities. SOSAC was
intended to achieve this by: (i) supporting development of institutional and budgetary mechanisms for
development and prioritization of SP policy and programs; (ii) improving the policy framework for
generation of productive employment opportunities; (iii) initiating improvements in the impact and
efficiency of the social safety net, in particular focusing on the needs of the poorest; and (iv) strengthening
the social statistics base in order to ensure that social policy is formulated on a well-informed basis. It is
important to note that the key actions required by SOSAC conditionality were required to have been
implemented before the credit could be considered by the Bank's Board.
SOSAC was explicitly intended to initiate a process of change by supporting policy reforms and
institutional arrangements that would permit gradual improvement in different areas of social policy over a
5-10 year period. It should be noted that while SOSAC had 4 objectives, objective (ii), improving the
(labor) policy framework for generation of productive employment opportunities, was always considered to
be the most important objective. This was because, with such a high level of unemployment and poverty,
unless progress could be made in removing obstacles to job creation, the. demands on the social safety net
would be so large that improving its efficiency would not count for much. And with the imminent decline
in donor funding, improving the climate for foreign direct investment (FDI) was also key.
Assessment of the Objectives-SOSAC was highly relevant to the country's development needs. In the
context of the country's high rates of unemployment and poverty, improving the environment for the
- 2 -



generation of productive employment was critical to improving living standards. And while of course many
factors contribute to employment growth, the unusually rigid labor market framework in BH was identified
as a critical stumbling block. A Bank Labor Market Study, completed in early 2000, identified these
rigidities as a key obstacle. This finding was amplified by Bank-sponsored legal analyses and labor market
reviews, which found that given the depressed conditions, many enterprises faced an obvious surplus of
labor. But rather than lay off redundant workers, they declared them redundant and placed them on
enterprise "waiting lists" (more detail below). In many cases, firms also fell behind in wage payments.
The resultant large but indeterminate enterprise liabilities due to, inter alia, waiting list employees, had a
dampening effect on investment, which was particularly important due to the imminent start of privatization
and the looming decline in donor funding. In effect, SOSAC progress in reducing labor market rigidities
was critical to the advancement of the country's privatization program, and thus its progress in the
transition to a market economy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had one component, Social Sector Adjustment, of US$20 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is considered to be Highly Satisfactory.
SOSAC was consistent with the country's development strategy and with the 2000 CAS, which emphasized
four development priorities: strengthening govemance; fostering private sector led growth; building social
sustainability; and completing reconstruction. The CAS-developed in close cooperation with BH
authorities-envisaged that SOSAC would principally support key initial policy reforms in labor markets,
while demonstrating the commitment of govenmments in both entities to a comprehensive program of social
policy reform. SOSAC II would then build on these initial measures in social protection with more
concrete actions, in particular in the areas of veterans' benefits, social welfare, and disability programs.
As described above, SOSAC was highly relevant to the country's development needs, with the labor
components aimed squarely at an obstacle that had the potential to derail its transition progress. Also, as
described below in section 4.1. 1, the Bank identified progress in SP and social statistics as critical to
poverty reduction, and initiated a series of workshops and collaborative efforts that culminated in SOSAC.
Bank staff-along with other international staff and Borrower officials-then spent nearly a year of
intensive work drafting language for legal amendments that reflected politically realistic and financially
practical compromises to highly-contentious and sensitive topics. Government officials, other donors, and
international agencies credit the Bankfor being a centralforce in highlighting essential Social Protection
issues in BH.' The Bank played a key role in developing compromise solutions that were acceptable to all
stakeholders.
SOSAC's design focused on a limited agenda of technically and politically difficult-but ultimately
feasible-reforms. This focus helped to channel the energy of the stakeholders, and the one-tranche
design-with all conditions satisfied prior to Board consideration-reflected the commitment of the
authorities to the achievement of SOSAC reforms. As further described in section 4.1.1, SOSAC was a
- 3 -



demand-driven project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1. 1 Process Leading to SOSA C
In assessing the credit, it is important to appreciate the process that led to its initiation. After the signing of
the Dayton Accords in December, 1995, the international community made a commitment of US$5.1
billion over 5 years to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the country. At that time, little consideration
was given to SP issues. In December, 1997, a Conference on Social Policy was held, sponsored by the
Bank, CARE, the IFRC, and EU/ECHO. This was the first inter-entity conference on this subject held
inside the country, and it highlighted large differences in philosophies as well as the low level of local
capacity. The Conference led to creation of the Social Policy Task Force-guided by the International
Community-which identified the most critical areas of need. By the end of 1998, an initial policy paper
had been written, and in the subsequent year 7 additional papers were written. Also during this time,
numerous NGOs lobbied the Bank and the government, stressing the role of social policy.
This work program and activity led to a December, 1999, inter-entity Workshop in Sarajevo, which was
attended by a wide cross-section of public officials from both entities, local and international NGOs,
academics, trade unions, members of civil society, and donors. The Workshop defined the parameters of
the SOSAC-supported policy agenda, as well as medium-term policy issues which would require future
reforms and could be supported by subsequent operations.
Following the Workshop, the exceedingly arduous process of drafting new labor legislation acceptable to
all parties took place. In the Federation, this was done under the auspices of the Commission on Labor
Legislation, with the participation of local counterpart agencies and the Bank, Office of the High
Representative (OHR), and the International Labor Organization (ILO). In the Republika Srpksa (RS), a
parallel Working Group was formed with similar composition. As a result of very intensive work under
these groups over a period of a year, language acceptable to all parties was developed. The participation of
the ILO brought technical legal expertise, as well as enhanced credibility with the government and trade
unions, which view the ILO as sympathetic to labor. During the commission's work, the political
atmosphere was highly charged, and there were two general strikes aimed at influencing the outcome.
It was from this process that SOSAC emerged-the country's first major effort in the SP area. SOSAC
was demand-driven in that it emerged from the consensus (among most groups) on key issues which was
forged by the activities described above, as well as the considerable shift in the attitudes of policy officials.
The Bank had played a key role in bringing to the fore critical Social Protection issues, and the initiation of
SOSAC stimulated further progress in these areas.
4.1.2 Labor Market Rigidities
To understand the project, it is important to describe the pre-SOSAC situation in the labor markets; the key
concept was that government regulation, not the employee-employer contract, was the basic tool and
convention for regulating labor relations. This reinforced rigidities in the labor markets and created
unreasonable and unnecessary obligations on employers:
Government prescription of work terms and conditions went far beyond what is appropriate for a
market economy. For example, it was only possible to enter into a fixed-term contract under
- 4 -



narrowly-prescribed circumstances. And the law made dismissals very difficult and costly: there
was no general provision allowing termination for economic or competence reasons, the law
required a long compulsory notice period and very high severance payments, and the law gave
unions and work councils an essential veto power over dismissals.
*  All private employers were automatically subject to employment terms and conditions specified in
the law. For example, employers were obligated to pay workers a 70% premium when they
worked outside their home towns, whether that was reasonable for a particular job or not.
*  There was a high degree of discretionary control for Labor Inspectorates and other public officials
in their interaction with firms, providing substantial opportunities for rent-seeking.
*  BH, as other ex-Yugoslav republics, had the peculiar institution of "waiting lists." These were
originally introduced so firms could place workers "on hold" during periods of downturn, paying a
stipend lower than their wage, plus their social insurance contribution. While estimates were
inexact, evidence suggests that in 2000 around 10% of the entire laborforce in the two entities
was on the waiting lists. In the Federation, the law stated that workers would receive an
entitlement of KM5,000 to exit the waiting list, paid by the firm. In the RS, the requirement was
that the firm should not fire the worker, but should place them on a waiting list for 6-18 months,
during which time they would receive 70% of their average salary, plus social insurance
contributions. These terms were extremely onerous for enterprises.
*  The duration of unemployment benefits, and their magnitude, was significantly greater than
regional comparators, and was unaffordable for the country. In the RS, for example, pre-SOSAC
regulations granted 30 months of Ul benefits at a level of xx % of final wage.
*  Under the law, private employment agencies could not be established.
As noted above, the 2000 labor market study and subsequent analyses found that many enterprises did not
lay off redundant workers, but instead placed them on waiting lists. This severely limited employment
opportunities for the young, and resulted in: a low formal employment rate; a high informal employment
rate; and a high overall unemployment rate. In effect, labor market rigidities provided an additional
incentive for employers to stay out of the formal sector. In the context of the severe economic stresses
placed on many frms by the war, there was little chance that many workers would be further engaged by
their former employers.
While it was certainly appropriate for the state to prescribe minimum standards in a range of areas (e.g.,
non-discrimination, child labor, occupational safety and health), the pre-SOSAC legal requirements went
well beyond these, and caused severely detrimental economic effects. Many firms were deterred from
hiring by the onerous requirements.
4.1.3 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall outcome is assessed as satisfactory. All SOSAC conditions were fulfilled prior to the project's
consideration by the Board, and the project achieved nearly all of its objectives, with only minor
shortcomings:
(i) support development of institutional and budgetary mechanisms for development and prioritization of
SP policy and programs
Achievement in this area is assessed as satisfactory.
Across the social sectors, policy formulation was uncoordinated and weak, with many responsibilities
- 5-



devolved to cantonal and municipal officials. The result was a fragmented approach to basic planning and
management in SP, and a virtual absence ofprioritization. In many cases there was considerable
duplication, either formally through separate institutions for Bosniak and Croat areas, or informally
through limited communication between different tiers of management. Overall, there was a general
separation ofpolicy development from implementation.
Under SOSAC, for the first time both entities produced Budget Framework Papers and draft Social
Protection Expenditure Strategies, which provided a framework for prioritizing social protection
expenditures. There was strong participation of relevant social ministries, the MOF, veterans'
administrations, and employment institutes. And, as happened in other aspects of SOSAC, officials
reported that the process of developing the strategy greatly enhanced communication among agencies, and
thus improved efficiency. For example, in the Federation, Veterans' Benefits are now administered via a
unified system for both Bosniacs and Croats, whereas it had been done separately before.
The Strategies made specific recommendations for future activity in the following areas:
*  Employment (e.g., active measures to address unemployment; retraining programs)
*  Pension and Disability Insurance
*  Policy Toward Displaced Persons
*  Health Protection
*  Protection of War Veterans and Military Disabled (e.g., approval of a unified Federal regulation on the
rights of veterans)
As noted earlier, several of these recommendations form the basis for the program that will be followed in
SOSAC II.
(ii) improve the policyframeworkfor generation ofproductive employment opportunities
Achievement in this area is assessed as satisfactory.
As a result of SOSAC, laws came into effect in both entities that were consistent with a market economy.
In particular, the employer-employee contract was recognized as the basic tool and convention that
govemed labor relations. In general, the new laws devised practical and feasible solutions to labor issues
which stood a reasonable chance of benefiting workers, while not placing an unsupportable burden on
enterprises or govemment.
Box 1-Labor Law Reform
Oveirll-Labor Legislation         Employment Law
Federation                    Amendments to Labor Law        New law entered into force 12/00
passed by Parliament 8/00
RS                            New Labor Law passed by        New law passed by Parliament
Parliament 10/00               10/00
As detailed in Box 1, above, new laws or amendments were embraced which introduced the following
reforms':
For the waiting lists, the solution developed included either rehiring of workers from the lists, or
the entitlement of the worker to one-time compensation from the firm of around KM 1,000
- 6 -



(average) with a maximum of KM 1,200. The KM 1,000 payment represented a decrease of
80-90% from the pre-SOSAC level.
*  The maximum length of Ul benefits was reduced from 24-30 months to an average of 8-9 months,
with a maximum of 12 months for those with a 25-year work history, and as little as 3 months for
those with a brief work history.
*  UI benefits were reduced from a replacement rate of around 60-70% to 3040%, depending on
work history. A requirement was introduced that the unemployed actively seek work, and not
refuse jobs that they might reasonably be expected to take. And steps were taken to improve the
efficiency of Employment Institutes (which administered UT benefits).
*  The law was amended to permit the establishment of private employment agencies.
* There was virtually complete liberalization of workers' ability to enter into non-regular labor
contracts, including fixed-term, part-time, and service contracts.
*  While all employers had previously been subject to general and branch employment
agreements--even if they were not a party to a specific negotiation--this mandatory part of the law
was eliminated.
*  A substantial reduction in severance pay and notice periods for dismissals was effected.
*  In both entities, Laws on Employment and Labor were harmonized with intemational conventions,
and as closely as possible with each other, in order to promote the concept of a single economic
space in BH.
In considering a solution to the waiting list problem, it is acknowledged that there was an element of
arbitrariness in the arrangement adopted, because many firms could not afford to take back workers or
compensate them, and thus their workers received nothing. However, options were severely limited, and
the SOSAC team had to take account of the following factors: some individuals had been on waiting lists
for 5 to 10 years, while actually working elsewhere; financing waiting list payments from the budget would
have cost an estimated KMI00-120 million, an unaffordable sum; there was considerable ambiguity as to
which individuals were actually on the waiting lists (discussed in more detail below); local courts did not
have the capability to determine whether enterprises could "afford" payments to workers on their waiting
lists. Consequently, in practical terms the solution developed for the waiting list problem was considered to
be the best that could be achieved under the difficult circumstances that prevailed.
It should be noted that in attempting to reach a consensus on changes in labor legislation and policy, the
Bank and reform-minded officials were confronting a strong prevailing culture-that once a person
worked at an enterprise, in many cases they expected to work at the same firm for their entire working life.
Accommodating this mindset, especially vexing with regard to the waiting lists, took a great deal of
patience and work.
Impact of Labor Law reform: While the process of phasing out the waiting lists has been accomplished de
jure-no one currently has a legal right to the privileges formerly conveyed by being on a waiting
list-implementation is still incomplete. For people who believe that they should have been on waiting
lists, Waiting List Commissions have been formed to consider their claims, but in most cases these
commissions have made little progress. In some cases, people who have human rights concerns-for
example, those who believe their employment was terminated because of ethnicity-have applied to be on a
waiting list, even though the benefit of being on an informal waiting list is unclear.
Precise data on the impact of the phasing out of waiting lists are lacking. For example, it is not known
exactly how many people were on waiting lists prior to the reform; how many were compensated by their
firms; or how many cases are currently pending before Waiting List Commissions.'
- 7 -



In terms of the impact on the job market, there is anecdotal evidence that the business climate as perceived
by both domestic and international investors has improved. In the RS, for example, authorities report that
representatives of 3 foreign firms checked with them concerning the new legal framework, and then
proceeded with the purchase of RS enterprises: Celix in Banja Luka, purchased by a Slovakian paper
manufacturer; Birac in Zivornik, bought by a Lithuanian bank; and Vitaminka, purchased by a Swiss firm.
RS officials state their belief that none of the foreign firms would have proceeded if the old labor law had
been in place. Birac released 95% of its workers, but reportedly plans to rehire as many as it needs to
rebuild its business, while the other 2 firmns kept all of their workers.
In the Federation, the Bank surveyed 12 private companies-some start-ups and others newly
privatized-as part of the preparation of the Business Environment Adjustment Credit. Managers of these
companies as well as officials of Employers' Associations told the Bank that they find the labor law liberal,
and not an obstacle to doing business." And Federation officials who have contact with foreign investors
stated that investors with whom they have spoken are positive about the business climate insofar as labor
reforms are concemed.
With regard to improving the efficiency of distribution of UI benefits, several govemment investigations
found reason to believe that not all of the funds appropriated were reaching beneficiaries. Therefore, in
accordance with SOSAC, activity was undertaken (funded by SOTAC) to conduct financial audits of all
Employment Institutes. Tenders for these audits were underway as of this writing, and they are expected to
be started shortly.
Finally, it should be noted that the labor relations frameworks in the 2 entities are now closely harmonized
in all key respects, an explicit effort that was readily accepted by local counterparts. This contributes to an
overarching Bank goal of supporting creation of a single economic space.
(iii) Initiate improvements in the impact and efficiency of the social safety net, in particular focusing on
the needs of the poorest.
In this area, a good foundation was laid for further progress under SOSAC II, and achievement is assessed
as satisfactory:
Social Assistance-A key SP issue in BH is that financing of social assistance is primarily the
responsibility of local government, while policy development is done at the entity level. Local financing,
along with other organizational issues, resulted in substantial disparities in benefit levels in different areas
of both entities. In addition, the country had a complex and overlapping structure to provide social
transfers, which meant that some beneficiaries received transfers from multiple sources, reducing the
resources available for those who might have had greater need.
Under SOSAC, the authorities have prepared plans to reform social assistance in the areas of financing,
benefit administration, and targeting. Both entities have made commitments to allocate funds at the entity
level, so that a partial equalization of benefits can be achieved, as well as a minimum benefit, regardless of
the beneficiary's location. These commitments are made in the Social Protection Strategy documents for
each entity.
Pensions and Disabilities-Pension data coordination was poor, with some regional earnings records
unavailable to the entity authorities, and some entity records unavailable to the regions. Under SOSAC
(which complemented more extensive pension reforms under PFSAC II) an agreement was signed in
-8-



March, 2000, to coordinate data on benefits.
Disability payments were previously provided based on a complex and partially dysfunctional system.
Criteria were purely medically-based, and not related to an "ability to work" standard. In addition, civilian
victims of war were treated differently than regular civilian disabled, with no clear justification for the
distinction. Under SOSAC, important preliminary steps were taken to rationalize disability benefits. For
the first time, administrative data on disability of all types and from all programs were consolidated.
Further work is to be undertaken under SOTAC to support consistent categorization and treatment of the
disabled in different system, and to place the "ability to work" criterion into eligibility assessment. As
noted earlier, further work on pension, disability, and veterans' benefits will be undertaken in SOSAC II.
Veterans' Benefits-Veterans' benefits are a major social and fiscal issue in both entities, with household
surveys suggesting that around 55% of the population have an ex-soldier in the household. Despite a high
level of spending, neither entity is able to meet the full range of legally mandated benefits. Under SOSAC,
veterans were represented in the Task force that developed the Social Protection Expenditure Strategies,
with an intention of reducing expenditures and redirecting funds toward better-targeted interventions. Also,
the Social Protection Expenditure Strategy approved by each entity as part of the Budget Framework Paper
reflects a commitment to lowering the share of expenditures on veterans' programs over time.
Overall, considerable progress was made in facilitating communication among individuals and agencies
responsible for SP policies (some of which had overlapping responsibilities). Both within and between
agencies and entities, SOSAC improved communication by providing a forum. For example, in the process
of preparing the SP Strategy Paper, a representative of the Ministry of Finance participated along with
officials from the SP area, which proved beneficial since it began to integrate consideration of various SP
options with fiscal considerations, in effect elevating the question, "how much can we afford to spend?"
(iv) Strengthen the social statistics base in order to ensure that social policy is formulated on a
well-informed basis.
Achievement in this area is assessed as satisfactory. A strong foundation for an improved social statistics
system was established (with the support of SOTAC, UNDP, and the governments of the UK, Sweden, and
Italy). It should be noted that SOSAC conditionality in the statistical area was complementary to
implementation of the Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS)-implemented by UNDP and the
Bank, and supported by other donors-which was underway prior to SOSAC effectiveness. SOSAC
achievements included:
*  A household survey team was established in each entity, which worked throughout the project.
This team helped to manage questionnaire development as well as collection of data for the LSMS.
*  A Master Sample was created, consisting of households in 25 municipalities, 14 in BH and 11 in
the RS. While this sample was somewhat less representative than would have been ideal-for
example coverage of rural areas is limited-it is considered that it is the best that could have been
done within existing resource constraints. The Master Sample was used for the LSMS, and it is
expected that it will be utilized for the forthcoming Household Budget and Labor Force Surveys
(for which donor funding is expected to be available in the near future).
* Open Access Data Agreements were signed by the authorities of both entities-a difficult step in
some instances because of legal obstacles. At the time of this writing, the data are currently being
-9-



analyzed, and so their openness has not actually been tested. However, a complete data set has
been transferred to the Bank, and there is every expectation that access to finished data will be
provided.
* A Data Users Committee has been established, and meets periodically. This committee
participated in questionnaire design, a role that users had not exercised prior to SOSAC. Several
agencies that had previously not participated in survey design or analysis were enthusiastic about
the opportunity to do so.
Significant training was provided to statistical institutes in the 2 entities and well as the State Statistical
Agency, which strengthened their capacity. A Long-Term Advisor, provided through the LSMS project,
afforded informal advice to various agencies. And a mini-seminar in survey design and implementation
was presented, followed by considerable on-the-job training. In addition, at this writing 5 individuals from
the 3 statistical institutions, as well as two members of the data users group, are undergoing training in
Washington in survey design and analysis. Finally, the process of collaborating on SOSAC brought the 3
statistical agencies closer together, and greatly improved their cooperation and working relationships.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project had just one component-Social Sector Adjustment-and so the discussion of project
achievement of outputs was organized by its four objectives and described in the previous section.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate an ERR.
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
It was not possible to calculate an FRR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The entire SOSAC project comprised Institutional Development, and (as documented in earlier sections) it
is considered that the project's IDI was substantial:
*  For the first time, a framework was developed for prioritizing social protection expenditures, with
some participants in the process working together for the first time.
*  Legal changes were implemented that comprised major advances in the framework governing labor
relations. It is considered that these changes removed potentially serious obstacles to the economic
transition. Anecdotal evidence suggests that they are starting to have a positive effect.
*  A foundation was laid for improving the efficiency of the social safety net, including better benefits
targeting, establishment of a minimum benefit, and reform of pension and disability payments.
*  A strong foundation for an improved social statistics system was put into place.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Provision of Some Technical Assistance was Delayed-The effectiveness of the complimentary
SOTAC credit was delayed around six months due to the change in the Federation government after the
2000 election (parliamentary ratification was needed for effectiveness). Several officials interviewed
believe that some aspects of SOSAC (e.g., public information program, functional review of the
Ministry of Social Protection) would have been more effective if it had been initiated earlier.
- 10 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Substantial Turnover in Government Policy Officials-The rapid tumover of officials made
progress more difficult. From 1999-2001, in the cognizant ministries there were numerous Assistant
Ministers (3 in BH and 2 in RS) under whose responsibility the project was conducted. During the
same interval, there were several Ministers in the same agencies (3 in BH; 2 in RS Ministry of Health
and Social Protection, and 4 in RS Ministry of Labor and Veterans Affairs)
5.3 Factors generally subject to inmplemnenting agency control:
None.
5.4 Costs andfi nancing:
The project disbursed US$20 million (equivalent), and closed on August 30, 2001, 3 months later than
planned.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilit rating:
Sustainability of the benefits achieved under SOSAC is considered likely.
As described in section 4.1.1, SOSAC was the culmination of a long process of dialogue on social sector
issues, which has continued in the context of the preparation of SOSAC H (expected to be considered by
the Board in FY02). This also included challenges of coming to agreement and implementing legislation
and other reforms on veterans' issues. As noted earlier, a Workshop was held in June, 2001, to define
SOSAC II parameters. After the conference, the response was quite rapid and within 5 months the
Government had developed reform proposals in a framework corresponding to that discussed at the
Workshop. Recognition at all levels of government of the importance of social sector issues has increased
greatly. SOSAC II is expected to be considered by the Board in FY02. The consensus that has been
forged on advancement of the SP agenda between the Bank, the government, and other agencies makes
sustainability of SOSAC achievements likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition to regular operations is well advanced. The strengthening of the institutional and budgetary
mechanisms for SP policy, and the improvement in the efficiency of the social safety net, are being dealt
with on an ongoing basis under SOSAC II, which addresses:
* reform and rationalization of veterans' benefits
*  reform of social assistance policies, institutional arrangements, and fnancing sources, to reduce
sharp disparities in coverage in the current safety net by supporting core benefits within each
Entity.
* programs and services for persons with disabilities, to promote both their integration into the labor
market and greater consistency across different disability programs
*  building on SOSAC I, support for incremental improvements in the operation of programs for the
unemployed.
Labor law and policy reforms achieved under SOSAC have been embraced and are being implemented by
the government, which understands their centrality to the transition process. And the gains in the statistical
base are being utilized and extended, with the financial assistance of the donor community.
-1 1-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall Bank Performance is rated as highly satisfactory. As described in detail in section 3.5, Quality at
Entry is considered highly satisfactory. As noted earlier, a Bank Labor Market Study completed in early
2000 confirmed the importance of labor market rigidities in suppressing job creation and reform progress.
The Bank worked intensively with other elements of the international community-most notably OHR and
ILO-as well as with governments at all levels, and other stakeholders (Employers' Federations, unions,
etc.) to forge a consensus on SOSAC reforms. This was a noteworthy achievement, as the issues were
highly contentious and the interest groups were fractious. Bank performance in lending is considered as
highly satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank Performance in supervision is considered highly satisfactory. BH officials stated that the Bank
provided timely and highly-professional advice and assistance, and that Bank staff were "patient" in the
face of traditional modes of behavior on the part of many officials. Through all phases of the project, the
Bank maintained a strong field presence, a factor favorably noted by Borrower officials. In addition, the
Bank maintained a substantial continuity of the SOSAC team, with many individuals working from the
time of the first conference in December, 1997, until the present.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is considered to be Highly Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation is assessed as satisfactory. The role of the Borrower in SOSAC preparation has been
described earlier, in section 4.1.1. While from 1995-97 officials from both entities were not focused on
social protection, subsequent to the December, 1997 Conference on Social Policy they participated quite
actively in drafting policy papers and identifying the most critical areas of need. Their participation and
support was important since the commitment of their agencies was needed for SOSAC to be successful. It
was also during this process that the attitudes of officials of both entities began to develop, e.g., in the area
of labor relations, from one rooted in a centrally-controlled economy, to one more suitable to a market
economy. As project identification and preparation proceeded, official attitudes evolved to a greater and
greater extent. Both entities passed the required legislation (with the exception noted in the next
paragraph), and took all other actions required.
As mentioned earlier, the Federation Parliament did not pass a Law on Job Placement acceptable to the
Bank prior to SOSAC consideration, and so a satisfactory law was imposed by OHR. An acceptable draft
had been proposed by the government, but was blocked in a Parliamentary committee. The Federation
Parliament subsequently passed the same legislation (as that imposed) in September, 2001.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Performance of both entities in implementation was satisfactory. SOSAC conditions required that
specified measures be implemented prior to Board consideration, and as described above, all of these were
satisfactorily realized.
Since the measures were taken, there has been no backtracking in either entitv. In the area of strengthening
institutional and budgetary mechanisms for SP, the exercise completed to date provides a framework
extending until end-2002, and after that it is expected that it will be extended under SOTAC and SOSAC
- 12-



II.
The RS has made progress in the area of employment benefits, where an international consultant worked
with the government to develop an operational manual (with support from SOTAC). Implementation
progress in the area of Employment Law in the Federation has been mixed, although it has improved in the
last 6 months. In the area of Labor Law, as described earlier the Federation has established Waiting List
Commissions, with a modest commitment to making the process work. However, progress to date has been
slow. In the RS, progress in the area of Labor Law has also been slow because of concern over unfair
dismissals based on ethniic grounds.
In addition, as required the Borrower maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. The country's
recent macroeconomic performance is highlighted in Table 1, in section 10 below.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agencies is considered satisfactory. There were 3 implementing agencies:
in BH, the Ministry of Social Protection; and in the RS, the Ministry of Labor and Veterans Affairs and
Ministry of Health and Social Protection. All of them participated in the preparatory activities to SOSAC,
as described, and thereby achieved a considerable evolution of their attitudes. The agencies subsequently
participated in and facilitated project implementation.
Implementing agency performance regarding specific World Bank requirements for adjustment loans was
examined by an independent outside auditor, which found that all funds received were spent by the
Entities' Ministries of Finance in the prescribed manner, without qualification.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The Bank was Effective in Understanding the Political Economy of Change-Many aspects of
SOSAC required a keen understanding of the process of change, and the Bank was adept at facilitating
solutions that were acceptable to many stakeholders. In the intensive process of drafting the new labor
legislation, the Bank, as a critical donor and leader of the international community, played an important
role in tempering the demands of some groups, for example the trade unions, to retain more of the
privileges they were accorded by the old law.
A Substantial Shift in Officials' Attitudes was Key to Successful Reform-The process that led to the
December, 1999, inter-entity Sarajevo Workshop-as well as the intensive effort to draft new labor
legislation-is described in section 4. 1. 1. The active participation of officials at all levels in this process
led to a substantial shift in attitude, as they confronted key issues and the severe constraints within which
they had to work. In the area of labor relations, attitudes shifted from those rooted in the principles of a
centrally-controlled economy to those more suitable to a market economy.
Collaboration with the ILO Facilitated Reform-As noted in section 4. 1. 1, the ILO was a key
participant in the intensive process of drafting the new labor legislation, along with the Bank, OHR, and
local counterpart agencies. In addition to their technical contribution-including ensuring that the new
laws were harmonized with international conventions-ILO participation provided important credibility for
the process, as they were perceived by both citizens and local authorities as sympathetic to the rights of
local workers.
- 13 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Minister
Sarajevo, April 1, 2002
THE WORLD BANK
COUNTRY OFFICE IN SARAJEVO
Subject: Implementation Completion Report on SOSAC I
Dear Sirs,
With reference to your letter of March 25, 2002, please find enclosed our assessment on
implementation completion of SOSAC I in BiH.
I. Assessment of project objectives
Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) original objective was poverty reduction in BiH, in
accordance with CAS.
Basic objectives of SOSAC have been established and they should have initiated process of
changes and reforms in the area of labor market and social policy. In order to acquire an original objective,
it was necessary to implement individual project objectives:
*   institutional development and budgetary mechanism of social protection programs;
* improving of productive employment opportunities;
*   improving impact and efficiency of social safety network; and
*   strengthening of social statistics data base on population social status, ensuring that social policy is
formulated on realistic conditions.
II. Objectives assessment
Mentioned objectives were clearly and realistically defined in the project and represented the basis
which ensured initiating of the process of changes in many areas of social policy, which was of a critical
importance for BiH, a country in early stages of transition.
Such objectives were conditioned by reality in BiH, high level of poverty as a consequence of high
unemployment rate. The conditions in BiH revealed that the country was faced with chaos on labor market,
high number of unemployed and minimum employment opportunities, beginning of privatization as an
additional generator of unemployment, as well as inadequate laws in the areas of labor and social
protection.
During defining of original objectives of this project, it was taken into account that social
protection system transition was directly linked with overall transition of the country as a whole, which has
- 14 -



been done partially and slowly, as well as that key principles of social protection transformation, inter alia,
would ensure:
* recognition of legality, social safety and fairness;
*   creating of conditions where the family would be able to take care of the safety and protection of its
members; and
*   responsibility of authorities for its citizens.
III. Achievement of objectives/outputs
Outputs of SOSAC implementation in both Entities were on a satisfactory level.
Financial support from this credit allowed RS and FBiH Governments to acquire improvement in the
following areas:
1. Social protection policy and social protection institutionalframework
(Strategy of social expenditures for the period 2000 - 2003 adopted in both Entities, as well as the
Framework Budget Paper).
2. Labor Market Reforms
(Amendments to the Labor Law have been adopted in the Federation of BiH in July 2000 and a new Labor
Law was adopted in RS in October 2000. Two Laws were harmonized as much as possible and they have
also been put into compliance with international labor standards.)
3. Social Protection Programs
(Competent Ministries in F BiH and RS submitted a Report on Social Assistance, which regulated
framework for improving of social protection, including financing mechanism, allocation and expenditures
management criteria, as well as programs for disabled.)
4. Social Statistics
(Teams for household surveys established within Statistics Institutes in F BiH and RS, including staff for
developing of sample framework and signed contracts to open access to data .)
Total amount of credit, US$20 million, have been implemented. Economic and social conditions in
BiH influenced the credit implementation and overall outcome.
Despite of complex economic and social conditions in BiH, our assessment is that the project
acquired its basic objectives, although it has been going slowly, due to complexity of social and political
conditions.
Bosnia and Herzegovina will monitor the future implementation of factors which were the results
of this project and continue to work on its further improvement and development.
IV. Sustainability
Project sustainability is assessed as probable and possible.
It will depend to a great deal on future reforms in the social policy area (some of them are
supported through SOSAC II). Consultative process on PRSP will be of a critical importance for defining
of policy which would receive wide society support and simultaneously based on realistic foundations.
V. VVB performance
We assess that WB performance of the project was satisfactory, starting from preparation to the
- 15-



overall implementation.
Expert assistance has been offered in developing of strategy and legislation and participation of
WB gave a higher credibility to the process and inclusion of other actors.
VI. Borrower performance
BiH performance was also assessed as satisfactory, both during the preparation stage as well as
during overall implementation.
VII. Lessons learned
Implementation of this project once again showed that BiH, with assistance of international
community, must go forward in transition and reforming of all areas of life and work. although it faced
many difficulties, which slowed down the planned reforms.
Only a good performance of BiH may bring itself closer to European standards, even if that
integration goes step by step.
MINISTER
Azra Hadziahemtovic
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
MrNISTRY OF FINANCE
No. 04-1756/06
Date: March 18, 2002
THE WORLD BANK
RESIDENT MISSION SARAJEVO
Attn. Mr. Siew Chai Ting, Acting Director
Re: Social Sector Adjustment Credit I
Dear Sir,
Further to your letter from February 13, 2002 on SOSAC I Implementation Completion Report,
which requires project evaluation by Borrower, we hereby submit compiled report prepared by the Ministry
of Health and Social Protection, Ministry of Veterans and Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska.
- 16 -



The Ministry of Health and Social Protection was, from the very beginning, involved in defining
SOSAC I conditionalities.
Within this project, intensive efforts were invested in developing social protection strategy, when
three main objectives were set:
1. Analysis of current social protection system and policy;
2. Transition of social protection system; and
3. Defining basic concept of necessary legislation amendments.
It was concluded that situation in social protection in Republika Srpska was very complex due to
the following:
*  insufficient allocation for social protection needs;
*  poor demographic indicators;
*  disorders of psychological structure of population as a consequence of war-related stress and overall
unstable situation;
*  high unemployment;
*  presence of huge numbers of displaced persons, refugees and returnees; and
*  difficult situation in the other social security systems (PIO, health, employment, veterans' protection,
etc.)
Transition of RS social system directly depends on overall social transition which has been taking
place only partially. Key principles of social protection transformation are as follows:
*  guarantee of minimum living conditions for equally for every single citizen;
*  general social solidarity with citizens unable to work;
*  enforcement of legislation, social justice and equality;
*  making primarily family responsible of security and protection of its members;
*  making govemment authorities responsible of citizens.
The Ministry of Veterans was involved in the discussions on credit conditionalities and
implementation.
One of the conditions which had to be fulfilled by Republika Srpska was to reform RS labor and
employment legislation and to harmonize it with legislation of countries with full political freedom,
democracy and market economy. The Ministry and Employment Institute's task was to develop
legislation for these areas and to submit it to RS Government for further procedure within the Government
and Parliament.
In early 2000, when this credit was intensively discussed, process of amendments and
modifications of the said legislation, Labor Law and Law on Job Placement, was initiated; but it was noted
that new social and economic relations emerging in RS as a result of transition and privatization process
required completely new legislation in this area. The World Bank, which was main actor in the activities
related to negotiation of conditionalities and implementation of this credit, shared the same opinion.
The new laws in this area, i.e. systematic laws (the Labor Law and the Law on Job Placement)
were prepared and drafted with the active participation of the World Bank, ILO and OHR, which provided
technical assistance. The Laws were adopted by the Parliament in October 2000, and became effective on
November 16, 2000.
- 17 -



Main characteristic of these Laws is that they are new and modem laws, appropriate for new social
and economic relations established in RS as a result of ownership transformation. New legal solutions
reflect completely political and social-economic conditions and democratic processes in RS. Both Laws
fulfilled expectations and responded to political, economic and legal challenges of labor legislation reform
as one of the conditionalities of SOSAC I.
It is important to emphasize that the reform in this area went into several main directions, as was
suggested by the Bank:
1. Adjustment of labor and employment legislation with new social and economic relations with prevailing
private ownership which characterizes such relations, which emerged in RS as a consequence of
transition and privatization process.
2. Harmonization of labor and employment legislation with international labor standards defined by ILO
Conventions and promotion of non-discriminatory principles labor and employment sectors, with
emphasized freedom for both employer and employee, both in terms of regulating labor relations and in
terms of their interest-based organization.
3. Defining benefits, in both labor and employment laws, which are economically and financially
sustainable and in line with economic and financial situation of RS economy and government budget.
4. Harmonization of labor and employment laws with corresponding laws of Federation of BiH.
General evaluation is that these two Laws established legal bases for doing business in market
economy environment, full freedom of business operations and interest-based organization of employers
and employees, social dialogue on any important economic and social issues in RS, as well as for
elimination of any type of discrimination.
Analysis and assessments of situation in the area of labor and employment, after completed reformn
implemented by international factors which participated in that reform, show positive results; and it could
be rightly said that one of Social Sector Adjustment Credit conditionalities was fulfilled by RS in terms of
requirements and expectations by the World Bank and the other international factors which were involved
in implementation of this credit.
Attached, please, find the Ministry of Finance's Report on the purposes and timing of SOSAC I
resources use.
Best regards,
Minister
Milenko Vracar
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 18 -



10. Additional Information
Table 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina-Macroeconomic performance
Actual            Actual          Projected        Projected
1999              2000             2001              2002
Real GDP growth,          9.9              5.9                6.0              6.0
Inflation, %              3.2              4.8                5.0              3.8
Private Investment        3.0              4.8                5.0              3.8
(% of GDP)                                                             .
Current Account         -21.0            -21.0              -18.2            -15.4
Balance, % of GDP
FDI, US$ million          90               150               200               200
Official Lending         244               282               361               390
(multi- and
bi-lateral), US$
million
Capital transfers,       548               396               421               321
US$ million
Fiscal balance, % of    -18.1             -15.9             -14.1            -11.4
GDP
Exchange rate,            1.9              2.1                2.1              N/a
KM/US$             _                                 I                I _
Source: Country Department
Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC)
Outline of assistance provided
*   Social assistance technical assistance--Includes entity-level equalization funds, consultants to train
social protection staff
*   Special reviews of Employment Institutes
*   Technical assistance on disability programs
*   Labor legislation and labor market technical assistance-Umbrella contract with ILO
*   Social protection expenditure strategy-Support for the SPES exercise initiated in 2000
*   Social Statistics
*   Functional review of social protection in both entities
*   Public information campaigns on objectives of labor market and social protection reforms
*   Training for social protection staff
* Social Work Client Registries
*   Support for innovative collaboration with local NGOs
- 19-



Endnotes:
Improving the business climate is the subject of another Bank project, the Business Environment Adjustment
Credit (BAC), expected to be approved by the Board in Spring, 2002.
Rigidities in the formal labor market are highlighted in a 2001 study of the country's labor markets, which
provides a rough estimate of the unemployment rate as 40% in the formal sector and 17% in the informal sector;
see Milan Vodopivec, "Labor Mobility in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina" draft report, December, 2001.
As noted earlier, the significance of labor market rigidities in hindering growth was confirmed by several Bank
analyses, as well as others by DFID, FIAS, and IFC.
In addition to SOSAC and the ongoing dialogue, the initiation of the PSRP process also facilitated progress.
In June, 2001, a Workshop was held to define the parameters of the forthcoming SOSAC II. In this case, within
5 months the Government had developed reform proposals in a framework corresponding to that discussed at the
Workshop.
Empirical confirmation of these findings was provided by a later Bank study, Vodopivec, op cit.
It should be noted that in the Federation, an acceptable Law on Job Placement was imposed by OHR, supplanting
the existing code which contained unemployment provisions that were unacceptable to the Bank. (An acceptable
draft had been proposed by the government, but was blocked in a Parliamentary committee) However, the
Federation Parliament subsequently passed the same legislation (as that imposed) in September, 2001.
In the RS, however, a higher proportion of workers were "hired back" from waiting lists.
The govemment estimates that the number of workers on waiting lists in the Federation declined from around
80,000-85,000 in 1998/99 to around 30,000 by end-2001. See Vodopivec, op cit.
However, it should be noted that in contact with several SOEs, managers reported that they still maintained an
informal "waiting list" of people that will presumably be rehired in the event business improves. However those on
the list have no legal claim to any benefits.
-20-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrl.          |        Projected In'ast PSR                 ActualtLatest Estimate
A. Social protection policy and institutional
framework:
In the Federation:                    sabsfactorily met as of end 2000.    Govemment approved the Budget Framework
- Approved Social Protection Expenditure  s   leernment aPEd theB                                       Framework
Strategy for the period 2000-2003, as part of                              Paper. incuding SPES -October 31, 2000.
the overall Budget Framework Paper,                                        Submitted to IDA on October 31, 2000.
satisfactory to IDA;                  satsfactorily met as of end 2000.
- Submission of draft Social Protection
Strategy for the period 2000-2003B
satsfactory to IDA.                   satisfactorily met as of end 2000.   August r     2000, and PubmiR  d ao IDA with
-Approved Social Protection Expenditure                                    Minutes of Govemment session and detailed
Strategy for the period 2000-2003, as part of                              SPmabix
the overall Budget Framework Paper,   satisfactorily met as of end 2000.   Submitted to IDA on November 1, 2000.
satisfactory to IDA;
-Submission of draft Social Protecion
Strategy for the period 2000-2003,
satsfactory to IDA.
B. Labor market Issues:
In the Federation:
- approval by Pariiament of amendments to  sabsfadorily met as of end 2000.  Law on Amendments to Labor Law was
the Federation Labor Law, satsfactory to                                   approved on July 31, 2000 by the House of
IDA;                                                                       Peoples, and on August 2, 2000 by the
satisfactorily met as of end 2000.    House of Representatives.
- adoption of a Law on Job Placement and                                   Approved by the Govemment in September
Social Security of the Unemployed, in a                                    2000, and final version adopted on December
manner satisfactory to IDA.                                                20, 2000.
In RS:                                satisfactorily met as of end 2000.
- approval by Parliament and adoption of a                                 A new Labor Law was approved on October
new Labor Law, in a manner saUsfactory to                                  24, 2000, with subsequent amendment on
IDA;                                  satisfactorily met as of end 2000.   Nov. 12, 2000 of one article.
Approved by Pariiament on October 24,
- approval by Parliament and adoption of a                                 2000.
new Law on Employment, in a manner
satisfactory to IDA.
C. Social protection programs         satisfactorily met as of end 2000.   Submitted on November 3, 2000.
In the Federabon:
- relevant Ministry to submR a report on social
assistance, satisfactory to IDA, outlining
options for improved sodial assistance,
including financing mechanisms, targeting
criteria and benefits administratons
- submission of a report on disabiliy  satsfacorily met as of end 2000.    Submited on November 3.2000.
programs, satisfactory to IDA.
In RS:                                satisfactorily met as of end 2000.   Submited on November 8, 2000.
- relevant Ministry to submit a report on social
assistance, satisfactory to IDA, outining
options for improved sodal assistance,
including financing mechanisms, targeting
crieria and benefits administration;  sabsfactorily met as of end 2000.    Submitted on October 30, 2000.
- submission of a report on disability
programs, satisfactory to IDA.
D. Social statistcs
In the Federation:                   satsfactorily met as of end 2000.     Completed, with verification letter submitted
- establishment of household survey team In                                to IDA on Setember
the Statistical Institute, including staff                                 to IDA on September 28, 2000.
dedicated to development of sampling frame;
- progress, satisfactory to IDA, on completion satisfactorily met as of end 2000.
- 21 -



IDA statistics team has verified adequate
of a technical plan for creating master                                     progress.
sample;                               stsatrl     e  so   n   00
- approval by Stabstcal Institute of an Open  satisfacorily met as of end 2000.  Agreed with by FBH Statistical Institute and
Access Data Agreement for household                                         Open Access Data Agreement was signed
survey results.                                                             on October 30, 2000.
In RS:                                satisfactorily met as of end 2000.
- establishment of household survey team in                                 Completed, with verification letter submitted
the Statistical Institute, including staff                                  to IDA on September 29, 2000.
dedicated to development of sampling frame; satisfactorily met as of end 2000.
- progress, satisfactory to IDA, on completon                               IDA statistcs team has verified adequate
of a technical plan for creating master
sample;                               satisfactorily met as of end 2000.    prress
- approval by Statistcal Institute of an Open                               Agreed with by RS Statistical Institute and
Access Data Agreement for household                                         Open Access Data Agreement was signed
survey results.                                                             on October 30, 2000.
Output Indicators:
-.  .'IndIcator/Matrix                   Projected In Last PSR                ActuaULatest Estimate
End of project
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage'of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component          -US$ million  US$ million
Social Sector Adjustment                         20.00         20.00           100
Total Baseline Cost                              20.00         20.00
Total Project Costs           20.00         20.00
Total Financing Required           20.00         20.00
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-          Procurement Method   -
Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB         Other'      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                   0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Budgetary Support       0.00         0.00        20.00        0.00        20.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous           0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00        20.00        0.00       20.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
' ';    ' ';- ,A -,'M *  *>~9 / Pcurement Mthod  -        -
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB        Ote          N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                   0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                   0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous           0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Budgetary Support       0.00         0.00        20.00        0.00       20.00
-23 -



(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          0.00           0.00          20.00          0.00          20.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.lPercentage or Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimatei
.   Bank      Govt.    - CoF.      Bank       GovL-     CoF.     Bank    - GovL  CoF.
Social Sector Adjustment  20.00      0.00      0.00      20.00      0.00      0.00     100.0   0.0     0.0
-24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
It was not possible to calculate the ERR and FRR.
- 25-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
9/99                         7   TM, Health Economist,
Education Specialist, Education
Economist, Labor Economist,
Social Policy Specialist,
Consultant
12/99*                      6    TM, Labor Economist, Labor
Lawyer, Social Policy Specialist,
Pension Specialist, Microfinance
Specialist
2-3/00**                     6   TM, Labor Economist, Labor
Lawyer, Employment Services
Specialist, Social Policy
Specialists (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/00                         7   TM, Health Economist,
Labor Economist, Social
Policy Specialist (2), Public
Sector Specialist,
Consultant, Employment
Services Specialist
6/00                         5   TM, Labor Economist, Social
Policy Specialist, Public Sector
Specialist, Employment Services
Specialist
8/00                        4    TM, Social Policy Specialist,
Public Sector Specialist,
Employment Services Specialist
11/00                       3    TM, Employment Services
Specialist, Social Policy
Specialist
Supervision
6/01                         3   TM, Labor Economist,               S             S
Human Development
Economist
ICR
2/02                         I    Evaluation Specialist             S             S
*In 12/99 there was also the Sarajevo Workshop on social policy issues as described in the text.
**In late 1999/early 2000 there were numerous additional brief visits by the TM and the Labor Economist and
Labor Lawyer.
-26-



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation         58.85 (staff)                    187.53
17.00 (CS)*                       36.38
Appraisal/Negotiation              22.27 (staff)                     57.57
30.20 (CS)                       58.07
Supervision                         5.85 (staff)                     17.61
ICR                                  4.60 (CS)                       14.95
Total                                   138.77                     372.11
*CS - Consultant Services
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                       O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
OI Sector Policies                      O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
OII Physical                            OH    OSUOM      ON    *NA
[ Financial                             O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Li Institutional Development            O H   * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
LII Environmental                       O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
[ Poverty Reduction               O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
L Gender                          OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)          OH    OSUOM      ON    O NA
L Private sector development             0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Oi Public sector management             0 H   * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OII Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
OI Lending                                         OHS OS      OU     OHU
I Supervision                                      OHS OS      O U    O HU
G Overall                                          OHS Os      O u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
CJ Preparation                                    OHS OS       O U    O HU
rI Government implementation performance           O HS OS     0 U    0 HU
I Implementation agency performance               OHS OS       OU     O HU
ElOverall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 30 -



