Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Reput No. 7266
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1777-IVC)
May 27, 1988
Africa Regional Office
This documet has a resticted distribution and may be ued by recpienSt owly to the performance of
their offcdal dudes. Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed widhut World BDnk authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      - African Development Bank
BEP       -  Certificate of Vocational Education
BEPC      - Lower Cycle Secondary Completion Certificate
BT        -  Technician Certificate
BTS       -  Higher Technician Certificate
CAFOP     -  Primary Teacher Training College
CAP       -  Certificate of Vocational Aptitude
DCGTX     -  Central Directorate of Works
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -  Gross National Product
IDA       -  International Development Association
ILO       -  International Labour Organisation
INFTP     -  National Institute for Vocational Training
IPNETP    -  National Pedagogical Institute for Technical and
Vocational Education
LP        - Vocational Secondary School
METFP     - Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
MOA       - Ministry of Agriculture
MOE       - Ministry of Education
OMOCI     - Manpower Office, Cote d'Ivoire
ONFP      - National Office for Vocational Training
ONPR      -  National Office for Rural Development
PIU       -  Project Implementation Unit
SAPE      -  Education Project Implementation Unit
SERFE     -  Executive Secretary for Relations between Training and
Employment



FOR OFFICIAL USE (MY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
offime d Ohwctw.GeNWt4
%., WatwEft ivakiaSum
J
May 27, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
Third Education Proiect (Loan 1777-IVC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
'Project Completion Report t Cote d'Ivoire Third Education Project (Loan
1777-IVC)" prepared by Unesco for the Borrower. No further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has been made.
Attachment
ais document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1777-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ......      ..........................................   i
Basic Data Sheet ............... ....       .....................    ii
Evaluation Summary  . ....... . .     .      . ..... . ..      vi
I.   Project Background ................... ............ .    1
II. Project Implementation                .        .           3
III.   Costs and Disbursements               .................  8
IV.   Project Outcomes ... .** ..... .......... .. ..........   11
V.   Bank Performance .... . .o.o. ........................   16
VI. Conclusions and Lessons                  .        .       17
Annexes
Borrowers Comments
Thi doumet hs arestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PREFACE
1.   This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Education
Project in C8te d'lvoire, for which a Bank Loan of US$24 million was approved
in December 1979. The Loan Agreement (Loan 1777-IVC) was signed in
December 1979 and became effective in April 1980. The Project has been
completed and the Loan Account was closed on 7 January 1987. A total of
some US$9.04 million Loan was cancelled.
2.    This report was prepared by a Unesco mission for the Government of
CMte d'Ivoire under the Cooperative Agreement concluded between Unesco
and the World Bank. At the invitation of the Government, the mission, composed   f
of Messrs J. Waechter, architect (mission coordinator), J.C. Hameidat,
economist, Z. Laldi, institutional development specialist, and J. Lamoure,
technical educator, all consultants, visited C8te d'lvoire from 16 to 28 February
1887.: The mission met the appropriate authorities, particularly the project
implementation unit and the representatives uf the ministries involved.
Mr Waechter also visited Washington, D.C. and reviewed all relevant project
files at Bank Headquarters. This PCR is therefore based on: (i) the discussions
held and data received in Cote d'Ivoire; and (ii) file research conducted at
Bank Headquarters and discussions with relevant Bank staff. A draft of the
Report was sent to the Government and to the Bank for comment. Comments
were received from the Bank and the Borrower and have been incorpor-
ated into the final report. The Borrower's are attached as an annex.
3.    The valuable assistance provided by the Government in the preparation
of the Report is gratefully acknowledged.
4.    The findings and conclusions given in this Report are based on the
judgements of the mission. They do not necessarily reflect the points of view
of the Government oP those of the Bank.



- ii -l
COTE DIIVOIRE
TIlRD EDUCATIO  PROJECT - LOAN 1777-IVC
KEY PROJECT DATA
Ap Drai&l           Actual
Total Project Cost:
- in CFA Francs million                       18 886.8            21 032.1
- Overrun (%)                                                         13    1/
-  i US$ million                                  84.9                58.5
- Underrun l%)                                                        31     /
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                             24.0
- Disbursed                                                           14.96
- Cancelled                                                            9.04
- Repaid to 31 May 1987,i                                              5.71
- Outstanding to 31 May 19871/                                         9.25
Date Physical Components Completed            Sep. 1982           Feb. 1985
- in months since Loan Signature                  33                 62
- Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                                     88
Date of Overall Project Completion            June 1985           Dec. 1986
- in months since Loan Signature                  66                  84
- Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                                      27
Institutional Performance                                            Fair
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL D18BURSEMENT
(US$ millon)
FY           1980  1981  1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Appraisal Estimate,  0.25  1.95  13.25  22.35  23.45  24.00  24.00  24.00
Actual                 -   0.85  2.21   9.06  12.54  13.25  14.35  14.96
Actual as % of Est.   -    43    17       40      53     55     60      62
1/  Project reduced in scope.
2/  Which includes exchange adjustment of US$4.16 million.



- Lili -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                      °n                 Revisions      Actual.
First Mention in Files                                             May 77
Government's Application                                            n.a.
Negotiations                                                       August 79
Board Approval                                                   11 Dec. 79
Date of Loan Agreement                                           28 Dec. 79
Effectiveness Date               27 March 80                     10 Apr. 80
Closing Date                     30 June 85      30 June 86       7 Jan. 87
Borrower                         Republic of C8te d'lvoire
Executing Agency                 Ministry of Education
Fiscal Year of Borrower          1 January to 31 December
Follow-up Project                None                                                  e
Name
Loan Number
Amount (US$ million)           -
Date of Loan Agreement         -
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation) - CFA Franc (CFAF)
Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year 1979        US$1 = CFAF 220
Intervening Years Average   US$1 = CFAF 360
Completion Year (1986)     US$1 = CFAF 290



- iv -
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS (US$)
Original             Revised               Actual
Category         Allocation as per  Allocation as per   Disbursement as of
Loan Agreement        28 Feb. 1986          31 May 1987
Civil works            13 800 000            9 750 000            9 662 745.70
Architectural
services                 1 700 000           1 600 000            1 376 211.30
Furniture                  300 000             150 000               11 i58.95
Equipment               1 200 000            1 000 000            1 166 287.86
Specialist
services                 2 900 000           2 900 000            2 210 397.30
Fellowships                600 000             600 000              534 530.43
Unal located            3 500 000                     0                    0
Amount disbursed                           (16 000 000)         (14 961 331.54)
Amount cancelled                             8 000 000            9 038 668.46
Total                  24 000 000           24 00e 000           24 000 000.00
1/ Cancelled at Government's request (funds not needed).



v
MISSION DATA
Missions                 Sent by      Month-          No. of   No. of           Staff-    Date of
Year            Weeks    Persons          Weeks      Report
Sector Survey                 Unesco       Jan. 77         4         7                28         August 77
Pre-Identification            Bank         May 77           2        4                 8
Identification/Preparation  Bank/Govt.  Oct/Nov 77         4         6                24
Pre-Appraisal                 Bank         June/July 78   3          6                18
Appraisal                     Bank         Oct. 78          3         3                9         16 Nov. 79
Su*-Total                                                  16                         87
Supervision    1              Bank         Feb. 80          1        2 (A,T)          2           5 Mar. 80
2             Bank         Nov. 80         1         3 (A.G,T)       2           19 Jan. 81
3             Bank         May  81         1         1(A)             1          27 May  81
4             Bank         July 81         1         2 (G,T)          1         30 June 81
5             Bank         Nov. 81         1         1(A)             1         14 Dec. 81
6             Bank         July 82         1         1(A)             1           3 Sept 82
7             Bank         Mar. 83         1         4 (A,E,G,T)    2           25 Mar. 83
8             Bank         June/July 83   1          3 (A,E,G)        2          29 Aug. 83
9             Bank         Jan./Feb. 84   1          3 (A,E,T)       2            7 Mar. 84
10             Bank         Nov. 84         1         2 (E,T)         2          27 Nov. 84
11             Bank         Apr. 85         1         1 (T)           1          23 May  85
12             Bank         July 85                             none on file
13             Bank         Oct. 85         1         3 (E,G,T)       2           4 Nov. 85
14             Bank         Feb. 86         1         1 (T)            1          11 Mar. 86
15             Bank         Sept 86         1         3 (A,E,G)       3           16 Oct. 86
Total                                                      14                        23
Completion                    Unesco       Feb. 87          4        4 (A,E,IDS,T)  8               Nov. 87
A      * Architect
E      - Economist
G      - General Educator
IDS    a Institution Development Specialist
T      - Technical Educator



-vi -
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.   The project, as appraised in October 1978, had three principal objectives:
(a) improving the quality of and increasing access to primary education; (b) providing
middle-level manpower for the modern industrial sector and (c) creating non-formal
education opportunities in disadvantaged rural areas.
ii.  The Project was designed to be implemented over a period of 66 months]/
and comprised: a) building, furnishing and equipping four vocational institutes (1,900
places) as weil as eight man-years of technical assistance and 60 man-years of
fellowships; b) constructing, furnishing and equipping four primary teacher training
colleges (5W0 places) to incresv;e the output :.f teachers by about 500 per annum;
~) construction, furnishing and equipment necessary for a community development
programme (Promovillage), along with 22 man-months of consulting services, four.
man-years of expert services and seven man-years of fellowships; d) some 4.5 man-
years of technical assistance for educational planning and for the preparation of  I
a future education project; e) some 13.5 man-years of specialist services to the
Project Unit for: assisting in project management, controlling architectural design,
supervisialg construction and coordinating equipment procurement. The technical
assistance included in the project amounted to approximatively 32 man-years.
iii.  The project was successfully implemented on the whole, over a period of
seven years compared to the period of 5.5 years planned at Appraisal. This 27
per cent time overrun was due to delays in awarding contracts and in preparing
the Fourth Education Project. All the physical facilities proposed at Appraisal
(except those related to the Community Development Component) were built,
furnished and equipped. The only notable error was the choice of a tyne of roofing
which had prohibitive maintenance costs. While this was on the whole & creditable
performance, the Project failed to build permanent project implementation capacity
because of the failure to retain local counterpart staff.
iv. Despite the delays, actual Project costs were 31 per cent below the appraisal
estimates in US$ terms, mainly because of major changes in currency exchange
rates during implementation. Unused Loan proceeds amounted to 38 per cent of
the available total of US$24 million.
v.   Educational quality in project institutes is considered to have reached, and
probably surpassed, appraisal expectations. Insteao of training Grade-I teachers
in one year with the "BEPC" (completed Grade 10), the teacher training centres
(CAFOPs) train Grade II teachers in two years with the "baccalaureat" (completed
Grade 13). However, there has been a quantitative shortfall caused by this change
in the programme and by budgetary constraints.  First, because of budgetary
limitations, the total enrolment is not more than approximately 300 trainees in
the four CAFOPs, with consequent high recurrent cost per teacher trainee. Secondly,
the annual output falls below appraisal expectations and thwarts the attainment
of the second objective of the CAFOPs - increasing access to education.
1/ Including one year for completing loan disbursements after overall project
compl etion.



-vii-
vi. The vocational secondari schools (lycees professionnels - LPs) were built
to train skilled middle-level manpower. The Government, in its effort to match
enrolments to the estimated needs of the market, has restricted enrolments which
are now only about 50 per cent of available places. This has helped to intensify
competition for these places and has resulted in a level of educational attainment
among the candidates that is higher than originally foreseen. Thus the LPs will
produce a small number of highly qualified techricians capable of competing with
technicians trained to a nominally higher level. As labour market needs have not
been clearly identified, the graduate of the LPs has no guarantee of employment.
The first graduates of three of the four LPs began appearing on the labour market
in December 1986; and data concerning their placement were not available to
the completion mission.
vii. The current priority is to reduce unit costs by: (a) reducing
the n.mber of expatriate teachers; (b) increasing enrollments so that
the CAFOPs operate at full capacity; (c, maintaining the present level
of internal promotion for lower-level teachers in order to standardize
the primary-teacher profile over the nedium run.



CHAPTER I
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-economic setting
1.01   C8te d'Ivoire has a land area of 324,000 km2, a population of 10.2 million
(World Bank estimates for mid-1985) and a population growth rate of 4.1 per
cent. The GNP per capita was US$720 in 1983 CMte d'lvoire is one of the most
developed countries in West Africa. In 1982 about 62 per cent of the work force
was engaged in agriculture and forestry; mining and manufacturing employed
about 3.5 per cent; service-oriented sectors employed about 20 per cent and
the rest were unemployed. The adult literacy rate is about 35 per cent and life
expectancy at birth is about 47 years - rates which are lower than the average
for countries with a GNP per capita level similar to that of Cote d'lvoire.
1.02   From 1960 to 1980 the GDP grew steadily at seven per cent p6r annum,
and GNP per capita reached US$1,150 in 1980. During the second half of the
1970s, however, economic growth slowed down in the face of a new expanded
public investment programme and an unprecedented succession of exterral shocks.
There was a rapid and severe deterioration of the financial and econom; situation
and even a decline of GNP per capita.
1.03   Since 1981, C6te d'lvoire has adopted a policy of austerity combined
with more prudent public management and incentive programmes. However,
the GNP growth rate has net surpassed (and is unlikely to surpass) the projected
population growth rate over the medium to long term under the existing policy
framework.
The Project
1.04   The Project was prepared by the Government of C8te d'lvoire in
October/November 1977 and appraised in October 1978. The Loan Agreement
was signed on 28 December 1979 and became effective on 10 April 1980.
Project Objectives
1.05   The Project was designed to support the Government's development
strategy for education by (a) improving the quality of primary education and
increasing access to it; (b) relieving shortages of middle-level manpower for
the modern industrial sector; (c) providing non-formal education opportunities
in disadvantaged rural areas; and (d) promoting agricultural development through
improved training programmes for extension staff.



-2-
Project Content
1.06   The Project consisted of the following:
Part A: Constructior furnishing and equipping of four METFP vocational institutes
(1,900 places) to be located in San Pedro, Man, Odienne and Gagnoa, for the
training of persons to become skilled workers or technicians in (i) building
construction and public works; (ii) electrical and mechanical maintenance; (iii)
agro-industry and food processing; and (iv) business and commerce. Provision
of eight man-years of technical assistance expert services and 60 man-years
of fellowships to METf P staff.
Part B: Construction, furnishing and equipping of four primary teacher training
coUeges (580 places) to be located in Odienne, Katiola, Korhogo and Aboisso
to help to achieve a better distribution of such places and to increase the output
of trained teachers by about 500 per year.
Part C: Construction, furnishing and equipping of facilities for a community
development programme, entitled Promovillage unter ONPF, in the Seguela region;
provision of (a) 22 man-months of consulting services for monitoring and evaluation
and four man-years of expert services for design and conduct of training; and
(b) seven man-years of fellowships.
Part D: Provision of 4,5 years of technical assistance expert services for
educational planning and the preparation (including architectural work) of a future
education project.
Part E: Thirteen and one half years of specialists' services (a project manager,
an architect, a civil works advisor and equipment engineer) to the Project Unit
for assisting in (a) Project management, (b) the preparation of architectural
design and procurement documents. and the supervision of procurement and
construction; and (c) purchase of equipment required for this project.
Technical assistance expert services included in the Project amounted to
approximately 32 man-years.
1.07   Cofinancing was provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB) in
the amount of US$19.5 million for construction (LPs at Odienn6 and San Pedro),
and equipment and furniture (LPs at Gagnoa, Man, Odienne, San Pedro).



- 3 -
CHAPTER H
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
2.01  The Project was originally scheduled to be completed in 5.5 years but
implementation took seven years (Annex 1). The Closing Date was postponed
once, from 30 June 1985 to 30 June 1986. Civil works were delayed for about
one year, mainly because of delays in awarding contracts. At the time of the
Completion mission, all the facilities proposed at appraisal (except those related
to the "Promovillage" component which was deleted during implementation)
were completed, equipment installed and in use. However, some of the training
curricula have not been fully developed and the institutions are functioning
with problems of excessive operating costs (LPs) and lack of qualified video
maintenance staff (CAFOP). Another issue of this project is the failure to
build up a permanent project implementation capacity and the risk occasioned
by delays in the preparation of a proposed Fourth Education Project, of losing
the few staff who have acquired experience from their work on this Project.
Project Management
2.02  The First and Second Projects did not build up local project management
capacity because management was delegated to a private consulting firm under
the nominal part-time supervision of the Director of Planning and the Chief
of School Buildings, both within MOE. Under the Third Project, in an effort
to promote local capacity building, the project management arrangements were
redesigned.
2.03  A project unit was established within MOE and, as local staff of SAPE
were very few at the completion of the Second Education Project, the Third
included a total of 13.5 man-years of technical assistance for project management
experts (para. 1.06) who were supposed to be assisted by Ivorian counterparts
no later than 30 June 1981. The major problem concerned staffing by Ivorian
counterparts. At the time of Completion mission all technical assistance had
ended. The situation regarding local staff was mixed. No local architect and/or
civil engineer had been appointed. The educational planner (placed within the
SAPE to help in preparation of a proposed Fourth Education Project) and the
project manager - assisterit to Project Director - had been in post only since
March 1986, nine months before the implementation programme ended. The
counterpart equipment engineer - a young technician - had been appointed in
1982, three years before the !A expert left and had received on-the-job training.
Other key staff (Project Director, accountant and specialists in tendering
procedures) had been in post since 1980/81.
2.04 The reasons for shortcomings in appointing local counterparts for SAPE
were clear. Salaries for civil servants are not competitive with the private
sector. It is difficult to attract civil servants from other ministries (architects
ir civil engineers) for, although MOE salaries are above the salary norms of
other ministries, civil servants from other ministries assigned to MOE must



-4 -
(a) retain their lower salary rates and (b) risk loss of promotion prospects in
their substantive ministry. Thus, in two respects, their situation appears
iniquitous. Finallyj, it seems clear that the effort to find and appoint suitable
counterparts was accorded low priority by the project management. Given
the high cost to the country of failure to build up local management capacity,
it is clear that the Bank needs to take this objective more seriously and include
it as a high priority item in designing conditionality.
Professional Services and Building Design
2.05  Five local consultants (architectural firms) were appointed before Loan
Effectiveness and were responsibbk for the architectural design of the LPs and
the CAFOPs. One architectural firm was responsible for the design of the four
LPs Lind one group of architects was in charge of each of the four CAFOPs.
This was due to the request of the Ivorian Institute of Architects ("ordre des
architectes"), with a view to a more equitable distribution of work. In the case
of the CAFOPs, for the same price, a repetitive design could have been done
by a single firm or, with considerations of equity in mind, by a single consortium.
Some delay resulted during architectural studiE3 of one CAFOP which was due
to the weakness of one of the consulting groups.
2.06 Site supervision was carried out by SAPE, with the assistance of the
regional representative of the Ministry of Public Works in the case of CAFOPs.
The four LPs came under the authority of the "Direction centrale des grands
travaux" (DCGTX) with the assignment of one civil engineer to each site.
2.07  The architectural design iork is generally good, although some problems
exist which could have been avoided with better planning: (a) at the LPs, use
of dining halls is curtailed during the rainy season because of the design of the
open covered area; (b) the dormitory partitioning makes It difficult to adjust
the space allocation for male and female students; (c) there is insufficient
protection against vandalism and stealing; (d) at one LP, the location of the
sports areas close to the buildings without any protection for windows; and
(e) the inadequacy of natural ventilation or lighting in some teaching areas.
2.08 Design of the facilities in the four CAFOPs is good with the exception
of some multipurpose areas such as placing wood work and home economics
in the same area.
Civn Wors and Maintenance
2.09 The civil works contracts were awarded to local contractors after
international competitive bidding for the four LPs and local competitive bidding
for the four CAFOPs. In the four LPs, the quality of building was of a rather
high standard, while that of the four CAFOPs is fairly good, but both construction
and finishing show some weakness.
2.10  The quality of nooring is a problem in all places visited: (a) tiled flooring
is already uneven in many areas; (b) the concrete floors, which were pitched
to collect and drain off water in some workshops, presented difficulties regarding
instaUation and the use of equipment; and (c) the finishing of plastic joints used
for ceramic tiles makes laboratories appear dirty.



-5 -
2.11  Day-to-day maintenance varies among the project institutions according
t Z the users' interest in carrying out maintenance. The upkeep of the LPs is
of a higher standard than that of the CAFOPs, despite the fact that there is
sufficient budget allowed for day workers at the CAFOPs. l/
2.12  A major problem of maintenance in the LPs is related to the roofing.
The choice of a particular type of long span self bearing steel sheet (to effect
some initial savings) requires specialized maintenance. This maintenance is
needed to stay within the terms of the ten year guarantee and has to be done
by a building firm. The budget for this maintenance is at the unusually high
level of about CFAF    7.2 million       per year for each LP. It is clear
that the choice of this kind of roofing was an error.
2.13 For the LP of San Pedro, although funds were available, complementary
work (sports area, further drainage, the installation of a generator) was never
done. Negotiations were protracted by the reluctance of the contractor to
undertake minor supplementary work in remote areas and therefore the contract
was not signed by the time of the Closing Date of the Loan Account. 2/
Equipment
2.14 Teaching materials, laboratories and workshops are of good quality and
ample quantity, but not always well suited to the school. This, in some cases,
results in their underutilization. At Gagnoa, for example, there is a computer
room where all micro-computers are equipped with a printer. If fewer printers
had been purchased, each micro-computer could have been equipped with a
memory capable of accommodating the most common accounting software.
At Man, the purchase of a numerical command milling machine was unjustified;
Ivorian Industry possesses no such machines for the moment and this purchase
represents prestige without educational value. The audio-visual equipment,
ample and of good quality, was chosen according to precise pedagogical
objectives, but in fact is used seldom or not at all. 3/
Furniture
2.15 The quality of furniture design and workmanship is good.
Tecimcal Aistance
2.16 The implementation of the technical assistance programme is tabulated
in Annex 2. Delays in recruiting technical assistance experts for LPs were
due, on the one hand, to general delays in implementing the LPs and, on the
other hand, to protracted negotiations with ILO. There were delays in sending
trainee teachers in the Training Centres of the ILO (Milan) and ENITIAA (Nantes)
which were due to prior delays in the civil works of the LPs and to the fact
that entry requirements for the trainee teachers were higher than those originally
anticipated.
1/ ONFP has assigned a maintenance team to each LP and exact maintenance pro-
cedures have been formulated for each school, according to comments from
the Borrower (see page 46, Borrower's Comments).
2/  The Borrower adds that the complementary works that could not be done
involve the San Pedro LP as well as those in Gagnoa and Man, and that the
delays in preparing the contracts were not attributable to the firms selected.
3/  See last note on page 46, Borrower's Comments.



-6 -
"Promovilage"
2.17  At appraisal this component was supposed to be implemented by the
"Office national de la promotion rurale" (ONPR), a specialized agency in the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The component was to have been implemented
in three phases. The first phase - evaluation of the ongoing pilot project in
the Boundiali region - was completed at the end of 1980. The second phase
- survey of the new project area in the Seguela region - was finalized in May
1981. The third phase - implementation of training and community development
programmes - never got underway because of the dissolution af the ONPR on
15 July 1981.
2.18 The responsibility for implementing the component was transferred to
the "Direction du developpement regional" (DDR), a dependency of the Ministry
of Planning and Industry. The necessary manpower and the provision of a relevant
budget within the DDR never materialised. No work was done on this component
after 1983, but no formal request for its deletion was made by the Government
or by the Bank. Consequently, it was agreed later between Bank and Government
to devote any undisbursed funds to the other components of the Project nearing
completion.
Educational Planning and Project Preparation
2.19  Major objectives of the proposed fourth education project were (a) to
improve MOE management, planning, budgeting and maintenance capacities;
and (b) to upgrade the quality of education, particularly of mathematics and
science teaching. The Third Project included financing for preparing this proposed
project.
2.20 Preparation was hampered mainly by the economic crisis which forced
the Ministry of Finance to freeze the projects under preparation during 1984.
Delays during this period were used to revise the project, mainly by introducing
the maintenance component and deleting new construction which would generate
substantial recurrent costs. A formal Loan Application was finally sent to the
Bank in November 1985 and the Project was appraised in June 1986.
2.21  Other difficulties occurred during project preparation. The Government
and the Bank differed in their definition of priorities. While the Government
was against training more persons than the Government felt there were jobs
for, it maintained a policy of reduced use of facilities and this occasioned high
unit costs. The Bank insisted on reducing unit cost (including the possibility
of fully using the facilities).
2.22  In 1983 the three ministries involved in education were consolidated
into a new Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research. This
unification of the administration of the sector formed a basic assumption in
designing the components of the proposed fourth education project. The
ministerial restructuring in July 1986, which divided this ministry into four
- (i) primary education; (ii) national education; (iii) technical education and
vocational training and (iv) scientific research - meant another change that
would make the implementation of the proposed fourth education project
dependent in some measure on coordination arrangements among the ministries
involved in the project.



-7.*
2.23  FinaUy, during the preparation of the proposed fourth project, the
construction programme that had been tentatively envisaged was reduced, thus
reducing the need for the architectural services included in the Third Project
for this purpose.
Covenants
2.24  Most of the covenants included in the Loan Agreement have been
satisfactorily fulfilled (Annex 3), with the following noteworthy exceptions:
(a)   Advisory Committees were established in accordance with section 3.04
(b) of the Loan Agreement in each LP. However there was delay of one
or two years because physical implementation had been delayed.
(b)   The strengthening of the Central Office of the METFP, so that it might
help place students from the LPs on practical work assignments has not
been accomplished. This duty was undertaken in the past by the "Office
national de la formation professionnelle" (ONFP) jointly with the "Office
de la main-d'oeuvre de C8te-d'lvoire" (OMOCI), but coordination problems
arose. The "Institut national de la formation technique et profes-
sionnelle (INFTP)" to be created within the METFP in 1987, is
supposed to undertake this task; 1/
(c)   According to one covenant (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement), the
Borrower was supposed to provide qualified Ivorian counterpart staff
for the project manager, civil works advisor and equipment engineer;
they were only recruited at the end of the Project;
(d)   According to section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement the borrower was
supposed to operate educational institutions with due regard to economy.
Considering the large underutilization and the overstaffing of the facilities
(para. 4.02, 4.08, 4.09, 4.16, 4.17 and 4.20 of this Report), this covenant
has to be regarded as not having been fulfilled. 3f
1/ The Borrower comments that "The identification and monitoring of the prac-
tical work assignments for the students were handled by the SERFEs of the
LPs. The role of the ONFP was limited to arranging accommodations for the
SERFEs on mission in Abidjan.  The OMOCI was not responsible for any of
these tasks."
2/  The Borrower comments that "The borrower operated the schools with due
regard for economy, taking into account the absorption capacity of the
labor force. As a result, the increase in student enrollment was inten-
tionally slowed down and the facilities were consequently operated at
less than full capacity."



-8 -
CHAPTER m
COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
CosXt and Financing
Costs
3.01  The total actual project cost is estimated at US$58,435 thousand, which
is US$26,505 thousand (31 per cent) below the original estimate of
US$84,940 thousand. The tables below summarize estimated and actual costs
by category of expenditure (Table 3.1) and by item (Table 3.2).
Table 3.1
Summa of Estimated and Actual Project Costs by Categoy
(in US$000, including contingencies and tax)
Appraisal           Actual        Diffirence %
Civil works                    58,705              36,787            -37
Architectural services          3,200               1,736            -46
Furniture                       2,790               1,908            -32
Equipment                      14,095              13,872             -2
Specialist services             4,475               2,861            -36
Fellowships                       805                 690            -14
Administration                    870                 XOx            -33
Total Project Cost             84,940              58,435            -31
Table 3.2
Summa  of Estimated and Actual Proiet Costs by Item
(in US$000, including ontingencies and taxes)
Appraisal           Actual       Difference %
LPs                            65,960           47,854.2             -27
CAFOPs                         12,785             7.950.3            -38
"Promovillage"?                 2,430               139.2            -94
Project Preparation             1,045               426.7            -59
Project Unit                    2,720             2,064.6            -24
Total Project Cost             84,940              58,435            -31
3.02  The main reasons for the lower project cost were (a) the fact tha:.
most of the project expenditure (92%) was made in CFAF during a period
of a rapid rise in the US$ in relation to local currency; (b) the reduction in
the use of specialist services and (c) the deletion of the community development
item (Promovillage).



9 -
3.03   The table in Annexes 4a and 4b compare appraisal and actual costs
(expressed in US$ and in CFAF) and Annex 4c compares unit costs.
3.04   Expressed in  local currency, the actual project cost of CFAF
21,032,063,243 showed an increase of 13 per cent compared with the cost
(CFAF 18,686,800,000) estimated at appraisal.
3.05   Global costs of construction  were  not substantially  different
from appraisal estimates despite an increase of 10 per cent in areas for
the LPs and of 18 per cent for the CAFOPs (Annex 5) added to which were
delays of six to nine months behind the implementation schedule in starting
the construction.  While this suggests some appraisal overestimation of
construction costs, it resulted in part from the reduction in prices brought
about by fierce competition among construction firms during the economic
downturn which had witnessed a reduction in the number of available
construction jobs.
3.06   Costs of construction  were  respectively  CFAF 206,000/m2  for
the LPs and CFAF 161,000/m2 for the CAFOPs, a difference which reflects
the difference in construction standards.
3.07   The cost of furniture in local currency terms was 12 per cent over
the appraisal estimate, mostly because of an underestimation of furniture
needed for the Business and Commerce LP of Gagnoa.
3.08   The cost of equipment was 61 per cent over appraisal estimates.
This cost overrun was due to (a) a price increase of goods due to delays
in implementation; (b) increased availability of funds arising from the
change in exchange rates of the US$ which made possible (i) the purchase
of new equipment for the LPs and CAFOPs, (ii) the purchase of a stock
of supplies and materials for the four LPs which lacked an adequate recurrent
budget for these items, and (iii) the undertaking (for one year) of maintenance
costs of equipment for the four LPs. The costs shown under equipment
also include maintenance costs for buildings for one year in the case of the
four LPs.
3.09   The cost of professional services was 11 per cent under appraisal
estimates, mainly because of the underutilisation of the provision for
architectural services in the preparation of the Fourth Project.
3.10   The cost of technical assistance was five per cent over appraisal
estimates. Major increases relate to expert services for SAPE (+27%) and
the LPs (+36%) and the fellowship component (+33%). In the case of SAPE,
the term of the technical assistance experts was extended because of: (a)
dc lays in implementation; and (b) the failure to provide lccal counterpart
staff on schedule. Concerning the technical assistance for the LPs component,
the price increase in CFAF was due to: (a) an underestimation of the cost
of ILO experts; and (b) additional technical assistance deemed necessary to
complete the technical work and to assist in the start up of the LPs.
3.11   The cost of fellowships exceeded appraisal estimates (a) because
there were delays in finding trainees with the necessary qualifications; and
(b) becausefurther training was needed for the teacher trainees at Odienn6.



- 10 -
3.12   The increase in the cost of administration  (+24%) was attributed
to delays in implementation.
3.13   On the whole, therefore, while major distortions appear in both CFAF
and dollar terms, the project performance on cost was a creditable one.
Financing
3.14   The original and the revised allocation of Loan proceeds compared
with the actual disbursement figure is shown in basic data (page (v)). A
breakdown of the original financing plan and actual contribution is shown in
Annex 6.
3.15   Expressed in percentages, the comparison between project financing
sources is as follows:
AppraisalIAta                      Difference.
Estimates        Actual               inc%
Government                       49                47                -4
World Bank                       28                26                -7
African Development Bank         23                27               +17
Total                           100               100                 0
3.16 The increase in the African Development Bank participation is due mainly
to a major contribution in equipment financing and to the fact that in US$
terms the overall World Bank financing declined.
Disbuements
3.17    Some US$14,96 million of the 24 million Loan was disbursed. The
difference of US$9,04 million has been cancelled.
3.18    As Annex 7 shows, actual disbursements lagged behind the appraisal
estimates. This was because of (a) the delays in physical implementation and
(b) lower than expected project costs.



- 11 -
CHAPTER IV
PROJECT OUTCOMES
4.01   Viewed as a whole at this early stage, the educational impact of this project
would have to be considered less (in quantitative terms - See Annex 8), and more
(in qualitative terms), than was expected at appraisal. It is clear, however, that
a later study of impact would be needed to assess the effects of some of the new
trends in educational programmes, lifelong education and applied research in the
LPs.
Vocational Secondary Schools (LPs)
4.02   Enrolments have not reached original expectations (Annex 9) and are not
likely to increase while the labour market remains depressed. The number of
teaching staff is more than sufficient, thanks mainly to bilateral assistance.
Internal efficiency is high, because in general the students' academic background
is stronger than was originally expected. External productivity, according to
LP staff, is generally acceptable but could be improved. The significant changes
have been in regard to educational programmes. See also page 47 of Borrower
Comments.
Educational Programmes
4.03   The organization of the programmes has followed the original plan, in
particular the division into three full-time training modules, separated by two
periods of on-the-job training. The educational importance of on-the-job experience
is fully recognized, but it is difficult to find internships for all students and the
main effort is devoted to finding end-of-training jobs. Furthermore, there have
been delays in establishing various streams and in the hiring of executive secretaries
in the job-training service (SERFE) that is respinsible for contacts with industry.
But the interest shown by employers during tie forum on LPs held in Abidjan,
16-19 February, 1987) suggests that this situation may soon be improved.
4.04   The subjects taught and the amount of class time (40 hrs/week), as well
as the calibre of the teaching staff (para. 4.09), make the training programmes
approximately equivalent to the level of schooling indicated by a "brevet de
technicien" (BT or completed Grade 13). One exception is the secretarial stream
(administrative techniques) at Gagnoa, which is competitive with lower-level
programmes (CAP, BEP) and with LP programmes at Yopougon. This overlapping
situation could have been foreseen at the outset of the project, and the cost of
establishing the duplicate programme could have been avoided. However, plans
exist to convert this stream to administrative training. 1/
4.05   The delays observed during the supervision mission in the preparation
of programmes (such as the public works stream at San Pedro, commerce at Gagnoa)
resulted not only from problems in recruiting teachers, but also from fears expressed
by the METFP over the employment situation in these sectors. The programme
development procedures implemented by the ONFP have been particularly
cumbersome: the subcontracting of studies or the insufficient participation of
IPNETP and LP teachers have lengthened delays in establishing the programmes,
without improving them. See also page 4 7, Borrower Comments.
1/ The Borrower comments: The training in office technology at the (agnoa LP
as part of its administrative techniques stream since its opening (word pro-
cessing, data entry, electronic keyboard) has not been provided either by
the schools giving courses leading to the CAP and BEP or bv the Yopougon LP.



- 12 -
4.06   At the time of the mission, some modules were still to be implemented:
(a)    in Man, new modules (mechanics and electricity) should start in October
1987;
(b)    in San Pedro, the publics works programme is under preparation and should
start within two years;
(c)    in Od4ienne, the programmes for animal foodstuffs, production  and
distribution of fluids, and cold storage maintenance are being prepared.
Admission Policy and Enrolments
4.07   There is no student recruitment problem as far as entrance to the LPs
is concerned. The candidates usually have a higher level of schooling than the
minimum required which is completed grade 10, many having completed grade
13. Admission standards are all the stricter for the fact that the number of students
accepted is voluntarily lHmited to 40 per cent of enrolment capacity, rising to
60 per cent for 1989 (Annex 9). This Government decision, largely endorsed by
the staff of the LPs, is aimed at relating the output of the LPs to the quantitative
needs of the job market. These needs, however, have not been clearly identified.
Only the short-term needs of industry can be determined, and the ONFP's macro-
economic analysis of the demand for manpower is not very reliable at the level
of detail necessary to determine the number of students in each stream  to the
nearest dozen.
4.08   The small student body of the LPs results, therefore, in significant
underutilization of teaching staff, equipment and physical plant, without necessarily
guaranteeing a job for each graduate.y
Teaching staff
4.09   Teachers are recruited on the basis of professional experience and possession
of a diploma at least equivalent to that of a technician certificate. This has
permitted the creation of a high-quality faculty, but has also caused some
difficulties in the recruiting of national specialists for whom the private sector
is more attractive. There appears to be too great a dependence on technical
assistance staff, and too feeble an effort to train the national personnel destined
to replace it. There is no plan to end the use of technical assistance staff before
1989, in spite of the fact that IPNETP interns are already working in the LPs.
Teachers are required to teach for 20 hours (class time) per week. Even taking
account of the commitment to small-group teaching or of the variety of areas
of specializetion in the third module, the schools are overstaffed. The overall
student-teacher ratio rarely exceeds 5:1 (Annexes 9 and 10).
4.10   Administrative and maintenance personnel available in the LPs fulfill
their duties satisfactorily, as affirmed by LP directors. The only difficulty at
the moment involves audio-visual personnel; there is a problem of management
and of use of the equipment. More intensive use of teachers of general subjects
should help solve this problem.
1/   Borrower cites same note as for para. 2.24(d).



- 13 -
Internal Efficiency
4.11   More than 90 per cent of the students complete their training programmes
on schedule, except for the first class in administrative techniques at Gagnoa,
where the 40 per cent success rate is explained by the weaker scholastic background
of students accepted for entrance and by the teachers' lack of training in
stenography. Entrance requirements in general have been rising and students
are increasingly being admitted who have completed the upper secondary level
(completed grade 13). Internal efficiency is therefore good. This high internal
efficiency results in some measure from the guidance given to students between
each training module.
External Efficiency
4.12   The first graduates at the lyc6es of Gagnoa, Man and San Pedro arrived
on the labour market in December 1986. As of February 1987, data concerning
the placement of these students were not available. Despite the diminishing number
of students trained at each lycee and especially at San Pedro, it is quite probable
that a certain number of young graduates will not find jobs during their first few
months after graduation. This does not mean, however, that the external efficiency  I
of the LPs is low; it is impossible to judge the job market reaction to LP graduates
until they have worked for a while. Companies, furthermore, must choose between
recruiting newly formed technicians and promoting their own workers and qualified
employers.
4.13   The care taken in the placement of students - by the METFP as well as
by LP teachers - and the recent establishment of ISERFEs and "Conseils consultatifs"
in each lyc6e, permit the establishment of close ties with industry. This involves
the search for internships, which may constitute a pre-recruitment of students
and entail an effort to develop specialisation modules adapted to the demands
of the job market. The external efficiency will depend, finally, on the capacity
of the LPs to maintain and develop these special ties with C8te-d'Ivoire industries.
iPerspectives
4.14   From a strictly financial point of view, the ur leruse of the LP facilities
and the high teacher:student ratio represent a unit cost which is unjustifiable
(Annex 11). But the evaluation of the LPs must take into account the evolution
of the economic, social and national situation since the end of the 1970s, as well
as the special dynamics of the first years of operating the schools. The potential
which exists in the LPs, if it cannot be fully used for initial training, may be put
to use in complementary activities, such as upgrading training for employed persons
and service activities which may further reinforce the ties between the lyc6es
and the professional environment. Such supplementary training programmes,
already underway at Gagnoa and et Odienne - established according to the original
plan for the LPs, and on the condition that they continue to develop - are likely
not only to furnish complementary resources for the schools, but also to make
profitable use of the teaching potential and the equipment which is currently
underutilized. Service activities, insofar as they exist and can be developed at
Man and Odienn6 - ploughshares at Man, water analysis and food products at Odienne
- are created at the initiative of the LPs as well as of industry personnel or local
collectives. In addition to producing an income for the schools, these activities
reinforce the teaching activities.



-14 -
4.15   In short, the LPs, under the combined influence of the entering candidates'
higher level of schooling and restraints on enrolment, will produce a small number
of highly qualified technicians capable of competing with technioians trained
to a nominally higher level (BTS). It is assumed that the number of LPs will remain
the same and that they will continue to work towards their goal of national
recruitment. The fact that some interns from other African countries are already
present can be considered in this regard a positive development.
Primary Teacher Trainin Colleges (CAFOPs)
Admission Policy and Enrolments
4.16   These Centres were originally intended to provide one year of training
for Grade I teachers (instituteurs adjoints) holding the BEPC (Brevet d'etudes
du premier cycle), or Grade 10 graduates. But even before the four CAFOPs
included in the project were opened, plans for their enrolments and programmes
had been considerably modified. The CAFOPs are now recruiting persons holding
the baccalaureat (upper secondary school graduation), and the duration of the
course has been extended from one to two years. According to the authorities,
this x hange is justified by the need to improve the quality of education and to
accord priority in the matter of employment to persons who have passed the
baccalaureat, since such persons are finding it increasingly difficult to seizure
jobs.
4.17   This decision is explained by the economic situation. Indeed, the constraints
imposed by (he economic crisis led the Government of C8te-d'Ivoire to reduce
the recruitment of trainee teachers. The number of trainees recruited at the
start of the new academic year in 1986 was restricted to a total of 300 for all
the CAFOPs, although the total country requirements are estimated to be at least
lbOOO. These decisions increase the unit cost of training teachers, and they also
slow down the rate of return on the investments made.lVIf it is assumed that the
number of teaching posts will remain frozen at a fairly low level, two of the 13
existing CAFOPs will suffice to train all primary school teachers, which will suggest
that the remaining CAFOPs should be turned over to other purposes (Annex 12).
Access to Education
4.18   The Government of C8te-d'Ivoire has adopted the position that access
to education is useless unless it leads to employment. Under this philosophy, once
the State appears to be no longer capable of guaranteeing the right to employment,
it is led to abandon the principle of universalization of education. In its view
"education for all" which does not lead to the acquisition of a skilled job only
hastens the decline in the status of agricultural work (which it attributes to
education) and swells the number of precarious service jobs in cities for young
people ejected from the education system at the end of the primary cycle. This
is no academic discussion, for the assumptions of the Government affect its
willingness to increase the resources flowing to primary education.
1/   Borrower comments propose the paragraph be reworded as follows:  If it is
assumed that the number of teaching posts will remain frozen at a fairly low
level, four CAFOPs with a capacity of 144 trainees each or two with a capacity
of 288 trainees each of the 13 existing CAFOPs will suffice to train the pri-
mary school teachers given the budgetary constraints and planne1 numbersof
government workers in accordance with the economic recovery measures recom-
mended by the IMF and lWorld Bank.



- 15 -
Regional Impact
4.19   The regional vocation of the CAFOPs and their impact on disadvantaged
regions has not been demonstrated. New teachers are assigned to posts in
disadvanl aged regions but are able to transfer easily into schools in the towns
after a few years. The CAFOPs do not provide general pedagogical support to
the primary schools in the region as the Appraisal Report assumed, but use, for
evident economic reasons, schools in the neighbourhood for teaching practice.
One of tne four CAPOPs has courses for the in-service training with a view to
upgrading Grade: teachers to Grade II See also Borrower comnents p. 43.
4.20   The higti ratio of administrative and educational staff in the CAFOPs
results in high recurrent costs (Annex 13). The staffing level is that appropriate
to a "full load" situAation, whereas the centres are operating at only half their
capacity. According to the project design, Grade I teachers (paid half as much
as Grade II teachers) should have been recruited and the CAFOPs should have
operated at their full capacity. This would have kept unit costs at a reasonable
level and halted the decline in the enrolment ratio in the rural areas (Annex 14). 1,
Perspectives
4.21   The Ministry of Primary Education is at present envisaging inct easing
the enrolment of the CAFOPs by training primary teachers to be emr:oyed in
the private primary education sector. Analysis of the needs of this sector is just
starting, but there is no doubt that this will have an impact on unit costs as weil
as on the quality of the teachers. 2/
1/   Borrower comments proposes following rewording:  Despite the financial
constraints imposed by the economic crisis, the CAFOPs should operate at
full capacity, as decided at the outset, in order to reduce unit costs
and maintain the current level of the enrollment ratio.
2/   Also proposed by the Borrower:  The Ministry of Primary Education is at
present studying the possibility of increasing the enrollment of the CAPOPs
in line with budgetary constraints and public resources. The recent mea-
sures taken by the Head of State at the beginning of the 1987-88 school year
to prepare 2,001 "bacheliers" (instead of the 300 originally envisaged)
suggests that this effort will be continued and eventually have an impact on
unit costs while safeguarding the quality of the teachers.



-16 -
CHAPTER V
BANK PERFORMANCE
Project Generation
5.01 The Bank's involvement in generating the Third Education Project was
positive. This project corresponded to the needs of the C6te-d'Ivoire. It was
difficult or even impossible when the Project was designed to have anticipated
the economic crisis and its repercussions on the budget and to have anticipated
the nature of the Government's reaction to it. While the Third Project represented
a bold and commendable effort to build local project management capacity,
it is clear in hindsight that these ~easures needed to be supported by appropriate
conditions.
l
Project Inplementation
5.02 During implementation major problems arose in which the Bank performance
was mixed. To its credit, the Bank expressed its concern over the provision of
counterparts within the SAPE, and over the delay and the unnecessary cost of
producing new curricula instead of adapting existing ones for the third year
programme in the LPs. However, there were no apparent results of Bank concern
in these areas. On the other hand, the Bank failed to identify in good time the
situation of duplication of secretarial streams in LPs (Gagnoa ai.d Yopougon)
and to identify the somewhat concealed effect on recurrent costs arising from
the choice of a particular kind of roofing for the LPs.



- 17 -
CHAPTER VI
CONCLUS1ONS AND LESSONS
6.01  The problem of inefficiency in the use and maintenance of CAFOP facilities
stresses the importance of providing training and orientation o, the managerial
staff in these areas. 1/
6.02  While it is commendable to require trained teachers to be posted to rural
*             areas as a step toward achieving equity between rural and urban areas in the supply
of qualified teachers, a further step is needed, as the experience here shows, in
regard to requiring them to serve a reasonable minimum of time in the rural areas
before being eligible for posting to the towns. 2/
6.03  The underutilization of project facilities in vocational education and teacher
training and the high recurrent costs in these project institutions suggest that
there are serious underlying problems of policy regarding the response of the
education system  to the economic downturn and to the burgeoning output of        I
secondary schools. This project experience highlights the excessive cost of
postponing the resolution of this problem of policy which is faced by several
countries.
6.04  The budgetary and staffing arrangements for the maintenance of equipment
and physical facilities are not working well in all cases and some study of this
situation is warranted.
6.05  Among the measures needed to promote the success of the vocational
secondary schools are: (a) limiting them to their present number and coordinating
their programmes so as to avoid overlap with other technical education institutions;
(b) maintaining their relative autonomy as well as their internal functioning
flexibility; and (c) guaranteeing that their functioning budget will stay at least
at its actual level.
6.06  The difficulties experienced in attracting and retaining good local staff
in the Project Unit suggest the urgency of purposeful consultation among the
Ministries concerned (Public Service, Finance, Primary Education, Secondary
and Higher Education, Vocational Training and Technical Education), on the status
of members of the unit. In order to retain their services, a balance will have
to be reached between better remuneration for the work performed and a successful
integration into existing structures.
6.07 The experience of this project, moreover, indicates the importance of
establishing, as a pre-condition of launching project implementation, the design
of arrangements to ensure the eventual provision of permanent capacity for the
implementation of development programmes including, as this case shows, the
provision of conditions to attract and retain the necessary qualified national staff
to this service.
1/  The Borrower notes:  It is unlikely that the inefficiency in the use of
CAPOP facilities is directly associated with a lack of training on the
part of managerial staff. Howe.ver, inadequate maintenance may be due in
part to a lack of training of maintenance workers but also and especially
to hudeetarv cnnctraint".
2/   The Borrower suggests the following rewording:  It is recommended that
measures existing even before the Third Project be strengthened, particu-
larly the granting of a hardship allowance for teachers working in dis-
advantaged rural areas in order to achieve equity between rural and urban
areas.



-19 -
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.     Comparison between estimated and actual implementation schedule.
2.    Implementation of technical assistance (specialist services and fellowsh.ps).
3.     Fulfilment of Covenants.
L.a    Summary of estimated and actual project costs (in US$)
4.b    Summary of estimated and actual project costs (in CFAF).
4.c    Comparison of originaily estimated and actual unit areas and unit costs
for new institutions
5.     Comparison of originally estimated and actually provided gross construction
areas.
6.     Financing plan.
7.     Comparison between estimated and actual disbursement schedule.
8.     Comparison of student places originally planned for, student places actually
made available and actual enrollments
9.     Enrolments (LPs).
10.    Teaching and administrative staff (LPs).
11.    Recurrent cost per institution and per student (LPs).
12.    Enrolments (CAFOPs).
13.    Teaching and administrative staff (CAFOPs).
14.    Recurrent cost per institution and per student (CAFOPs).



CISISI  IIElEN ESTIITED AIn ACTM INENTATIU SOHEDULE
|C-l-dbr   Year/Ann*    o il.                                           1980              1%0l             1987              1981             1Q84              198S              l98*
.' ,,r  ro MfI t   Aft21 *1  't I?                                             4      11)I|4           I l1l 121 1                          111             1 1 1              1    1
OemCRe                                                                                                                                                               - _ I  _ I       
U..~ ~ ~~O
aii.                                                                                                                                                          - _   -_.'.-  
s
aup.tIFwIRIt.ult.e  Ve8  - Equuip CN.   n.g  F _e *_
$ws1&1  sfw¢*   be* TOOM14.    son oled o                                                                                                                      * 
Sp."CoctIeS IrCRI Aba   . tetRqu b   *.
reqac.                       . IO"
tpI..RbIt# Ro..tS                                                                                     __         _
SfeCeP    1     S    .t n ass         S . Fog"=on
slt aol._ 
M. 
ao 10s1 _-I t  
r..erel 1S..w --
squlImm  F.aemt.Ilqle..EA"t  U lie                              ;_
Sp.I.kIt   ,.I...IA..lt a..  ?wRelq.. |
Field| UeaeqofjCef dOpOrt   *^t      e oe|l                                            
ftelaI1"f* 1peeltSpceIt  en  .se   ee
PSI~ ~     ~ i_ h p I                                                                                                       I                 I        I e
e* ~    ~       ~     ~      . .me&no      Xfe1   uf   1^r                                                                  _ ______
Xw | w~~P                      .. e u   *t o$n                                                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _| _ _ _- _- _I _ _
PleiCdI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4----* Nee,*tt*-t*.  trnsmAle, men,.,*    g,   ,
*I *4P'~ *flSA**l*R,jIf'SS. - .. ...Ir.e... I-z
'qn,npp.  Iinhn,'iltpvi hv thf  MwiR^:nn-



Annex 2
- 22 -
I olaentation of S ehnle  JJsitatnces   Metlltst 3r iee  *n *sllowaht W )/
Number of                      Starting          Cost
Specialists/   Total           date/             (USW$  000)2 "
Project Component/                                     Nombre de       man-_onths/    Date de            Coats
Elument du Drd et         Title/Titre                  aodcialistes  Koia-hc- S        dmaarraae         (milliers de $EU)
Estia. Actual  E.      AuJ... Actual  Eutim.  Actual    Istim.    Actuali'
Sb eid sta 3ervicea*                                                                             23 6tS
=S14.21HOS l4   eenultants                                                                                (4l( 475)   (2 861)
Vocational Training       Technical-vocational          4      4        96    120      Apr 82  Jan 84        880
Institutes/               Educators/Experts en                                                            (1 089)   (914.8)
Lycdes protessionnels    formation professionnelle
Comunity Development/   Field Manager/                  1      0        24       0     Jan 81  -             220
Promovillage              Chef dop4ration                                                                    (273)       (0)
Training Specielist/         1      0         24      0      Jan 81  -             220
Sp4cialiste en formation                                                          (273)        (0)
Evaluation specialists/      -       1        22      17     Jan 80  Jan 80        265
Specialistes en 6valuation                                                        (328)    (95.0)
Educational Planning      Educational Planners and    -        1        54      41     Apr 80  Aug 83        530
Project Preparation       Economists/                                                                        (656)   (405.2)
Planification de l'Edu-  Planificateurs de
cation at pr6paration   ldducation et kconomistes
de projet
Project Management/       Project Manager/              1      1        54      78     Jan 80  Jul 80        490
Gestion du projet         3estionnaire                                                                       (607)
Architect/Architects         1       1        i8      66     Oct 80  Jul 81        170
(210)
Civil Works Adviser/         1       1        42      48     Jan 80  Jan 80        380
Conseiller en gdnie civil                                                         (470)
Equipment Engineer/          1       1        36     62      Jan 80  Apr 80        320
Ing4nieur en dquipement                                                           (396)
Equipment Consultants/       -                12      5      Jan 80  May 80        140
Conseillers en equipement                                            /Aug 83      (173)
(Sub-Total)                                                                     (1 857)   (I 446)
Fellowships/              For the training of                                                                 0.6
ourses                    Ivorian Staft as                                                                   (0.8)    (0.69)
i instructors                40              480             1981-2
and administrators           20              240             1980
end
. coinunity development
agents                       20               84
Stages de personnel
ivoirnin on tant qua forma-
teurs et administrateurs at
agents pour It program* de
ddveloppement comunautaire.
Total               4 215
(5 275)   (3 551)
tY  Base cost, 30 June 1979/ Coat de base 30 juin 1979.
Costs in parenthesis include contingencies end taxes. Contingencies have boen distributed proportionately by the
Completion Mission, but this is not perfectly accurate as under the original calculation, the contingencies would
have varied with time.
Entre parenthises les coats compronne-t les impr4vus et les taxes. Les impr4vus et leas taxes ont t r4partis
proportionnellement par la Mission d'Achkvement, ce qui n'est pas totalesent exact pulsqu'ils ont vari au cours
de la p4riode de wise en oeuvre du projet.
2/ Only actual costs with contingencies and taxes have been communicated by the SAFE to th Miesion.
Souls lea coats rdels comprenant lcs impr&vua et les taxes out Wt  eo_muniquds & la Mission.



-  23  -                                                                   Annex I
Page 1/2
_   *utIr     r oft     .  o   tof   Z6a  4r_
RhlLetiioindeClmie go I bocoe  do Prft
in Loan
Agrteent/                                                                                                                PCR
Section de                                                                                                               para.M. /
l lAcord   SUMary DescrLption                                                       Achievement                          Par. Rapport
de nrSt    DoserLotion  o maire                                                     Reallsatlon                          d aChevegent
3.04  (a)  FolloesUbp  for suitably qualftied personS for training
program  to be awerded not later tnan 31 Dee 1981.                      P4lfilled with delay.                2.15
(b)   AdwLsero  eo¢otttea, advising on eurriculAs contents and                Delay of one or two years
assistig in the placement af StjdeOtn, to be establLshed at             beca4ae physieal implementation   2.23(i)
each of the vocational lnstttites not later than 31 Dec 1981.           had been delayed.                    and 4.13
(e)   At least one qualiied staff    er  to provide students witn
information on training prograas. career opportinities and
etployotent vaCancies to be appointed not later than 30 Sept 1983. Flftilled.                                4.13
(d)   StreagthemU_  of the Central office within M!TFP for placing            Yot achtieved because
students of vocational institutes in practieal work assign-             of lack of coordination               2.23(t1)
antU, not later then 30 Sept 1983.
(e)   Statftg plan for the ftrst threo years of operation of t4e
four vocational institutes to be tarnished to the Bank far
coment at least 12 months before opening.                               FAlfiled                              4.02
3.05       ?erat of roferee for tracer studies evaluating the effctive-
ness of eMployer Partictpation In developing work-ortented
training programs and the placement of graduates tn jobs to te
farnished to the Bank for coment not later than 30 June 1984.
Studies to be completed not later than 30 June 1986 and
res3lts to be furnished to the Bank for its eoments.                    Filftiled with delay                  4.33
3.06      T?ee  of refeeW  of the ewulatiom  sttdy of the "Proao-
villaget pilot project to be furnished to the BSan for its
agreement. The results of sach evaliatton study to be
reviewed by the Borrower and the 8ank not later than
30 Jmne 1980.                                                           Fulftilled at the end of 1980.        2. 6
3.07       ProJect  tit full tim  statf to be expanded not 'ater tan
30 June 1981 and at best untl: Project completion, to inCl4de
qualifted Tvorian cointerpart staff to t'.e project tanager^
the civil works adviser and tie  q4ipaent engineer.                     Not yet comp:etely fulfilled.         1.z?
3.08 (a)   Plans, Specifications, reports, contraot doc~entm and
constr-ctlon and procArement sce-dsles rar the Pra.e'tt. and
any eaterta1 modifications t'-rvof fr additions ttrito :
be furnished to the Sanik promptly ipon tneir preparattin.                i;::ed
(b)   Reoords amd piooeurea ederq sate to  ecord and -onn:tr
the progress of tho Proaect nlcliding Its Cost and the
benetits to be derived frem ;t1. to ilentify the gS:os and
services financed out Of t:e pr'cieds of the L::n. and to
disclose their ise in the Pr:,ect to be  uintatned.  vurnisn
to the Bank all such  nrfar%stion at regALar intervals.                  Fit;fi:ed.
(a)   Report co  the ezeution afl  inittal operation if the Projct,
its cost and the benefits lerlv-d and to be dertved fr,f it,
the perfrmance by the Borrvwer and the Sank of their riespctive
Obligations under the L2an Agreement and the accoapllsnmsent if
the p4rposes of the Loan ta oe prepared and farntshed to tne Sank
promptly after coapletton iO the Project end not later tnan sit   Project Completion Report
months after the Closing Date.                                           beting prepared.
3.09        Actions as shall ba necessary to acqitre, if and when needed.
all such 1 _ and rtShts in respect of lend as shall be
reqitred for the constriction 'and operation) ot the facilities
included in the Project to be taken or caused tO be taken.               Flfillled.



A   2s2
-  24  -                                                             Pag   2
LA Loma
4r.e--nt/       
Section dO                                                                                                              ;ara.4o.
l acore  3Svmy DeasriptLon                                                         AchLevesent                          Par. apport
tt Jrai    ot viatioo snairr                                                       Pia&lsotLon                          V criv*ieir
4.01 (a)   Ueiin to r6lat the oastieina. resweOM  e_ tW98.
in respect ot the Project, at the lepartoents or agenctes Of
tho Oerrowr responsbleo for carrying o t thie Project or any
part theWect, tO be mLntained or caased to be NaintaLnod
dequate.                                                               Frg±Liled
(b)   OM of mat  06o045 to be fjrnlanhd to ;ro Sank as soon as
ava1labU bot iA any case not :ator than sitx nontha after
the ed oat each fisea  y,ar.                                          Fjlrttl ed
(c)   Othr lmeis  eoneerUi   maLd records sad   eapLturoa
to be trnlished to the Bank 'e - meo to  ct.                            jllttAled
(d)   S_b r.Jord  to be kept at :east zne tear atter tho Clos.ng
ODte.                                                                  going tfAfiLle.
0.03 (a)   gdocation institAtions and  ectittties Inclided in tne Project
to be operated or cajsed to to aperated in accordance wtth
_swed _ad1utrti.e cod educatioal policies and prcticees
and with 4ds  reard to  co_m   and necessary fjnds for s ic?
operation to be provtded as nIeded.                                    Partially fIftil*d                    2.j P3  ..
(b)   GM1f±U4d adoitrator5 and tehoe   in adequate nr__ to I
start the edacatlenal tnst%t4t:nS inc;aded tn the Project
to be empoyed or cased tzo te  ep:oyed.                               Partially tAlfilled                  4        t
4.00 (a)   Buildings, firnitire and  ajipeent Dt the edjcattonal
tnatittions inalAded tn thee Dro,ct to fe adeq ateiy                   Fjlfilled for the LPs.
mlat4alae  or ceased to te wmitained. and all necessary                Upkeep not entirely satitfactory  Z. 4
repairs and renewas thereof to aD  udc or *aased to b0                 in the CAFOPI aitho         ti goset
sade.                                                                  sad. avatlable.
(b)    *ds, tfacUittles. servis and other res.iwee  r"Jtred 'or
the foregoLnSt   oe pr:tod   :A-esd to te provtded prveptly
as needed.                                                             'ilfJln1d as above.
4.05       ftmdep    d redoineation  :f  ta  -goq Ii sdy  n   e
costs or  dcttaatin    D  taken lit, AcCont lI 
preparation of thoe 6'.-' Is :*vq.;ont Plan.                           'a       sat:n
Source: Loan Agreement and Mission.



APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
(in US Dollars)
-__t        A           W -. 41141   t            _.   _ ^                    SW       3d _ -           OW.  _          *3         033w.     t_tA    6W.   _            _ thd       tw          tL  &.W           Mr.
*4W*1_uA             4730Ullt 6D*01036    6 -S 2   61A6bS   2 10416  66036*1 413    1   ,     31612  23 tt.10  I 66311-411  010360,00  014000  *JM   21410.006U    -.t                     0J0       GM0     1At2010 d          24.4-
t_m                 3223660*0E  7767111136 -V11    U t   30341  -M #J 4 ,1166          44603Mt -4          06tI 114131  411  27230_ t             0M                  2376tSA 010t0                          72 42 36.60  13    4  -mm
2137"*01   *247241 -W m  7-s        6  636000  -411  2        6       a0  4-A    *1 0ii*0l 36 * 4A -sm y          m0                                                 010       0m 1e,e36.60  33 *       1142*2
1.904       e *     snt 4u <n_F " t               a10440J   62S7    -IW   41646110   30I5MA 409   16466    2434310  X1 S1 0At 314171.2 -4   27201e   3811M01   W6                        0J0       Om        134076 .11 e0014 o30   -2
am"            "MOM6066    6 36412   4311  410416110   U060310 -46   321666       351401   311 U    U W 666 661     -64 10 4  272 361    SO31 OWN    1           24712*             610       G."046"00 133176,0      32743.17-~
_wodwhrw n                 S1@AO*)     010            410        6*A             OA1          0A1            to        Om1                7nMfIs                                        S06        0m         ?70.#0            6.
1          _ C4 eeO e 020000 1w23236  -41   6606610  3230              8    6306610 1A4Z01N MI 0J61M"-21M"  I33*4                       01         01" :          0.S0     0*             0.40     017A      , Os2 o  13 06o.00 1o0 SOS241430
eo_1                2100600I0  37227  -13   3561    7100.31.46    210                     213241   30   34010"      400.411            010       0a00            0.00      000    040         0.0    6        3 21 100600  2 eA o160 -233
_11o                smeoom   1711=12-0    451111JII    n?^tI  4              1131410     MO MA3111   t7O    0t7X4e4s                   OX         aml            §0.4      OA            00        kee        410"A   2240917An4 eZ
2,14660.06   1 "O 109.41 -341  3300010   7210031480    m666"         mm"0 4I   50661    6201117J1 -03              0AO        010           0.00     0a 0n6O                  0.06       10600001   2 1310110 -364
_ 12DDA0            3665660107s} 302I236*13   3401 0 t6263                    3664*   3O 0420261 -1    6662 0 10   13 12*m-SMA         01         0P2 .mOA O               060           0,20      *.         2a20006.0  13a3924 -4ts
C41091u                 9 0000?0        010        20006c         010         72G1         0472S -96   300              010        6n261010    15033*6 61  060.A00o         040       31106000  3074373 -i2   2474160.6     1392%2.4 4
0D~T   PwPArMS              0.60        0.60            010        010         3oAs46610  06   -313  40460.00    22.1  -6  am20000.0   42s40*0 -3111               0.60   1 zo20           0.00      0.00       301003 .00   4* 736.34 .03Is
0-42C1 3ta6                 0.0          0.60           000        610         3406010o     612315.1'          0,00     0GA       3I7 060000O  I4421.A0     I      ee-2  00o  oo       ?106S000 5520263.6  -    212700060  36042"60302-1
106*0              1316006000>  27613100   -271 132006.00n   31662141  -221 1406I0600  32F 7 6.1 304  -21 30060j3725620.1-41  443600.00 1738I 34210 -263-     06060.00 0692015 -M4  070000000  301073 -331  6400600 0     o643a30 3 -*3n
Source: Appraisal Report, SAPE and Mission.



APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
(in CFA Francs)
co4mu _                                                                                                                                                                                                     SO I I 414'fv
bs "u_ *" S_- ^-~~~m                                                wc  s                  last gas                     _                  AN 510M05r 4  wt
1r_ w.34s6ee       l007 S "l -  44051         06?.       50.   71        Ow         50.  ete35  40503    44eeeeet esew 440150150 ;t7CoIete m 104  W          0          0     we3ea4w"      e        16 ne
A-CAT3AL1OAW 3AO    04240000 051152003  05 43414   31N055M301 20  213240000   41SQ402 406   00400000  USISSI 1e  22140N000  329295650 325 t040000 2450 110 331                   0        0      3433142000003124)10002) 73
145112040=
r_s                200540000 21504035 1   48  11440000     O 4         :5 5340 0 301515M   OM51e4o 33  05  05400O0                         0               156224500           0         0      30"900000 453513143 20151
Gbp_              2400100 352203524  35  M06te04  260530 511  512  70500 13              4 US   543,42    31 405 51    0540e40             o                                   0         0      3731 200400    0020440  71
206%61        221000000 23014131514  4'  B0)0000  01?00  40  470000   004Z345030NU  350000   334241    to  05 40000  1311 M2~00221                                         0              2155335000  6043120024 2051
W01101             2=0444000 252 1350W?  35  03534000    30610 -15  713300005 13431551005  3          000 1260U 201450 321  90540000    M39730  2355       07312032      0               0      32005004   460423215  I32
qggmFdwolm0                        0              0S       0                                                                                  34 0                          0        0        6440od m000        0
S-7Uu vboaIJCMw  220150000*  242443902   35 32300QQ0 020 716-S405   113401000  432514M53In I      336I0ON0040  51 0 30 2-131       0                                  0                           23120N0000 253412132  10
05343               40000    021324613  318  20100000    165153-325    45304M   300404  321   Minu    201111 =-1140                        00                                            0       10950000   1713930n3 _06
OlkwA           7~10000  645530 -5  3m .11  2CNX0380)6-35    5310MON   3111014305 SW         040040  3174191 2041                                                                  a           91404100  00601500  Its
atom                   1010M  4005623206  0   2000404   235 10331 00   490040   "35403435   3404    220133416-                   0         0             0        00                     0       60"0000    100005   to
misoos0  2004=6"-to   20404   us==5  -011  054040                  . 51 140 03   20404    350= 33 0t0 0                                       0a                     0       122405    5m340332  -361
C40WWMUA32040000                   0       36410410        0       1058400110    440441       04040M           0      3*41640m  3425001415  3053040           0-.2200000  3340004    1344040    540320001 435
005CTw FOA11I                a           a             0         0         11004       33 11341 -4011    M 00400   24 40465  334004   3405403    Its          2 3312 ON                    0       2204040        IS 12130 -22
14AEsCrmor                   0           0             0         0       20404       24002330 -0          0         0       405340  WC13042  293           0        a     34150405013000434 200   6004VD40D24000322 244
01TffL1  339MD30040322401                 5640 3  71x630N  00100S  32 130404   4V*320416 15 164404   40004Mm3351    0234  3029030031  71320333940241196305 221 002000300134f4 33 6044  202024325
Source: Appraisal Report, SAPE and Mission.
brte   t7ge cetee wa"*lstat 4o ttZ4teeco tt1^n  ett  a7 aetett  ttZ4t4Dtttt  ttF otttce  z14SW   n   t4eocco  Isl7c7*con2N  e    *      atsaTeoteo  a"4 t4 ZeG~~~t
# _ #  atbo[tto  ZlatJ7 rvtt tta4t04to th7ttW77" -lO   nt cote  1a4717as7 t"  tsJ"te  uttX44e  In   5@410tC0  Xs7rNttoE re4 tetoo          > CooCo           X~~~~3



Country    COTE-d'IVOtRE          _ 27                STUDY
27 M   EI-  STDyISRO/IDA EOuga,ion Proj,c*s
Pays                                        ACHEVtMENt                               PPoaeIs EodUlon m SIRQOAD
pr,ijet  EDUCATION tCtOMPWAttISON OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATEO ANDA CTUAL
Projet:                 UNIT AREAS AND UNIT COSTS FOR NEW INSTITUTIONS
COMPARA;SON ENTRE LES SURfACES ET COUTS
Wwgl   No. 1777 IVC            UNITAIRES PRE' A ET REELS POUR LES
Pvit:                               ETABLISSEMENTS NOUVEAUX
GROSS AREAS .itt         COSTS *EP STUOENT *LAC* ot LIVINrG uI.JNi?
1TUot%4r ILACIE 00       COUTS PAPI PLACI OCtLE VI OU OAR LOGEVINTI/
?YP1/LIVIL OF INSTITUTION         LIVING uNIt                  i.. USS ea-.0e.-  te- coils's IJ.,
SURnFACE SGuTE                                                          _
PAPI 'LACE ODE LIVE v wIdem  eno Sa.   IGC.o'ent and
Ou PAR LOCEMI14't     OO^t @ment tW^,tWt r                      TOTAL
of! LITASLISSI MINT         O"g'.   llct
t.*wj   _   tt**4z&/ 1^",$1/ Pr.tZua    Pe§ 3    p.I*, ^'@u        t,
A ACAOIWC AND COMMAUNAL
li'ClLfTIES                                                                        .
tINSEIGNEMENT ET SEPVICES
COMMuNS
CAFOP   KATIOLA                 7I
CAFOP   OOIENNE                  T 58_9_31____
CAFOP   A2?lSSO                 75F          8    ---                                   -
L. P.    ODiENNE               1348 _1_712
L.P    t4ON                    1238    14.63
L.P     SAN PEDRO              15,6'    1/ 18
L.P     GAGNOA                                                          -  _
.    STUOENTS' OAPOING
_ FACILITIES 
i OINTEPNAT                           i
CAFOP   KATIOLA 
CAFOP ODIENNE                           110
CAFOP   ABOISSO                1160    IZ S3      -_---_- 
L.P.    ODtENllE               113      3.0-8                     __                 _
L.P.    MAN                    11 20    12_                                                              _
L.P    SAN  PEDRO              21,0      12       35                   6---
L.P.    GAGNOA112,134=___
C STAFF UIOUSING
LOGEMEtNTS OE ICONCT10N
CAFOP   I T                  _12        131;_; 
CAFOP_-0  131,                                                                                 _
CAFOP  AriOSS- I R                       12                  .               .        _          .
L.P.    OOIENE         _       131.30  Y   S       
L.P     MAN_                   131.3      2,            
Lt.P    SAN  PEDRO 113  2   -1- 
L.P     GAGNCA___          _ 113          2                                   _       ^_
O. TOTAL ENSEIGNEM4ENT
INTERIAT  ET  LOGEttENTi                   
CFOP   KATIOLA                 23,0   -  6        r1.=IBT IlYJ 1.X    -Z5+-l.9                        1
CAFOP- ODIENNE.                 23.0  _26         1909   --F2.3i   1  944  ,  2.578-  I104T-   -T9I`
CAfOP   ABOtSSO  __     23,0      27.5   3T42 11  64zi 5i   1.632  -2.467   15.T7T-  74- T2f
hP:   ODIiNNE           Z1,~~279   ;      2318       2.3    7.611   1.0-3.9   
L-P     zz_2.                             28.2   1.0   I4.93   7.-8r921:2.-0124.19c4-
G. AGNOA                    24.3      25.9   156311.79   410                 .091.73            1t-.Se
L.P      A        PEDRO         26 S      |        ab . 172-  6.07   2~1. 67t539
Information of no importance as the buildings were already in existence.
irt        Artrai-  I  Ror -rt Anti CAPI;



- 28 -                                            Annex 5
Countrv: C8te d'Ivoire                  COPLIETION STUDY                          ISRDiIDA Education Projects
Pays:                                     ACHIVEMENT                              Projets Education BIROD/AI
Po0ject: Education III
COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED AND ACTUALLY
Projet;                      PROVIDED GROSS CONSTRUCTION AREAS
COMPARAISON INTRE LES SURFACtS
Loan.       1777  IVC                                               *
URUTES PREVUES ET CONSTRUITES
ESTIMATEO CONSTRUCTED AREAS FOR
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REQUIREO                    Actu.: G'aa,
SURFACES A CONSTRUIRE POUR LES
INSTITUT10N                      LOCAUX PREVUS                 olF   ContCi.ctson Aloe to,     DIP
AOO.Nl4,1 AfCt etultl   Aii Age=  1o1. i.o.u   Comto,etea F&ciT"
Wark Sf001
Iogtin - e *rch        Mod,f,COI.o.uI   211 Surfcsi  .te  car'str-.ts  3,1  ,2
WeW^ton          ~          ~~~2            3                _"
CAFOP KORHONO                     _                                               3
"C. 4anino9ts.                 -2 204                                     2____201 ___
yc. rEaadnagts.                 2.84_                                          _2.201
ye ict._Z.4__  _ _ _ _ ___       2   _4            _                 -    3.1  0t   _    _ .
CAFOP KATtOLA                   3. 317                                       3&RU,c          _    .
CAFOP ODIENNE              _   3317                                              RU,c        _
CAFOP ABOISSO         __ _                         32 5 .  F
-L P                      __- LL&s- - -_____.14.559.
L.P SAN PEkO     _             11.443         _                           1245Io
L.P GAGNOA                     11 . 487-  1_0 _     _                                5
________ *.P                               --fJ"  __   -0.  -__         _       J
Los Wolrdas flu trItrs lids Aux bitima ts sont comotds 4    its.i  fri buO-     tru1 est
The areas of coveired   IkwazjLQrLitde-eJ  A.tt.ched to tist.  ilIdi.9  ar   oinn tr
gross buliIg            _           ._                           __                        __    _
oat.   12/1966           'As aedw bOlwsisift f Ggiaserienmt ala IIROIIOA           Sheet     o
TVl QUO COifielU tIfitr 10 00GIfouMn.mm  at 1 SIROIAIO)  pow        j
Source: Appraisal Report and SAPE.



FINANCING  PLAN
(in 000 of US$)
Components                                         IB                   AtDB            Governient            Totcl  Cost  |
Phase 1      Phase 2  C6te dllvoire         (Including taxes
Lyc6es Professionnels (4)                           10.570        7,290         6.765          23,400                  48.025
CAFOP (4)                                            4,630                                      5.105                   9,785
Promovillage                                         1,170                                        745                   1,915
Educational planning and
Project preparation                                    640                                        270                     910
Project Unit                                         k.170                                      1,055                   2,225
lotal  bass  cost                                   18,230         7,290        6,765          30.S57                   62.060
total contingencies                                  5,770         2,610        2,835          10,865                  22,080
Aprisal Esttmte of cost Ja US$=00                   24____        gs,go         I'mq. 
Actual cost in  US$ m   I/                           14.961        7.291        S.42             A.7O                   Y.4S35
Difference in %                                     -37,66  _   -26,35%        -11,65%        -33,15%                 -31,20%
Appraisal cost  in  000  of CIA  r  2/          5 280  000 2  178  000  2  112  000    9  116  g00               10  Gs  g001
acual  cost in  000 of CrA  F                   5 385  960 2  639 395  3 070  568    9 936  140                  21  032  063
Difference in t                                       2,01%       21,18%        45,39%           8,99%                  12.551
1/ at average rate during implementation US$ I   CFA F 360
21 at rate prevailing at Appraisal USS I = CFA F 220
Source: SAPE.                                                                                                                       K



CWIPARI8O  WrdMK  IfTNAYKD AND) ACIIIA  fl U~TO3 acVxWi
us~~ Million               I .  ~~Appraisal  4- Actual
I     h0              ~                        _     _    _    _
US$ million
25                 .                         -                          -        - .iI. -__ -_
20                                             _l  |  . _                                                               -
Ualendar Year   60    2/80  6)}t}  l2rSl  6182  12182  6183  12/ffi3  6/8     IW8   6M65   12X5   W16   ZU8
Source: Appraisal Report and Mission.
x
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 31 -                                       Aunex 3
Countty:   C8te d'Ivoire             COMPLETION STUDY                        SRO/iDA Education Projects
Pays:                                  ACHEVEMENT                            Proj,ts Education SIRO/AIO
COMPARISON Of STUDENT PLACES ORIGINALLY
PLANNED FOR, STUDENT PLACES ACTUALLY
tMADE AVAILABLE AND ACTUAL ENROLLMENTS
Loan; No. 1777 IVC  COMPARAISON ENTRI LES PLACES D'ELEVE PREVUES,
Prit;                    CELLES FOURNIES ET LES EFFECTIFS REELS
PROJECT TEM         STUOENT PLACES      STUOENT PLACES     %    ACTUAL CUNIfENT    r    %
PLANNEO PON      MAOE AVAILAGLI
ELEMENT DU PROJET       PLACES OELEVE      PLACES O'ELEVE    OIP.    ENROLLMENT      OIP  ODF
PREVUES           FOURNICS
Inrl"Tution      'AocPeF,i waritcnaI  (Complete Contructioni 2V1    EPPICTIPS REELS   3/1  3/2
2 tibhumemnt      (P,og,ea,inje aimm   tacn ural)  (Construct.*o ecnee3)
___________ I        1                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2           3
LYCEES PROFSSIO   :IS          _.__                         _
GAGNOA                    t1w  '+ !u                          100         251         *       3
516 (+ 40)             16           100         251              . 2.
OnTFENrF                  360 '  40)             360                      14S           41  41
_q41Y PFDRn       -       -        l o'                                   0) 42152  f
TC`'TAL L.P.            1. 90                  1.908          100         799
CAFOP           ,,,_._..__ _
ABOTSSO                    A              __4_'_____ 100                   81          6. L3
KAr__T_ _T _              144L                     4 _ _ _ _ _ 
I   L                                   I nr  __
nDITrNEr                  i                       L  L  j           _     _ _
.TTAL CAFOP               5 c -                                           333
PRQOIVILLAGF              6b                non r a1isa         _ L. -=
*entre narenth6se A ...  2."eff'ect if de staixiaire,  fo(. mation Drof'essi )nnell.
contitnui pr4ru.                                                                        I
* in parenthesis ( ..). intended enr lment of perso in practical vocatsio nl
upgrading traini. _-__
2/1986          '~~~AS agreed batwon the Governnuh,t ad SBAOIIOA  Shaut    of      04ect"
0*t   2/1986                    orn o rnnllO                                  e|       o       sn
Tel que convenu intro O Goaunant et to BIRNOI   PP       d        oe
Source: SAPE.



urn- (we)
Enrolents
Capacity                           ActUU1                                     Projected           1989
1984       1985       1986      1987      Capacty    1988           1989     Capacity
San Pedro            432 (+ 30*)         36         91        152       185          40         212         264          57      1
Odienne              360 (+ 40*)          -         69        145       218          55         246          264         66
GagOa                600 (+ 40*)        ISO        158        251       300          47         380          440         69
MBn                  516 (* 400)         60        149        251       286          51         288          288          52
Total             1.908 (+ 150*)       1ry         467        799       989          48       1.126        1.256         61
* 0riginal y intended enrolment of employed persons in upgrading programe of vocational training.
Source: Mission.
x
'0



LPs TACHING AND AJNIVISTRATIVE STAFF - 1986-1989
San Pedro              OdIenn6               Gagnoa                  Man
1t986/87:
Teaching staff
- national                                  16                     17                   20                     34
- technical assistance                      10                    12                     7                     10
OTAIL                                     26                    29                    2r                      1 w
Administrative/maintenance personnel           38                     40                    48                    42
Student/teacher ratio                         7.1                   7.5                   11.1                   6.5
Teaching staff
- national                                  68                    63                     55                    40
- technical assistance                       16                       6                     5                    12
2aL                                       84                      69                    60                    52
Adfinistrative/maintenance persoanel           73                      67                    65                    68
Source: Mission.
I.



LYCEES PROFESSIOW(LS              - 34 -                             Annex 11
REDCRrM T COST PER INSTITUION AND PER STEINT (LP)/
-  COT  R=9CMURENT5 PAR ETABLISSEMET ET PAR  LEVE (1P)
000 F.CrA
LIBELLE              L.P.        iCAGUIOA     MAI.    ODIED41'   SAN PEDRO   03S
A. 3OUR4ALIERS                       15 795    17 403   16 959        18 897
B. FONCTIONEI ENJ                    82 943   108 801   35 640        90 008
Achat mob et mat bureau             _        4 000      _
Achat vehicule                       279       279                   _
Achat mob et mat technique          _        6 600    2 500         4 057
Cros entretien
Abonnements eau, ilect,tiliph        150       150       200          ISO
Alimentatlon                      53 550    55 125   29 025        34 200
Fournitures de bureau                800     2 000    2 509         1 600
Fournitures techniques             6 845    16 786    7 090        27 919
Habillement                          244       244       244          244
Entretien locaux                   2 800     4 029    2 000         3 000
Entretien mat et mob               1 000     1 700    1 700         1 000         f
Entretlen vehicules                2 225     2 096    2 150         2 300
Carburant                          4 030     4 800    5 297         5 500
Depenses diverses                 11 020    10 991    2 925        10 038
C. BUDGET DE L'ETABLISS.: A * B      98 738   126 204   72 599       108 905
0. AUTTRES COUTS HORS BUDG. ETB     275 000   417 000  302 000       346 000
Eff.nation.:enseig + adminis.   21 + 15   32 + 15  17 + 12        28 + 12    1)
Eff.enseignants expatries         8        15.       12           12
Estim. salaires nationaux        114 000   158 000   92 000       136 000    2)
Estim. salaires expatries        112 000   210 COO  168 003       168 000    2)
Estim. consom. eau                 5 000     5 000    4 000         4 000
Estin.. consom. electricit6       18 000    18 000   12 000        12 000
Estim. conson. telephone           1 000     1 000    1 000         1 000
Maintenance / Fonds 011FP         25 000    25 000   25 000        25 000
E. COUT TOTAL FONCTIOt4N. C + D     373 738   543 204  374 599       454 905
F. EFFECTIF STAGIAIRES 1986             251        251      145          152
C. COUT ANN. NC.AMT/STACIAIRE         1 489      2 i64    2 583        2 992    3)
H. AMDRT.INVEST/STAGIAIRE 1986          513        622    1 026          736    4)
I. COUT AP84./STAGIAIRE EN 1986       2 002     2 786    3 609         3 726
1) Non comr.pris les personnels nationaux journaliers dont le salaire est pris en
compte a la rubrique : A. JOUNALIERS.
2) Les moyennes suivantes ont ete retenues pour les calculs des couts salariaux
administratifs : 2 000 000/an, enseignants nationaux : 4 000 000/an, expatries
14 000 000/an.
3) CoGt annuel par stagiaire non compris amortissement.
4) Aaortissement des investissements calculi sur 30 ans et rapporte a l'effectif
de I'annee 1986.
Source: SAPE.



KNRUMOIWIS (CAFhPEs)
Gogrs   19R2/R3       P983/8'                19R4/HS                 1985/86               1986/87
1,t year   2ndi year  1t year   2nd year   Ist year   2nd year   Ist year   2nd year   lst year   2nd year
CAFOP     CajacIt_
ABOISSO    144          80          00         66          75          89          65        36          89          45        36
KATIOLA    144          73          00         69          73          89          89        49          89          44        49
KORHOGOO 288 (144)  145 (72)        00      135 ( 67)  126 ( 63)  120 ( 60)  120 ( 60)    70 1 35  120 ( 60)         -       68 ( 34)
ODIENNE    1i44         84          00         70          74          69          65        40          69          43        38
Sub-total   720 (576)  382 (309)       00      340 (272)  340 (285)  367 (307)  J39 (279)   ..5 (160)  367 (307)    132        191 (157)
TOTAL                  382  (309)              6P8   (557)           706   (586)            562   (467)            328  (289)
* Korhogo: Total capacity ot' 28 I student pl;ttx *eb o  whi'h 144 were rinanced by the Third Project.  It can be considered that
50 per cent. it' tht enroLment * rrte'..1.t-n  1k. the Implemented extension; therefore, the figures in parenthesii  zhovw
the t-i1 ia tu lm.1net c.vei-d toy lln Ih'lii I1roJet.
Source: SAPE un Mission.



CAMYPs TUACHING AND AKIUNWIATJVK STAFF - 1986/196T
Aboisso          Katiola          Korhogo           Odienn6
Teaching stat'f
- natlonal                                       23                21               32                19
- technical assistance                            5                 -                -                 1
- TOTAL                                          28                21               32                21
Administrative/maintenance personnel                33                40               31                21
Total staff                                         61                61               63                41
Actual enrolments                                   81                93               68                81
Student/teacher ratlo                            2.9/1             4.4/1            2.1/1             3.5/1
Source: 5APE and Mission.
x
I-.
wA



C A    O P                       -37-                             Annex 14
R-CURdIXT COST PER IISTrITIO AND PER STUDWT (CAPOP)/
CW-S FESUBUT  PAR         EL IT PAR EIZVY  (CAPOP)
W00 F.CFA
LIBELLE                           KATIOLA  KORHOGO   ODIENE   ABOISSO  OBS
A. JOURtALIERS                                     4 933    12 547
B. FONCTIOtINEtENT                                49 197   27 622
Equipement de bureau                              50       -
Materiel d'enseignenent                          348    2 330
Alimentation lnternat                         24 182   14 718
Fournitures de bureau                          1 600       437
'ournit.internat & habillem.                   9 315     5 780
Entretien mob. et locaux                       8 639       854
Entretien vehicules                            2 519     1074
Carburant et lubrifiant                        2 544    2 429
C. BUDGET DE L'ETAELISS. A + B           36 638   54 130   40 169    39 405    1
D. AUTRES COUTS DE FONCTIONNHNT         102 500  158 400    94 100  119 300
Effectif enseignants                21        33        20        28
Effectif administratifs             (25)+ 8  (10)+21   (22)+11   (25)+8     2
Estimation salaires enseignants     75 600  118 800   72 000   100 800    3
Estimation salaires administrat.    18 000   25 200    13 200      9 600    4
Estimation consomm. eau               3 000    4 500     3 000     3 000
Estimation consomm.ilectriciti        5 000    9 000     5 000     5 000
Estimation consomm. tlelphone           900      900       900       900
E. COUTS DE F')NCTIOt4N. C + 0          139 138  212 530   134 269   158 705
a. Effectif eleve du 01.01 au 30.09.86      138      190       109        125
b. Effectif eleve du 01.10 au 31.12.86       93       68        81         81
c. Effect.mnoyen 1986:(6.5a + 3b):9.5       124      151       100        115
F. COUT UNIT./ELEVE N.C. AMT              1 122    1 407     1 343      1 430   5
C. AMORTISS.INVESTISS/ELEVE                 208      226       269        228   6
H. COUT TOTAL Y C AJIT/ELEVE en 86        1 330    1 633     1 612      1 653
1. Les budgets des CAFOP de Katiola et d'Aboisso ont eti estims sur la base des
dotations des premiers mois de 1986.
2. Les effeactifs entre parentheses sont ceux des Journallers mentionnes en 4.
3. 3,6 mi'lions/anlenseignant
4. 1,2 miLlions/an/agent d'adninistration
5. Cout unitaire hors amortissement des investissements.
6. Amortissement des investisse.ments calculi sur 30 ans et rapporte au nombre
d'eleves en 1966.
Source: SAPE.



- 39 -
88E0661    May 18, 1988
French   (C8te d'lvoire)
OED      JRT:jb
Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Ministry of Primary Education
P.O. V 44
Abidjan
Ref. No. 0344/MEP/CAB                              Abidjan, April 28. 1988
To:       Director
World Bank Regional Mission in C6te d'Ivoire,
ABIDJAN
Subject:  Comments on the draft Completion Report for the Third Education
Prolect (1777-IVC)
For transmittal to the Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human
Resources Division, Operations Evaluation Department
WASHINGTON, D.C.
For the Minister of Primary
Education,
/6i Seraphin KOFFI
Technical Advisor



- 40 -
Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Ministry of Primary Education
P.O. V 44
Abidjan
Office of the Minister
Ref. No. O344/MEP/CAB                              Abidjan, April 28, 1988
Subject:  Conmnents on the draft Completion iLeport for the Third Education
Project (1777-IVC)
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
I concur fully with the observations and conclusions in the draft
completion report for the Third Education Project and have the honor to send
you these brief comments, which I hope will be taken into consideration for
the final version of the report.
Please accept, etc., and kindly transmit my congratulations to the
members of the mission.
/s/ Mrs. 0. KOUAME N'GUESSAN
Minister
Encl:     Comments on the completion report for the Third Education Project
(1777-IVC)



- 41 -
Comments on the Draft Project Completion Report
(Third Education Prolect-1777-IVC)
p.1* Para. 2--PCR: "This report was prepared...from the government."
Coment:  When the report was being written, Mr. Siefer, SAPE
Director, asked us to draft pp. 13 and 14. As for the other sections, he had
them himself and the "final" report never reached us. It was therefore
difficult to comment on a document that we did not have.
Change made.          Proposed rewording:  Eliminate the sentence "No comment was received
from the Government." from the paragraph.
p.vii, para. vii--PCR: "The current priority is to...decreasing the rate of
internal promotion..."
Comment: With a view to raising the recruitment level in order to
improve the quality and yield of primary education, the teacher training
policy was changed in 1981 as follows:
-    Training to last two years (instead of one year), with the following
consequences:
-    splitting of total enrollment into two classes of 72 trainees
in each of the two years;
-    reduction in the number of trainees leaving per year (288
instead of 576);
-    Standardization of trainee entrance profiles (recruitment of only
"bacheliers" identified by the Commission Nationale d'Orientation
Scolaire et Universitaire for the 13 basic teacher training centers
as a whole).
As a result, the CAFOPs now stress practical training over the3ry.
The ideal would therefore be to maintain the current teacher/trainee ratio
based on a full-capacity situation.
As regards "the training of teachers for trivate schools," this was
a mere possibility mentioned during informal meetings with my colleagues and
not a decision. However, in view of the State subsidies to private education
as part of the Government's education policy, over the medium or long term
that financial aid could be converted into services in kind (assistance in the
continuous training of private school personnel by making CAFOP teachers and
premises available, etc.).
As for "decreasing the rate of internal promotion," this goes
against our continuous education and internal promotion policy, which enables
a lower-level teacher become a primary school inspector by taking competitive
examinations and rising successively from the EN I level (teacher) to ENS IV
(CAFOP teacher) and finally ENS III (inspector).
T.N.:     The page numbers evidently refer to the French version.



- 42 -
Change made.          _roposed rewordinL.  The paragraph should read as follows:
vii. "The current priority is to reduce unit costs by: (a) reducing
the number of expatriate teachers; (b) increasing enrollments so that the
CAFOPs operate at full capacity; (c) maintaining the present level of internal
promotion for lower-level teachers in order to standardize the primary-teacher
profile over the medium run."
p.3: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CHAPTER II)
PCR:
Overview:  Next to last para.:..."inadequate operating costs (LPs)
and lack of qualified video maintenance staff (CAFOP)..."
Comment:  CAFOP personnel assigned to its closed circuit television
equipment are responsible only for the operation and preventive upkeep of the
equipment. Heavy maintenance is the responsibility of the technicians from
the Video Maintenance Central Unit of the "T616 Pour Tous" Service.
Change made.          Proposed rewording:  "excessive operating costs for the LPs"
pp. 16 and 17: PROJECT OUTCOMES (CHAPTER IV)
Primary Teacher Training Colleges (CAFOPs)
(a) PCR:
EaLk. 4.17..."If it is assumed that the number of teaching posts...
to other purpoLes."
Comment: Given such an assumption minimizing the "basic training"
function, the CAFOPs could maximize their "outreach" ("animation") function
and carry out fully their mission as teaching outreach and resource centers in
the sector where they are located.
Footnote,             Proposed rewording:  "4.17.  This decision is explained by the
economic situation...investments made. If it is assumed that the number of
teaching posts will remain frozen at a fairly low levei, four CAFOPs with a
capacity of 144 trainees each or two with a capacity of 288 trainees each of
the 13 existing CAFOPs will suffice to train the primary school teachers given
the budgetary constraints and planned numbers of government workers in
accordance with the economic recovery measures recommended by the IMF and
World Bank." The other CAFOPs could thus fully carry out their function as
teaching outreach centers.
(b) PCR:
para. 4.19: "The regional vocation of the CAFOPs and their
impact... upgrading Grade I teachers to Grade II."
Comment:  This paragraph should be stricken from the report and
replaced by the following:



- 43 -
Reference mad         Proposed rewording:  "The regional vocation of the CAFOPs and their
impact on education in the regions where they are located have been
strengthened by the regional outreach efforts promoted and overseen by the
recently established Primary Education Regional Districts (DREPs), which have
been operating since the start of the 1987-88 school year within the CAFOPs
themselves.
Moreover, the new training strategy introduced in October 1986 to
the CAFOPs promotes the organization of internships in village schools where
the trainees live throughout the duration of the internship. This pract'ce
teaching helps prepare them better for the real environment in which they will
carry out their careers as teachers.
In addition, the frequent exchanges between CAFOP teachers and the
teachers of urban and rural schools as part of the preparation of the latter
for the various competitive and other teaching examinations (CEAP, CAP,
entrance examination for EN I, etc.) provide considerable support to the
primary schools. In addition, the CAFOP are used as sites where the
examinations are given and corrected.
Lastly, the decentralization through the DREPs responsible for
supervising the teachers in their area of jurisdiction strengthens the
monitoring and evaluation of reassignments of such personnel with a view to
the optimal and rational allocation of human resources. This means more
rigorous implementation of legislation in force and that all trainee teachers
leaving the CAFOPs are subject to the following conditions:
-    Priority in first assignment to a village in their DREP of origin
based on the projections shown on the school map;
-    Obligation for all graduates in a subordinate position (assistant
level) to serve at least two years in the school of the village of
first assignment or at least three years if carrying out the duties
of a school director before any internal change within the
territorial limits of the DREP where he is working can be made;
-    Possibility for all teachers with five years experience in a given
DREP to request a change out of that district (permission to
transfer).
(c) PCR:
para. 4.20..."costs at a reasonable level...the decline in the
enrollment ratio in the rural areas."
Comment: As discussed earlier, the Government's decision to raise
the recruitment level makes this a moot point and the paragraph should
therefore be rewritten as follows:
Footnote added.       Proposed rewording:  "Despite the financial constraints imposed by
the economic crisis, the CAFOPs should operate at full capacity, as decided at
the outset, in order to reduce unit costs and maintain the current level of
the enrollment ratio."



- 44 -
(d) PCR:
para. 4.21:  "The Iinistry of Primary Education is at present
envisaging.. .and the quality of teachers."
Comment:  In the light of the comments regarding para. vii on
p. vii, para. 4.21 could be reworked as follows:
Footnote added.       Proposed rewording:  "The Ministry of Primary Education is at
present studying the possibility of increasing the enrollment of the CAFOPs in
line with budgetary constraints and public resources. The recent measures
taken by the Head of State at the beginning of the 1987-88 school year to
prepare 2,001 "bacheliers" (instead of the 300 originally envisaged) suggests
that this effort will be continued and eventually have an impact on unit costs
while safeguarding the quality of the teachers."
p. 21     PCR:
para. 6.01:
"The problem of inefficiency...managerial staff in these areas."
Comment:  It is unlikely that the inefficiency in the use of CAFOP
facilities is directly associated with a lack of training on the part of
managerial staff. However, inadequate maintenance may be due in part to a
lack of training of maintenance workers but also and especially to budgetary
constraints. Hence:
Footnote added.       Proposed rewording:  "The problem of CAFOP under-utilization
associated with a reduction in the enrollment of trainees assigned there could
eventually have an adverse effect on their maintenance through a constant
decline in appropriations for that purpose."
Para. 6.02:
PCR:  "While it is commendable...eligible for the posting to the
towns."
Comment:  This paragraph needs to be reworked in view of the fact
that such arrangements were provided for even before the Third Project.
Footnote added.        Proposed rewording:  "It is recommended that measures existing even
before the Third Project be strengthened, particularly the granting of a
hardship allowance for teachers working in disadvantaged rural areas in order
to achieve equity between rural and urban areas."



-45-
Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Ministry of Technical Education
and Vocational Training
Office of the Minister                            CONFIDENTIAL
Our ref:  88l24/MET/FP/CAB/Ci/CD
Abidjan, April 25, 1988
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture,
Infrastructure and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Donaldson:
I have received the draft completion report you sent me for the
Third Education Project (Loan 1777-IVC).
I am pleased to attach the -omments prepared by my staff on the
report.
There does not appear to be any fundamental contradiction between
the two.
Please accept, etc.,
isl A. BARRY-BATTESTI
Minister



-46 -
COMMENTS ON THE VOCATIONAL SECONDARY SCHOOL COMPONENT
OF THE COMPLETION REPORT FOR THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1777-IVC)
List of abbreviations
Change made.         INFP:  To be replaced by INFTP:  Institut National de Fornation
Technique et Professionnelle (National Technical and Vocational Training
Institute)
P. 5. para. 2.11
Footnote added.      It is important to stress that the ONFP has assigned a maintenance
team to each LP and exact maintenance procedures have been formulated for each
school. Therefore, to say that "maintenance varies according to the users'
interest" gives a very incomplete picture of the real situation.
p. 5, para 2.12
Change made.         The annual cost of roofing maintenance is CFAF 28.7 million, i.e.
7.2 million per LP aud not 16 million.
The error comes from the fact that for the 18-month period from
July 1, 1984 to December 31, 1985 the SAPE had prepared roof maintenance
contracts for some CFAF 16 million per school. Over a 12-month period, that
would be about CFAF 11 million. Since January 1, 1986, the ONFP has
renegotiated all maintenance contracts and the LP roofing component was
reduced to CFAF 7.2 million/school.
p. 5, para. 2.13
Footnote.            The complementary works that could not be done involve the San Pedro
LP as well as those in Gagnoa and Man.
The delays in preparing the contracts were not attributable to the
firms selected (their estimates are dated March 1986 and approval by DCGTX was
in June 1986). Thus, "the reluctance of the contractor to undertake minor
supplementary work" is erroneous.
p. 5, para. 2.14
'ootnote.             It might be interesting to note that at the request of the
Government the numerical command milling machine for the Man LP was removed
from the school. As a replacement, the supplier agreed to deliver four
complete sets for introduction to numerical command (two lathes and two
milling machines), which were better suited to the conditions of use at the
school.
This equipment represents more than 80% of the initial value of the
milling machine and accessories.



- 47 -
p. 7, para. 2.24(b)
Footnote.             The identification and monitoring of the practical work assignments
for the students were handled by the SERFEs of the LPs. The role of the ONFP
was limited to arranging accommodations for the SERFEs on mission in Abidjan.
The OMOCI was not responsible for any of these tasks.
P. 7. para. 2.24(d)
Footnote.             The borrower operated the schools with due regard for economy,
taking into account the absorption capacity of the labor force. As a result,
the increase in student enrollment was intentionally slowed down and the
facilities were consequently operated at less than full capacity.
p. 13, para. 4.02
Reference made.       The proportion of French technical assistants was only 31% in
relation to the entire teaching staff (see Annex 10).
The faculty thus consists mainly of local teachers and not technical
assistants. Moreover, the completion report makes no mentiln of the plans for
training local teachers or on their in-service activities, ihich should have
been analyzed by the mission in conjunction with the IPNETP.
P. 13, para. 4.05 [sic: ?4.031
The last sentence in this paragraph was shortened in relation to the
English version.  It should read, "there have been delays....contacts with
industry.  But the interest shown by employers during the forum....may soon be
improved."
p. 13, para. 4.04
Footnote.             The training in office technology at the Gagnoa LP as part of its
administrative techniques stream since its opening (word processing, data
entry, electronic keyboard) has not been provided either by the schools giving
courses leading to the CAP and BEP or by the Yopougon LP.
p. 14, para. 4.05
Reference made.       The study on establishing target profiles and training programs in
the commerce stream at Gagnoa took four months.
The study on the public works stream at the San Pedro LP took five
months.
The teachers at the schools were largely involved in the studies,
particularly at San Pedro, which seconded two teachers full-time throughout
the duration of the study and two teachers on a part-time basis.
Lastly, the IPNETP does not have sufficient personnel to provide
such services. It can provide only methodological support, as was the case at



- 48 -
San Pedro. Moreover, to say that the approach did not improve the quality of
programs means that only a cursory analysis of the situation in the field was
made.
In point of fact, the companies concerned by our training were
involved in the formulation of the exit profiles and approve of our training
framework (referentiels). The major topics in the third module are based on
actual work situations taken from Ivorian companies.
The use of training programs tailored to other environments would
not have resulted in a good fit between training and employment.
p. 14, para. 4.08
Reference made.      Same comment as for para. 2.24(d)
* * *
In conclusion, the evaluation of the vocational secondary schools
component under the Third Education Project appears to be the result of a
cursory analysis of the situation and problems during the implementation and
later startup of this new generation of vocational training structures.



