Document of                         FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2617-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
November 19, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their of1icil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         -   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1                  -   CFAF 220
CFAF 1,000           5   US$4.545
CFAF 50              -   FF 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)          -   0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)            =   2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)          -   2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)         =   0.984 long ton
1 cubic meter (m3)       =   35.314 cubic feet (ft3)
1 m3 (round)             =   27.74 Hoppus ft
1 m3 (round) per ha       -   11.23 Hoppus ft per acre
1 kilowatt (kW)           =   1.360 cheval-vapeur (cv)
1 kilowatt (kW)           =   1.341 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
IPNET     -    Institut Pedagogique National d'Enseignement Technique
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Amount:              US$24.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace at an interest
rate of 7.95 percent per annum.
Project              The project is designed to achieve the following objec-
Description:       tives:  (i) to relieve the shortage of skilled
middle-level manpower by establishing four vocational
training institutes, (ii) to improve the quality of
and increase the access to primary education by
establishing four primary teacher training centers,
(iii) to implement a pilot community development
project, and (iv) to prepare a follow-up project and
to strengthen the Government education planning capacity.
The community development project being experimental is
probably the most risky component; the project is, how-
ever, limited to two townships in this phase and would
be closely monitored.
Estimated Costs:                                           Local  Foreign   Total
---(US$ million)----
Vocational Training                    23.5    24.5      48.0
Primary Teacher Training                5.2      4.6      9.8
Community Development                   0.7      1.,2     1.9
Education Planning/Project              0.3      0.6      0.9
Preparation
Project Management                      0.8      1.4      2.2
TOTAL BASE COST                      30.5    32.3      62.8
Physical Contingencies                  2.9      2.9      5.8
Price Contingencies                     8.0      8.3     16.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(including taxes)                    41.4    43.5      84.9
Taxes                                  21.9     --       21.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(net of taxes)                       19.5    43.5      63.0
This document ha a tesicted distribution and may be ued by recipionts only in the performance
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Dank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                              US$ million
IBRD                      24.0
AfDB                      19.5
Government                19.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST        63.0
(net of taxes)
Estimated
Disbursements:                     FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
(US$ million)
Annual          0.3      1.7    11.3       9.1      1.1     0.5
Cumulative      0.3      2.0    13.3    22.4    23.5    24.0
Project
Completion
Date:              June 30, 1984
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2460a-IVC of November 16, 1979.
Map:                  IBRD 14171R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$24.0 million to
help finance a Third Education Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum. The
project would be co-financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB). The AfDB
loan amounting to US$19.5 million equivalent, would be at 7 percent per annum
over 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal find-
ings and conclusions, updated by Bank missions which visited the Ivory Coast
in October 1978 and February 1979 are incorporated in the following para-
graphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew al: a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1977,
per capita GNP reached US$710, one of the highest in Africa. The good over-
all performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years has riesulted
from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; liberal government policies vis-a-vis foreign
private investment as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and availability
of external aid.
4.         Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast a comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (par-
ticularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were
concentrated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments
1/   Substantially identical with Part I of the President's Report No.
P-2522-IVC for a Forestry Project.



were made in Lransport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricul-
tural areas, and in agricultural research programs. Adequate guaranteed
producer prices and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic
smallholder subsector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale
plantations with outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut
palm. Rapid growth has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple,
palm and coconut oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which the Ivory
Coast is now the third largest producer in the world.
5.        A long period of political stability, combined with the free trans-
ferability of profits and capital, has created an aura of confidence abroad
which assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary technical
skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the country, and
the Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc
area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory
Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it joined
the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has helped promote
the CIMAO project, which is the first regional industrial undertaking involv-
ing both French and English-speaking countries in West Africa. An important
feature of this cooperation with neighboring countries, which has been bene-
ficial to all parties concerned, is the large influx of unskilled labor from
less well endowed Sahelian countries, particularly Upper Volta and Mali. In
1976, the foreign population of the Ivory Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans)
was 1.5 million, i.e. about 25 percent of the country's total population.
6.        The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector to
grow rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than six
times from 1960 to 1975. The trade balance during this period was positive
and amounted to 14 percent of export earnings. However, the deficit on
non-factor services, workers' remittances and direct investment income
has never allowed a surplus on the current account. The most noticeable
aspect of export earnings in recent years has been the high prices received
for coffee which increased by 60 percent in 1976 and a further 120 percent in
1977, and those for cocoa which increased by 20 percent in 1976 and a further
66 percent in 1977. Total export receipts more than doubled from 1975 to
1977, when they reached approximately US$2.7 billion. However, merchandise
imports increased by 70 percent from 1975 to 1977 to US$2.2 billion, partly in
response to the import requirements of the increased public investment program
(see paragraph 7 below). The deficit on services and transfers also increased
at a rapid pace, amounting to more than US$800 million in 1977, but net
capital inflows of approximately US$500 million allowed a foreign exchange
reserve build-up of US$200 million.
7.        The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound government policies regarding public finance
and external aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt ser-
vice, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The level
of public investment is projected in the five-year plans and implemented
through a series of rolling three-year investment programs and annual invest-
ment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called for public investment of about



-3-
US$5 billion, the equivalent of about 30 percent of projected GDP (compared to
23 percent during 1971-75). The main objectives stated in the Plan were to
further increase production in developed regions, develop agriculture in poor
Savannah areas, accelerate the opening up of the southwest, and substantially
increase social services. During the last two years, however, public invest-
ment has increased substantially beyond what was envisaged in the Plan as
funds became available from coffee and cocoa export receipts and as the
country borrowed extensively abroad. New investments were programmed to
expand education and other social services, to develop sugar production into a
major industry, and for a variety of projects in transportation, energy and
other fields. State enterprises have played a substantial role in this
expansion, especially in that portion financed by external credit. The
increased reliance on external capital is reflected in total external debt
(disbursed and undisbursed) which stood at US$1.5 billion at end 1975,
US$3.6 billion at end 1977, and US$4.4 million at end of 1978. The impli-
cations of the sharp rise in external public debt are discussed below (para.
13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.        To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the access
to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with
existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income
distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the manage-
ment of the economy, and maintain a public investment program of appropriate
dimensions. Current government policies are directed with some success to
protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world market
prices and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agriculture
remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing in GDP
has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976.  Within agri-
culture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber,
cotton, coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a dec:Line
of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in
1960 to 51 percent in 1976. In 1977, a year of very high coffee and cocoa
prices, these commodities' share of exports rose to 60 percent. As part of
a more balanced regional development policy, large infrastructure invest-
ments are underway in the southwest in an effort to develop access to that
potentially rich region.
9.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the north following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of ox-
drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment pro-
grams. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years, with
the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20 per-
cent of total income.
10.       Progress in the Ivorianization of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is



still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However, educa-
tion and training are given very high priority in the allocation of govern-
ment resources; increasing recognition is given to the employment potential
of the informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs
designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and commercial
enterprises.
11.       These new policy directions are being implemented at some cost.  The
development of new products, new sectors, and new regions yields decreasing
returns on investments. For example, agricultural diversification is being
extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; forest reserves may be
exhausted in ten to fifteen years unless reforestation programs are started;
the best opportunities for import substitution in industrial development are
becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive investments in the
potentially rich but sparsely populated southwest yield initially low returns;
large programs to improve living conditions in the north and other poor rural
areas involve long gestation periods. Finally, the direct and indirect costs
of foreign production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program has
also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the exceptionally
large surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the stabilization fund (equiv-
alent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program still relies on external
credit for 40 percent of its funding, about 85 percent of which comes from
private banks and suppliers. This represents a large increase from previous
years. The overall terms and conditions of external public debt are harden-
ing, reflecting increased reliance on commercial credit, and the grant element
of public and private lending to the public sector declined from 29 percent
in 1969 to 10 percent in 1978. The increased costs of development, the larger
scale of investment now being undertaken and envisaged for the future and
the heavy reliance on foreign commercial credit to fund a major portion
of investment point to the necessity of measures to ensure that the limits
of absorptive capacity are not exceeded and that repayment capacity is not
strained. The substantial decrease in external borrowing during 1978 when
commitments were $900 million, or one-half the amount committed in 1977, is an
encouraging sign that the Government of Ivory Coast is aware of the situation.
Other recent measures include a much stronger control by the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement over the state enterprises' borrowing and investment programs.
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more selective in determining in-
vestment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels, the
medium- and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and
an annual rate of growth of about 6 percent is a feasible objective for the
eighties.
14.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have
been made, output of new products and development of new regions will start



-5-
to yield substantial benefits and can later be expanded at reasonable economic
cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protection and tax
holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution industries,
and there is scope for expansion of export oriented processing of local raw
materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies of income distri-
bution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to increase agricultural
productivity in the poorer north, and the promotion of the informal sector and
of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises) are fully compatible
with sustained economic growth.
15.       It is unlikely that the high prices for coffee and cocoa will persist
and export earnings will probably be considerably less buoyant in the near
future than in the past two years despite some mitigating effects of diversi-
fication into export products such as rubber, pineapples and industrial
products. Imports, however, have increased substantially and the large
deficit on services will remain as long as the country relies heavily on
foreign factors of production. Thus pressures on the balance of payments will
remain. The size and financing of the public investment program will be a key
element in determining the extent of these pressures. Expected decreases in
cocoa-coffee prices by 40 percent over the next five years combined with high
debt service are also expected to put pressure on public savings. I'heir con-
tribution to the financing of the public investments is expected to substan-
tially decline from a high 60 percent in 1978.
16.       The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new commitments
and indications are that the three-year public investment program 1979-81 will
'be closely linked to available public savings plus official development
assistance. The aim is to carry out as much as possible high-priority plan
targets while achieving an external debt structure consistent with the medium-
term balance of payments prospects of the economy. By these means it should
be possible to keep the debt service ratio at about 25 percent during the
next several years, thereby maintaining the country's creditworthiness for
borrowing on IBRD terms.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1978,
18 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 12 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 51 percent by the Bank Group), and 55 percent
by private banks and bond issues, while 15 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. About one-half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries: France (20 percent), USA
(12 percent), Lebanon (5 percent), and the Federal Republic of Germany (3
percent). France and the European Communities remain the principal source of
development assistance in grant form, accounting for about 2 percent of the
flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes thirty-six loans totaling
US$493.6 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Fourteen of these thirty-seven operations have been
for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut devel-
opment. There were six road projects. The remaining sixteen loans were for
education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water
supply, urban development, tourism development, small- and medium-scale enter-
prises, a regional cement project and a regional railway project. The most
recent loan submitted to the Executive Directors was for a forestry project.
IFC's involvement includes participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Develop-
ment Industriel amounting to US$423,500 and a 10 percent equity investment,
equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the
largest textile plant in the country. In May 1979, IFC's Board also approved
a US$6.7 million investment in Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A. (Siveng).
The project is aimed at doubling the company's fertilizer plant capacity to
120,000 tons per year. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects, with particular
reference to those which are encountering problems in execution and giving
rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's lending program will continue to
be in agriculture, supporting the Government's emphasis on developing
smallholders. A smallholder rubber project was approved by the Board in
October, 1978. A rural development project for the North-East is scheduled
for Board presentation early next year. The Bank is presently helping in
the preparation of two pilot projects aimed at strengthening the agencies
in charge of the rural development in the Center and the Southern regions,
and is associated with the preparation of a mechanization study, carried
out by the French CCCE, to determine the feasibility of introducing mechanized
farming. The re-organization of the former crop-oriented institutions in
the sector to become regional development authorities has been the main
cause of delay in the effectiveness of the Grand Bereby Rubber II and Oil
Palm TV loans. Last June the Executive Directors approved the first Bank
forestry project in the Ivory Coast which consists of a 20,000 ha plantation
program for short and medium rotation hardwoods.
20.       Another important sector for the Bank is transportation.  The Bank
was closely associated, as executing agency, with the 1969 UNDP Transport
Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis for determining future
priorities among transport investments. Thus far the Bank has financed six
road projects totaling $123.3 million. The first project was completed in
December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal estimates. The OED
report on this project dated June 28, 1977 recommended, inter alia, that more
emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This has been picked up in the
third highway project. The second road project was satisfactorily completed



-7-
in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modification and
subsequent poor work organization for the construction component. The third
and fourth highway projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the Gov-
ernment is covering; otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The
fifth highway project approved in FY76 will contribute to a further improve-
ment of the primary road network of the country. A feeder roads and highway
maintenance project was approved in December 1977. The Bank has recently
appraised a highway sector loan which would finance a portion of the coun-
try's highway investment program for 1980-83. A railway project, focusing
on the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was
approved in FY78. A second railway project to complete the rehabilitation
from Petionara to Tafire is being prepared under the first project.
21.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular, at the primary, secondary
and vocational levels, through two education projects. The proposed project
covers primary teacher training, vocational training and informal education
in rural areas.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan.  The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's low income
housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. With respect
to the smaller towns, the Board approved in FY78 a secondary centers water
supply project. A secondary centers power distribution project has been
appraised.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management in
the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises in FY76,
which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale project
approved in March 1979.  The Bank Group also provided support for medium-
scale enterprises through another local development finance company and two
lines of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the tourism
sector. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast :Ln support
of the CIMAO project which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana,
Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for the
production of clinker for the cement market of the three countries.
24.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$57 million annually in the 1973-78 period. The averige annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1978, stood at approximately 10.1 percent (including undisbursed). Its



-8 -
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, at present 4.2 percent, is expected to go up to about 7.0 percent
in the early 1980's.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
25.        The Ivorian education system aims at providing a basic education
for everyone, providing training for jobs in the informal sector, and
preparing students for skilled middle- and high-level manpower positions
to meet the requirements of the modern sector. Given the enormous require-
ments generated by rapid economic growth and the desire to reduce its
dependence on expatriates, the educational system has placed the greatest
priority on producing high-, middle-level and skilled staff. However,
despite the rapid increase in school enrollments, there is still a severe
shortage of trained middle-level manpower in the Ivory Coast and many
skilled jobs continue to be filled by expatriates, while unemployment is
growing among secondary school-leavers. Recognizing the need to redirect
its educational system, the Government established a National Education
Reform Commission in 1972. Its recommendations, which were adopted in 1977
by the National Assembly, consist in establishing a basic education cycle
of nine years with a practical content to prepare school-leavers for more
productive roles in the economy, making the university and other institu-
tions more employment-oriented, improving the efficiency of the education
system through better student selection and career guidance, and establishing
special training programs for rural youth.
26.        The education system is relatively well administered, considering
that there are, in addition to three education ministries, a ministry of youth,
sports and popular education, a semi-autonomous university, and several institu-
tes and training programs under various technical ministries. However, no
one ministry has a global view of the capacity of the education services and
its relationship to the country's manpower needs. Cost control of education,
educational research and planning suffers from this diffusion of responsibil-
ities and lack of coordination.
Access to Education
27.        In 1977, about 46 percent of the seven to twelve age-group, or
about 810,000 children, were enrolled in primary schools. But there are large
regional disparities between Abidjan, where enrollment is about 56 percent,
and the rural northern and western zones, where it amounts to.20 percent.
Access to lower secondary schools is controlled by a selective entrance
examination which only 15 percent of sixth-grade students pass.   About 50
percent of grade six students repeat in order to improve their prospects for



- 9 -
admission to secondary schools and 35 percent abandon their educat:Lon. Lower
secondary schools enrolled about 110,000 students in 1977 and upper secondary
schools about 20,000 (15,000 in general academic and 5,000 in technical
programs). The enrollment of girls, although remaining relatively :Low, is
increasing at all levels: the proportion of girls at primary leve:L increased
from 34 percent to 38 percent between 1967 and 1977, and from 16 percent to 25
percent at the secondary level for the same period.
28.       Vocational training programs for industrial, commercial and adminis-
trative employment are provided in the formal education system. In 1978, total
enrollment in these programs was about 15,000. In addition, about 8,000
persons participate in vocational training programs conducted by some tech-
nical ministries. Training opportunities in the rural areas for the young
and for adults are still limited.
Quality of Education
29.       The Government has always shown great concern for the quality
of general education and has set high standards: pupil/teacher raltios have
been kept low to assure satisfactory attention to individual students; a
large proportion of primary teachers have been trained; highly quaLified
expatriates are employed at the secondary level where there is a shortage of
local teachers, and an innovative educational television system has been
introduced. The internal efficiency of the system is high: at the primary
level, the number of years required for a pupil to reach the sixth grade has
dropped from eight years to less than six. At the secondary level, students
require an average of 4.9 years to complete the 4-year lower cycle and 3.1
years to complete the 3-year upper cycle.
30.       Progress in implementing the Educational Television Scheme (ETV) in
the Ivory Coast (partly financed by the Bank) has been impressive. Between
1971 and 1977, the number of classrooms equipped with television h,as increased
from 470 to 9,800; the number of pupils receiving instruction through tele-
vision, from 21,000 to 420,000. The justification of the television scheme
was based on better teaching and improved efficiency from televised instruc-
tion. It is still premature to attempt to evaluate the impact of television
on academic achievement; a number of studies on the economic, technical and
pedagogical aspects of ETV now underway will cast more light on thie strengths
and weaknesses of the system. Preliminary indications are that the number of
repeaters and dropouts in the ETV system has fallen substantially, but that
the recurrent costs have been higher than anticipated.
31.       In order to improve the quality of vocational training offered by
the formal system, the Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
has introduced an innovative policy aimed at encouraging the participation of
employers in the training process. An apprentice tax has been introduced
to help finance training programs for skilled workers, and employers are
encouraged to participate in the training process. Application of the
training tax is meeting with considerable success: skill training and upgrad-
ing courses have become strongly job-oriented, responsive to employer needs,
and financially self-supporting.



- 10 -
Education Expenditures
32.       The search for quality has resulted in high expenditures for edu-
cation which, in 1978, represented about 42 percent of the Government's total
recurrent expenditures (compared, for example, with 25 percent in Senegal) and
6.8 percent of GDP. Salaries for primary teachers range between US$4,000 and
US$8,000 per year; and for secondary teachers between US$9,000 and US$12,000
per year (about double for expatriates). Teacher's salaries are about 20 per-
cent higher than those of other public servants with similar qualifications.
Pupil/teacher ratios and the fact that more than two-thirds of the secondary
teaching force are expatriates explain the high cost per student per year:
US$120 for primary schools, US$1,000 for general secondary schools, US$2,500
for technical secondary schools and US$5,500 for university-level education.
Government's Education Policy
33.       The future orientation of the Ivorian education system will be based
on the recommendations of the National Education Reform Commission (para. 25).
A UNESCO Mission visited the Ivory Coast in 1977 and formulated a strategy
which can be summarized as follows: for general education, proposed modifica-
tions in course content and teaching methods should be carefully researched
and tested in experimental programs before they are fully applied. This is
particularly true for science and technology programs that require expensive
instructional materials and specially trained teachers. TV-assisted education
in primary schools needs to be evaluated further to see how it can be used
more effectively, perhaps in combination with radio. To cope with the
expected enrollment increases at the primary level the training of academic
and technical teachers should be accelerated. For technical education,
efforts to increase the participation of employers in the operation and
financing of vocational institutes, in order to make them responsive to the
needs of the economy, should be pursued. For agricultural education, evalua-
tion of ongoing programs and detailed studies to determine qualitative and
quantitative needs for agricultural extension staff need to be undertaken and
special efforts should be made to set up training programs for young adults
and unskilled school-leavers in rural areas.
34.       An appropriate strategy for implementation of the reform is being
studied by a number of technical commissions, whose work is at varying stages
of advancement. Delays on the rural side are mostly due to the fact that the
Government is presently in the process of a major reorientation of its agri-
cultural policy towards a rural development approach focusing mostly on small-
holders, which implies a redefinition of training at all levels.
35.       The absence of a timetable for the implementation of the reform
makes it difficult to project its financial consequences but it is likely
that education expenditures will increase beyond the current level of 42 per-
cent of Government recurrent expenditures. Aware of the need to find ways



- 11 -
of reducing this high level of expenditures, the Government has receintly
decided upon the reduction of boarding in secondary education, the rationali-
zation of the scholarship policy for University students, and the introduction
of a training tax paid by employers (para. 31), which together should result in
annual savings of about 6 percent of the recurrent education budget. The
proposed project, which provides inter alia for the training of less costly
but adequately qualified primary teachers, is also expected to contribute to
the Government's cost containment efforts. But more could be done by, for
example, increasing the proportion of education costs borne by the private
sector, reducing the high rate of repeaters in the sixth grade, and increasing
the pupil/teacher ratios and teaching load. The scope for improving the
efficiency of the education system and reducing its unit cost is perhaps the
most important issue frequently being discussed by the Bank with the Govern-
ment (para. 39).
The Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector
36.       The Bank has been closely associated with the development of the
education/training sector in the Ivory Coast for several years, particularly
through its participation in the UNESCO mission which defined the basic
strategy for implementing the reform, maintaining a continuing dialogue
on the level of recurrent expenditures, and through lending for the develop-
ment of the formal education system under two education projects and for
training components in agriculture, highway, and railway projects.
37.       The first education project (FY 1970) provided for the construction
of three primary teacher training institutes, three (later reduced to two)
general secondary schools, two secondary technical schools, two post-secondary
technical schools (one for agriculture and one for industry and commerce), and
one vocational school for adult training. It also provided for the construc-
tion of the television complex in Bouake, its associated teacher training
facilities and specialist services for educational television. Funds were
also provided to complete a nationwide inventory of existing secondary school
facilities. A completion mission, which took place in May 1978, found that
the major objectives of the project--to provide facilities for an increased
output of trained manpower for industry, commerce and agriculture--have been
achieved. The project has permitted the introduction of some innovative
measures that focus on training for employment rather than for a subsequent
level of education and    involve employers in the operation and financing
of vocational training institutes. The results of the ETV scheme have been
mixed. On the positive side, the project has helped to set up an evaluation
system of the ETV which is expected to provide the basic information needed
to develop the system further. On the negative side, problems in conception
and design of the TV production studios caused serious delays in implementa-
tion of the ETV scheme.



- 12 -
38.       The second project (FY 1975) was prepared at a time when only the
broad outlines of the reform were known. It reinforced the objectives of the
first project by constructing two additional primary teacher training centers,
upgrading and equipping four adult vocational centers and extending specialist
services related to educational television and the secondary school inventory
started under the first project. All construction work has been completed on
time, and the project schools are functioning well. The project also financed
studies to examine proposals for introducing practical instruction in secondary
schools and adapting education to regional needs. The study recommended greater
decentralization of formal education and the creation of informal training op-
portunities.
39.       The problem of the high cost of education and the need for a
review of the priorities within the education sector have frequently been
discussed with the Government. The Bank has pointed out that higher education
absorbs 50 percent of the capital investment in education, a level that is
difficult to reconcile with the commitment to universal literacy. The Bank
has noted that agricultural schools amount for only one and one-half percent
of current expenditures despite the fact that agriculture provides employment
for 75 percent of the work force. These issues have been discussed at both the
macro and sectoral level and, as was noted in paragraph 35, some appropriate
measures have already been taken.  The Government has also recently started a
study of the recurrent cost implications of the investment program in education
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, to
analyze education costs and establish guidelines to improve cost cpntrol.
This study, which is expected to be completed by March 1980, will be taken
into account in the preparation of the 1981-85 Development Plan. An assurance
to that effect has been obtained (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). The proposed
project includes specialist services to help the Government follow up on the
study and to implement its recommendations with a view to achieve a better
control of education recurrent expenditures.
40.       The proposed project is designed to support the Government's develop-
ment efforts for education. Its principal objectives for primary education
are to increase the number of qualified teachers through the establishment
of four additional primary teacher training centers. For technical education,
the project would help relieve the shortage of skilled middle-level manpower
for the modern sector by establishing four vocational training centers for
training in construction, electrical and mechanical maintenance, agro-
industry, business and commerce. The project would also help the Government
define ways of providing informal education and training opportunities to the
rural population. The Government is presently conducting an experimental
community development projet, called PROMOVILLAGE, located in the North at
Boundiali, which aims to provide villagers with information on ways to improve
their living conditions in such fields as literacy, health care, water supply,
rural credit, and cooperatives; PROMOVILLAGE also assists in setting up
village committees to identify priority activities, determine training needs
and coordinate Government services with the villagers' self-help efforts. The
proposed project would provide for the evaluation of this ongoing experiment
and the execution of a second pilot project in order to test the replicability
of the scheme.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       Based on the findings of a UNESCO sector mission in early 1977,
a project Identification Mission visited the Ivory Coast in May 1977. A
follow-up mission in October 1977 reached agreement in principle with the
Government on items which could be considered for financing by the Bank. The
appraisal took place in October 1978, and a post-appraisal in February 1979.
Negotiations were held in Abidjan from August 28 to 30, 1979. The Ivorian
Delegation was led by Mr. Coulibaly, Director of the Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissements (CAA) and included representatives of the Ministries of Economy,
Finance and Planning, National Education and Agriculture. Representatives
of the African Development Bank also participated in the negotiationsi. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2460a-IVC dated November 16, 1979 is being;
circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
42.       Locally established architects have been appointed to prepa,re
the architectural designs under the supervision of the Project Unit estab-
lished under the previous projects and the Ministry of Public Works. Sketch
designs for most project institutions were approved prior to negotiations.
Preparation of final architectural drawings and bidding documents has been
proceeding since. The proposed loan would provide retroactive financing,
up to a maximum of US$500,000, for expenditures incurred between September 1,
1979 and loan signing,for architectural services, project unit staff and office
equiment.
Project Description
43.       The proposed project, to be implemented over the 1979-84 period,
would comprise the following components:
(a) Vocational Training: construction, furniture, equipment,
technical assistance and staff training for four vocational
institutes, to train skilled workers and technicians in
building construction and public works, electrical and
mechanical maintenance, agro-industry and food processing,
and business and commerce;
(b) Primary Teacher Training: construction, furniture and equ:Lpment
for four primary teacher training centers;
(c) Community Development: construction, furniture, equipment and
technical assistance for an experimental community development
program;
(d) Educational Planning and Project Preparation: specialist services
assistance and equipment for educational planning and the
preparation of an education/training project; and
(e) Project Management: specialist services and equipment for
project implementation.



1. -ti -.
44.       Vocatinal Training.  The four institutes would be located in
the western region of the country-- San Pedro, Man, Odienne and Gagnoa.
They would provide full-time pre-employment training for lower secondary
school graduates or for students who have completed the nine-year educational
base under the reformed structure, as well as upgrading courses for employed
workers. Full-time programs would take three years to be completed. Students
who would complete the three-year program would be awarded a technician's
diploma and be required to work at least three years before being eligible
for further study. With a combined enrollment of 1,900, the four institutes
would have an annual output of about 600 technicians, and cover about half of
the expected demand for such personnel over the next decade.
45.       To assure sufficient liaison between the institutes and the job
market, advisory committees, composed of employers and educators, with terms
of reference which would be reviewed with the Bank from time to time, would be
established for each of the major occupational fields taught in the vocational
institutes by no later than December 31, 1981. These committees would advise
on program content and curricula and assist in placing graduates in jobs. By
September 30, 1983, counselors, who would provide students with information on
training programs, career opportunities and employment vacancies, would be
appointed at each of the vocational institutes, and the Government would
reinforce its central service within the Ministry of Technical Education and
Vocational Training for placing students in practical assignments (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04).
46.       Instructional staff for the vocational institutes would be recruited
from among graduates of the recently opened National Technical Teacher Training
Institute (IPNET) in Abidjan or transferred from other secondary technical
and vocational schools. Since IPNET cannot satisfy the anticipated demand
for trained staff for the vocational institutes before 1986 at the earliest,
about 40 technical instructors and 20 administrative staff would be trained
through a project-financed fellowship program (para.52), and about 30 to 40
additional staff would be recruited overseas, financed directly by the
Government or through bilateral assistance. Assurances have been obtained
from the Government that the staffing plan for the first three years of
operation of each vocational institute financed under the project would be
furnished to the Bank for comment at least twelve months before its opening
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
47.       The project would finance four technical education specialists for
two years each to assist the Ministry of Technical Education in launching the
vocational institute program. It would also provide for a tracer study to
evaluate the effectiveness of the employers' participation in developing
training programs and placing graduates in jobs. The terms of reference for
that study would be submitted to the Bank for comment by June 30, 1984; the
studies would be completed by June 30, 1986 and furnished to the Bank for its
comments (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
48.       Primary Teacher Training.  The four centers would be located in
regions where enrollment rates are currently low; they would offer one-year
teacher training programs for assistant teachers and upgrading courses for
primary teachers. They would increase the annual output of qualified primary
teachers from the current figure of 1,900 to 2,400 in 1982, compared to an
estimated 4,000 teachers needed in 1990.



- 15 -
49.       Community Development.  The project would provide for:  (i) an
evaluation of the ongoing Boundiali pilot project which would last about two
months and lead to recommendations on how to develop PROMOVILLAGE, (ii)
design and implementation of a follow-up operation in Seguela, which would
include the construction of a training center and the implementation of
training programs for community development agents and village leaders, and
(iii) an evaluation of the Seguela operation. The terms of reference for
the evaluation of Boundiali would be submitted to the Bank for its agree-
ment, and the results of the evaluation and recommendations for the Eollow-
up would be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1980 and reviewed by the
Government and the Bank before proceeding with the design and implementa-
tion of the Seguela program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). The project
would finance the construction of the training center; 22 man-months of
consulting services for the evaluation of both Boundiali and Seguela; 4
man-years of technical assistance to design and conduct training programs for
community development agents, village leaders and field staff; and 7 man-years
of fellowships to train community development agents.
50.       Educational Planning and Project Preparation.  The project would
finance 4-1/2 man-years of technical assistance to help plan investments for
education and prepare future education and training projects. Based on the
Government's ongoing study of education cost (para. 39), details of the
required planning assistance would be prepared by the Government and reviewed
by the Bank by April 1980. The technical assistance for project preparation
would be for priority items identified in the National Development Plan
(1981-85) and would include architectural services for preliminary architec-
tural designs and cost estimates.
51.       Project Management.  The Project Unit established within the Ministry
of National Education is headed by a senior Ivorian official, who is also
the Director of Planning and Investments of the Ministry of National. Education.
The Unit would be strengthened under the project by the appointment of four
specialists (13-1/2 man-years): a project manager to assist the Ivorian
Manager in the day-to-day management and financial control of the project,
an architect and a civil engineer for control of the architectural design
and construction supervision, and an equipment engineer. To each of these
specialists,except the architect, there would be attached qualified Ivorian
counterparts. Assurances have been obtained that these counterparts would
be appointed by June 30, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
52.       The project would include a total of 32 man-years of spec:Lalist ser-
vices and 67 man-years of fellowships. Assurances have been obtained that the
qualifications, experience and terms of employment of these special:Lsts would
be acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). Fellowships would
be granted by December 31, 1981, to suitably qualified candidates for training
programs acceptable to the Bank. Fellowship holders would be requfred to
serve at least three years in the positions for which they are trained follow-
ing the completion of their training (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       Project costs (inclusive of taxes) are estimated at US$84.9 million
with a foreign exchange cost of US$43.5 million (51 percent). Taxes would
amount to US$21.9 million.



- 16 -
54.       The Bank would provide a loan of US$24.0 million, i.e., 38 percent
of total project cost (net of taxes). This loan would cover the foreign
exchange of all project components with the exception of the construction
of two of the vocational institutes (San Pedro and Odienne) and the furniture
and equipment of all four vocational institutes, the foreign exchange of
which (US$19.5 million) would be financed on a parallel basis by the African
Development Bank (AfDB). The Government's contribution would amount to
US$41.4 million, including US$21.9 million of taxes, and cover the whole of
the local cost of the project. The AfDB loan would become available in two
tranches: the first loan of US$9.9 million has been signed. The second
loan of US$9.6 million is expected to become available in FY81. The
effectiveness of the first AfDB loan would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).  The Borrower would take
all measures necessary to obtain the second loan. If this loan were not to
become effective by December 31, 1980, the Borrower would provide the
financing from other sources at conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01).
55.       The average cost of construction is estimated at US$500 per square
meter; an important reason for this relatively high unit cost is that all
project institutions are to be constructed up-country, where the costs of
transporting materials and equipment and maintaining construction personnel
add from 5 percent to 50 percent to the price of construction in
Abidjan. The average cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$110,000
per man-year (US$90,000 net of income taxes) of which US$75,000 for salary and
benefits and US$15,000 for administrative costs, housing and transport.
Recurrent Costs Implications
56.       In 1983/84, when the project institutions are expected to become
fully operational, the Government's annual recurrent expenditures would
increase by about US$9.0 million in 1978 constant prices. This would corres-
pond to about 50 percent of the increase in recurrent expenditures projected
for that time. The Ministries of Primary Education (for the primary teacher
training centers) and Technical Education (for the vocational institutes)
would absorb US$7.9 million of this incremental recurrent cost, representing
about 1.5 percent of their estimated recurrent education expenditure in 1983.
The remaining US$1.1 million generated by the community development program
would be absorbed by the Ministry of Agriculture and would represent an
increase of 1.9 percent in its estimated 1983 budget.
Project Implementation and Accounting
57.       The existing Project Unit would administer the proposed project.
The Ministries of Primary Education, Technical Education and Agriculture have
each designated a permanent representative responsible for liaison with
the Project Unit. The Project Unit would establish and maintain the necessary
accounts and records for the project, in accordance with established Government
financial and accounting procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02).



- 17 -
Sites
58.       Suitable sites have been selected for all project-assisted institu-
tions. The Government has given assurances that it would acquire legal title
to all sites according to a schedule agreed during negotiations (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.09).
Procurement
59.       Civil works contracts valued at US$36.6 million, and furniture
and equipment contracts valued at US$2.2 million, financed in part by the
Bank loan, would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Civil works for the
community development component, valued at US$0.6 million, would bie awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Packages of furniture and equipment estimated
to cost between US$10,000 and US$50,000 each, not suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding, would be procured in accordance with local
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Equipment and furniture
estimated to cost less than US$10,000 would be procured through negotiated
purchase on the basis of quotations from at least three reliable suppliers
or manufacturers. The aggregate value of such items is estimated noDt to
exceed US$1.0 million. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of
competing imports or the currently applicable customs duties and imnport
taxes, whichever is lower. Procurement of civil works valued at US$21.5
million and furniture and equipment valued at US$13.6 million, that would
be financed with funds from the AfDB, would be in accordance with AfDB
guidelines and procedures. Architectural services estimated at US$3.2
million and technical specialist services estimated at US$4.5 millLon would
be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
remaining costs, US$1.7 million, would consist of administrative costs and
fellowships.
Disbursement
60.       The Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a)  45 percent of the civil works of the four primary teacher
training centers, the Gagnoa and Man vocational institutes
and the community development program (US$13.8 million);
(b) 69 percent of all architectural fees (US$1.7 million);
(c)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported or
50 percent of total expenditures for locally procured furniture
(US$0.3 million);
(d)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported or
68 percent of total expenditures for locally procured equip-
ment (US$1.2 million);
(e) 73 percent of total expenditures for specialist services
(US$2.9 million);



- 18 -
(f) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for fellowships
(US$0.6 million); and
US$3.5 million of the proposed loan would be unallocated. All disbursements
from the loan would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The project would improve the access to primary education by in-
creasing the number of trained primary teachers by about 500 per year,
increase the supply of middle-level manpower by about 600 skilled industrial
and commercial technicians per year and help find ways to contribute to the
improvement of the standard of living of the rural population in the Seguela
area through better opportunities for education and training. Since the
project primary teacher training centers would produce only assistant teachers
who would start at a lower salary than the majority of the teachers now in
place, the project would also contribute to the Government's efforts at
slowing the growth of recurrent educational expenditures.
62.       The community development program, which is experimental, is pro-
bably the most risky component of the project. The phased approach of first
evaluating the Boundiali scheme before proceeding with the implementation of
the Seguela project and starting the evaluation of the latter during its
implementation would, however, reduce the risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
64.       The draft Agreement conforms generally to the normal pattern for
loans for educational development projects. Special conditions of the
Loan Agreement are listed in Section III of Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
November 19, 1979



- 19 -
Page 1
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S-EET
IVORY COAST               REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AljERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. xn.)                                             - MOST RECENT ESTITA aE) -
TOTAL           322.5                                                 SAM        SADME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    171.6                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       VXCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGtON /c  GRoUP Ic   GROUPI
GNP PER CAPITA (JS$)                230.0      450.0    840.0            306.1    1097.7      1942.6
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(CL OGRA"IS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   76.0       Z28.0    380.0            80.6      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     3.5        5.0       7.5
URUAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3      27.7      32.6            17.1      49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJCTIONS
POPULATION tN WAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     14.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILLIONS)                      36.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2130
PoPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IM.                      11.0       16.0      23.0            18.4      44.6        28.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTUI.AL LAND   21.0       30.0      44.0            50.8     140.7       100.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.2       42.5      46.0            44.1      41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                       55.0        54.8      52.0           52.9       55.3        56.3
65 Ys. AND ABOVE                  2.8         2.7       2.0             2.8       3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.1         3.8/f    5.9/f           2.7       2.4         1.7
URBAN                              *-        7.5       9.3             5.7       4.5         3.0
CRUDO BIRtH RATE (PER TUODSAND)    50.0       49.0      50.0            46.3      31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0       22.0      19.0            17.2       9.2         9.1
GROSS REPPODUCTION RATE             3.2/g.h    3.1       3.3             3.1       2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIIED WOMEN)   ..         ..        ..              ..      34.7
FOOD AND NUtRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         57.7       97.0    115.0            94.3      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  94.0      114.0    115.0             89.5     105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRaMS PER DAY)        52.0        60.0      64.5            55.8      64.4        80.9
OP WHICH ANINAL AND PULSE       ..        18.0/i   21.4             17.9      23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0       32.0      27.0            22.3       8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE MeCTANCY AT BIRTE (YEARS)   37.0         42.0      46.0           47.0       60.2        65.6
INrANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..         ..        ..              ..      46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..      19.0            20.3      60.8        69.4
URBAN                              ..         ..      50.0            53.9      75.7        85.1
RURAL                              ..         ..       5.0           10.1       40.0        43.0
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        5.0      25.0           22.5       46.0        70.1
URBAN                              ..       23.0      33.0           62.5       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              ..         ..      22.0           13.9       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        25480.0Lj   15320.0  15220.0         17424.7    2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PRSON         ..     2480.0/k  1710.0/k        2306.6    1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PR HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              ..      850.0    840.0           502.3      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              *-      250.0        ..           201.4     253.1       260.2
RuRAL                              ..     1650.0        ..          1403.6    2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..           23.4       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..            4.9        5.3         4.7
URBAI                              ..         ..        ..            4.9        5.2         4.4
RURAL                             ..          ..       6.0            5.5        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NU43ER OF PERSONS PEr ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       1.9         1.1
URBAN                             2.5/l       ..        ..              ..       1.6         I.2
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS .0 ELECIRICITIY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             1.0/1       ..        ..              ..      50.0        66.0
URBAN                                         *-        *-             *        71.7        85.1
RURAL                              .,         ..        ..             ..       17.3



- 20 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
:VORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHE ET
IVORY COAST              WRERENCE GROUPS (AJUSTED  AVERAGES
IVORY COAST           ~~~- M~OST RECIN'T ESTIMATE) ,a
SAME        SAtE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION Ic  GROUP /d    GROUP 7e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PFRI-ARY:    TOTAL                46.0         76.0      87.0            59.0      102.5        101.7
MALE                 68.0        97.0      109.0            64.2      108.6       110.0
FEMAALE              24.0        55.0      66.0             44.2       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 2.0         11.0      t7.0             9.0       33.5         51.2
MALE                  4.0        17.0       26.0            12.0       38.4        56.4
PEtALE                1.0         5.0        8.Q             4.4       30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  13.0          7.0      13.0             7.0        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHR RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        45.0       44.0            42.2       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                           ..        21.0         ..            22.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.0/m       20.0      20.0            20.8       64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATtON                         3.0         10.0      15.0             4.0       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        17.0         17.0     120.0            44.3      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAD
POPULATION                           .         8.0       15.0             2.9       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERtAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  2.0         10.0       7.2             5.6       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       1.5             0.4         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
3TOAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1908.0       2600.0    2900.0
FEMLE (PERCENT)                   44.0        43.8       43.8            31.9       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             88.8        84.5       82.0            77.6       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.1         2.6        4.0             7.9       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               55.6         53.4      51.6            40.8       33.5         33.8
MALE                                61.4         59.4      57.7            53.9       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                              49.6         47.3      45.5            25.6        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8          0.9       1.2             1.2        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
ZCEIVED BY
RGIGEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9/n         ..        ..              ..       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF BOUSEEOLDS  51.87:         ..      50.0/n            ..       52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    6.6/n         ..       9.07:            ..        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.57:        ..       20.07:            ..       12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      217.0           187.6      270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..       76.0            96.8      183.3
ESTIMIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      387.0           138.4      282.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      194.0            71.0      248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMI LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             34.5       20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             48.7       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means, excluding the extrese
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicacors depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Intermediate Middle Lncome (5551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /a  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  Due to imigration population growtb rate is higher
than the rate of natural increase;   /g  1957-58;  /h  African Population only;   /I  1964-66;
u  1963;   /k  Government personnel only;  /1  1956-57;  /m  1962;  /n  Population.
Mfost Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



- 21--
torr',MrObU OF 3)O0 - . 1NOICATORS                                                              C 
totesj:  A1thugJ, the sata  s  dras  fro  n-une  geealytosd the meat  uthoritative  nd relanble, it ohoel ale  D. noted tuat they as  not ne intet-
tio..ally coopsrahlc b-ecs  of the lets of ct-nd-rone. defintaltnssdon           .n sd by dif ferean                innti   ..oolientg lhs data. The dais ar, no-shelees,
usful to I-sorie orders of  ngoutode, indticate treds, add ohsraaterdine certin  ajor liffereanes beoseen countrie..
The odotddro   vrae   o  esd ladjootor are popi.a~tlo-soghtsd genactoto  -ea, -Voluolg one esemsvlue. of the indIcator sad tie  -,t populated
~outry toain      rop    i to loan of data, gnop avenges of all iMd-tors for Capitol itrpicie Oil Coooeasd of  adotr   f A .ess to titer sad taos-eta
Dihoposa, tosing, incoe Distribution end povrty for other Cosotry grouLps afe popAlmoioa-oeigbted gedeetrio mesas  ithout excluion of the ent:eO5 calms. sed
the ome  populted cotosy.  Scone the oVerage  f ocoatries smg the indinators depends On avceiiy of oat sad is not -alfort cannon sut no exerised
in velatbg averags of onetodinato  on anoter.iThes  s-rsses ar  nosils  . V useful -. norssstotofcoe Cvlsshaopri   ie eenfOe
tojoao   totin  s  nn  h  ootrysdrfeneons
:ANRD dAREt (thouansd oqu.;.)                                                            A..e.s to thoreta  i    alpsl  Peren  of pultion   octal  I,ban, ad cora  -
Total- Tatal surtnn  area oneprisiog load  rea sad  nlnd. asters.                        4nber of  -eple (ota, whe, so  corl)  ervd byesret    ."ns.l a
Ag-mnitorsl -  icat renet vetinane of sgrioulus.are  coe..d teepersrhls                  pvratogea of their respective popsLutinos. E.nrto disposa  anyond
or peesnetly tor croP., pastures, onrint sad litoba  gardens or to                     toe -OtJlietino snd dispuste., siti or .vithout treatment, of boss.a  Corte
iie folos                                                                              sad oats-smatsr by osot-hbrne systo    or tho o-  of pit pr-ovies sd  -usla
INP  n CPITA~UW- GNP Per capita estimates so coret sskt priose,                      o   tnp,.sca-Ppltioivddbnuerfpaonighytas
cs.l&IiAt.Uby tam  -oovrsion aethd as World aMet Atlas (1976-78 basis);                  %(2 iiiflrdTibsicdiia- schoolati.  iacvdreoy iere.,oprtli phi.d
1500, 1970, sad i9T$ data.                                       P~~~~ocneslaica  -e  Rursoog Peren  - Paplatino divided by tote   of practicing Vale
ENRO  CSUWflN ~PE CAPITh - ossoul -conoption, of comeretal energy                      sod fteals 9radat ..ree.. practical nurses, and assistat eure-
(coall sod lignite, petroleu, naturl gas and hydra-, ounleer sad god-                   Poltln  e  dfositsl Red - total, whb, nod rura  - Pnpulation (total,  arhn,
threrml el1otraity) L in llgraem  of coal equivalent pr capita; 1960a  rual  divided by their respective  oMer of hospital beds -avalblnei
1970, sad 1976 data.                                                                     tpuiti so  private genral and spec.iaizd  -netpital sod -ebailltatino   entr.-
Hopias  r  esislishe"'ts p"e"tnetid  staffed by an Issot sac physiia
PORUIATION APW VIThAL STAtSTIfCS                                                           Estaolinhnats protddag prioopsliy notodial core   arent  noladed. cRal
total fppaLUtmio. MV-td --fe uTliolns) - be of JoIp' 1; 1960, 1970, sad                  hopitals, hoevr,islde health sad nedimel ceter  not pecaaneotly staffed
1977 data,                                                                             by a pisyslisie   bat by a -edloal a-testAt, nose  nidotfe , et.. ( obinh offer
Uiche  PipuLati.n  (peroet otta)- Ratio cf oche  on total population;                    :n-patieot acnamedstcn sad proide a limited  -6.g Of sedinal ftacilttes..
different dafinttne  f'!Rio  see .sy offert o parability Of data                     Admioin  tr Hlfnsdtol bed    otol oshr of sd-coi-o  to or                      frnhrge   en
s-g  onuties;l 1960, 1970, sad 1975 data.                                              hoptlriie   ytenner  f bed..
22Ql.to,  n  ea  20  - foret population projections ore hosed on                   SUIR
195total Ppoplation by age ead sea sad their sortallty nod fertuilty            bacesdn   fHueod(enn   e   oshl)-total. -ba. anod coral -
rate.3 P-enjetibn pae,eters for artality rates onuprios of theta                     A houeodonitso               ru fP ioda-dsl  ~hn snare  Iintg qoarters sad
Ievels asslnlife espeantay at birth lonreaiog nith nanory' a-her -in  -sLsB.  AL bsrder or Lodger fteu or n.y  Mt he  acludd inth
per -aphta  snen- leve, and female life eapestency stsbhlioig at                     houshold fnr etatitithal puePeses.
77.5 years.The paramters for fertility rate  Ials  hare three levael               haressesofpsnso  ct - tns "ob.  sad rut.- mAeae nuahr
as-sang decline in fertility anccrding to lwoot  leve  sad pest                      of  erens  pr- cet n  ll ob., nocral otupied conventioa.L dwellings,
foihy olasnhing performoae. Each noutry is tee eassigned on  Of these                reepestively.  DeeJlliags s.-I.ad  aa-prerusent etrntursa sad ononnpied ports.
nine combl.rinatIn  of sartajlty end fertility trens for projection                Accessa to Sl2strinin   peceet of duelings) - total, orbsa, j4  -Al~ -COO-
purposes.                                                                             rent is... dweliegs  ith eeciri-ity in livinVg  uarters .e peroentag  of
dt.ina  s  nneoAiina - D s  tntoasy puPulation there is an. groedeh                    total, orbs., sod rural d-elllngs rPespoiae].
-asce the birth rate in  qal On the death rats, end .als  the age
otrunture rinio   onotent. This is ac-hIeved only after fertility rates         EDUCATION1
decline in the -eploasadt le-ni of salt net reprdonction  rate, obs                idstd dorolonot Ratio
send gedensctin  of   - replaces itself  a-itl'.  rhe stationary pope-               fin?ono-I  tota.l, coe sad female  G-0.ne  total, male sad feaai.n esrol-
1atins nine en  estimated on the basin of the preeted cheracsristios                   sent of all ogest the p-isy leve1a  preremtoges Of r-spenti-e prissy
of ahepoplation in the year 2000, and the rate Of decline Of fertility               -ohoul-age pnpuLstios.; onreally  -inolode  children aged 6-il year  but
rte onrpaeen  ee.njosted for different Lengths of priary  donatlon,; toe conotr-a oath
eanithoeV       ooliosi        -rahed - The year  ben statin-ary pepaltion            enlrerea  educatino  weollneot sa  recesd 100 percent coi-  som  pupils
oboe has hb-  reahed,                                                                  orehe     Or shov  the offinVal school age.
Pneeolntian   ensity                                        Secodery sohonl   total, sal  sad f-sals - Computed as sh-n;  -ecdsr
Per o. ion.- ho-year Ppoplation per eq-as  Itil-ter (103 hentaros) of                     soontn  rqirsat leat four years of approved Prisor  inatrotina;
totaloe                                                                                preidna genera  cectic...l, or teachr tralong iniot          rn   o  Ppupls
Pe  o. m  ohutrlLand - Oseuted as above for  gricult.urm  loand                           -eull' of  2 to 17 years of age; corr-epe-dence Vneree  ar  g-ora.lyf
only.                                                                                  ecInded.
PnYsla tino Age Structure (percent) - Children )0l14 Yearn), *  orking-ge                VoatIonal erlao   P stc   eodr)-fotoa  int itutions include
15~-0  year),,en  retirec (iS yeasr  and, oe) as pecoectages of mld-year                technonal, in st.il, or othe.r prgsecln   prt   odpeodeehyora
pepulatLOn; t76, 1970, sad 1977 data.                                                    dpeprtmendts of  -etodas  institutIon.-
Pow.Latio  Growthkt hone   prnt) - ;toa  - Annu1al rsth rates of total mid-              PoPil-teaher ratin - Pri=r   nod scnary - Total nausate enrolld in
year pouain Eo   900,10-0  and 1970-77.                                                  prirysd osndrPed    ibe   y o                       Ihr   f teachers in tie noner-
Po=ltOn. Growth Pacei5t    cent   - afho  - Astosl growth rate. Of orhn                    np-sdlg levels,
poultions f. o190 , 1500-7, and 1970-75.                                            udoolt literacy rate (pern...t) - Litera.te oduto (sable tn resa and orite) u
Crude Birth hats  pec thoonod) - bnA-.1I Liv  hints per thneassad of cod-                  aperoatage of total adult p.puLtihon aged 15 year  ted over.
year  npaic;19  , 1970, son 1977 data.
trudo Deases bate (nor thoonod) - Annua deaths Per th-asend of no-dfror              :oiqUMTuo Yi
P.poaton  15900, 1970, sand 1_977 data.                                              P....ozer Cor  (per thousad pnlto -P..e..ngec cor  voprio  en to. car
GrnReodIIt.n  Onte - ieApsg aseher of d-sghtern a  0            iii hear              tooting les  th-enioght persons; esniudes  aosens  hsa-e  end nilitory
toher -ormal reprodntiro period of chs sop-roen... presen t age-ceiln
opecific tertoility rates; usualy ftin-pyear averges  .ndi.  in 1500,                Radi .eceI er  tre..   op oonoaVd.P onltion   - Al types of r-.1ivec  for radio
1970, sad 19.75.                                                                       todnantn to genra  poio per  hoonoa  o.fipopulation; enoIdes colin-ens
fe_il  Plain   -  _cosetor      =     ,s thousand) - cana  nubr of                       re- -nr  in coutries sad in "eer  ohencgiatrani  of  -aio  -eto ca  to
onneptore of hirth-o.toldvie  udr  -api.e. of nati.nal fnmlly                          vffect; lain for recent fear  any not incaprhe  atone!e oct counries
planning program.                                                                       hllobhd lcnig
ne"dly plI"aino - mere (pervent4 ofyrnid note)     Pernestge of naried                 itt PeorIa-era tnec th-sosd peuain)-            - eeires for  -cedonst to gsao.rsl
coreea of child-beriag ap   13-i yors) oh  uebrhcnoldves                            -P.ll  pe  ioiod Ppepulation; cooldensalsoe  TV racivbrer  in coutries
to all  ar-td. nose  in san  age grop,                                                 and in years ohen registration cf TV nets was in effect.
"esojer "Ciouaio  'Pe  tiooo 'h.io)- hw  the average nicesLaiin
__________________                                                  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f dailygenera7l.iters  noeaer,dfie-o    e  cne  plhation
Ind.. of food prductiOn per Capt I     i6-110  - Iaden of per .apita                     devoted prmsarly to renrding general ten.  It in conidered Pto lbe  daily
an-noo  produ.tiot cf nIl food cnilo.Poutiont -rvidee esed. sad                        if it  ppeor  ot least tour timee nt...k
fesd sad is   onclendar year basis.  Cosdities cover priery gooda                    Cinena Adml.n Attendono  per Capita Is- ha  - Baned on tie-0 tan r o  tivistn
(e.g. n,gaosa  instead of nogar) obioh ore edihle end ... tain  ntrients                odorn.h  yedad,  _oldingaosin   o  rn  i   lresadehl
(e.g. cofe   nd tea are ectided).  dggregate prdootion of each coutry                  union
is baeed no national nerg .      dnrpienihs
Per ospit  supply ofcl    eia toecet Ofrqireno- Coeputed fin                      LABOR P00GB
roe    quivaletofnt  food P suplie  avaoial  -n costry Per on.pita            Total Labor Force, th-uoadn) - EVont-lyal  abtirs p-rnoe, isidng             Lnd
per dy.  Available nupplies n-prise d-stin prodotimn, Loprte less                    focees sod  -sloyed hut e-cludig h-onehen, students, etc. D efinitico
-oprts, and Changes 10 stak.  Met supplies e-ciod  saisal feed, seds,                onvaious coutries ar  tot :--b.
quatitie  osad in food proessing, and Jceses in distrihotion. Reqsi-               lygn~j rogletr)_-Feale labo  foce  as pecetage of total Lnhbr focee.
eIn  er  etistod by rhO booe.d on physiological. ..eeda for normal                 ciotrr            t) - labor tome. in fseleg  forestry, hunting sad
notiity sod health n-aid-riog --rirnental te-perature, hody selghnto,                fis.hing a  per-etatgs of total labor foros
age sd swdintribtiono of POPulatino, sad allo-nbg 10 peCeent for                   inuty(e-et     ao  t-c- in alning, nontrutios, enfaturieg sad
asats at house.hold le-el1lcrcty.ae   a  gns an petentgs of total Labor forts.
Per capita.- tplofprotein (gree  nectd%a) - Protein content cf per                   fartinipati-n Eate (peceent) - total sole, sad female - 1tarticipatisa or
onPit, nt no.pypl,yof  fopeda.etopply of food is defined on                         activity rates are c-puned a- total, sale, and Peale  abor foce  as per-
nine.-  Requiremets for .11 nastrise established by tUSD  provide fora-nee  of toctal, ale.,end feels population Of sin age-s respectively;
amine.  Ullatnc  of 60 grams of total protein pe  dss sad 20 gram  of                1960, 1970, sad 1975 data.  These are hLOe prt1nipatin  rates reflecting
noelnod pelse protein, Of nhdob.10 game nhnsld be saisa  protein.                ag-neos truttue Of the PePUlatine, sd incg tame trent.  A Pen estimates
These standards ova inne  than, thos  o .f 75 Vas  of total protein sod              ore from national _ en s.
23 grass of sald protein  an  n avrage for the eo1S, proposed by ?AO               Reom-in         -Cshmy Rasio -  Ratin of Ppulation under 15 sod 65 sad c-sr is
in the Third Sord -oo  Survey.                                                      telbrfoce in age group of 15-64 yeasrn.
Pvc opit  protein  soo   from  nnIa sad oslac - Protein supply Of food
derived.Crnailssdple  to pan  p r S'.OIR  DISTPHJIMOP
Child (asen  Mi)titlt   os(ortosn).Anal deaths pa  thou-ad                             Peceentage of Pria-t  itn(both in cash sad intd) - Peoivsad by rioheet
inag  gop 1~l yearn, in children iO thisV agc  rp; for anet de-el-5peet,ihst2peet,orst0peet,adorstOpcon
optog cutisdata derived fine life tahbl-                                               of noushbodo.
hiAlT)                                                                                 POVERTY TAPOfr 10C0P2
LIfe Eopeensacy at Rorib (yearn)  A-taeage tonb- of fran  Of life                      Entmnated Ahaclute Ot-ety  one  lea-cl 0S$ per nApit.)   urban end corl 
Preainn   atbrh  150, 1970, san 1977. -lin                                              Ahs-iate povrty   ..te level is that inco-n level bela- which a sintal
ifent Ietaity Pale (per th-teand) - Annual denibs Of infsabt  -nder one                 nutritionally  deqonte diet plu .eaae.ntial Ron-food reqairsets in  Mto
poor of age per thoowed live bia-thn.                                                  affordable.
Aone-n to Safe Water (Percent of popuition~ -_Icta   ubap, nod a-oal -                 t tisld Relativ  "ovety bone la-e  (US$ oer capita) - o-b- sad rurl 
Noie  of  epa-pi  toal buis, so.orlciir             bcnai  aca  tb-    erl.adtive poverty la "e len   in one-third of overae Por napon
oaf, -tair sopply ;inoladee trea.ted sorf.ce ontern or .,trented tut                   pernona  moose of tie coot-y.  ebos iC-1 to Oscne  Pro  tie  -oca  leve
onootmi"ated n-ter ..hi as that fron prbtonted hor-hlea, opringe,                       ith edju.netao  for higher cost of liv-ing it urns  areas.
sd  saitAry nails) asprenae  of thrir respective populaticon.- In                   Fstimated FPpulation Bele ZPhenl te Povety moonsleae-    ~      ret  - -ba ad
en ombn area a public f-cteIA Or ntsadpat located. not acr  than                       cral - Pora-nt of ppltIon ;ohnsd rua)  i   rcaolut   or
200 metera f-n  a house say be conidered. an being otbid  reasonable                                       P
aMean of tht house,  IO rural areto rasonable noeen.  -ud ieply
that the  "nseefeorebers of the household do not have in speed a                                                               .o..sic and Social hat. Dia-isloc
disjpmProptonate pact of the day ic fetching the faniSy. ..oter needs                                                    onoi  Analysis sad Projeeti.o. Dpepatment
togust 1979



- 22 -
A N3T
Page -
(Amouns  n   ions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                        Proected               1965-   1976 -   1978 -   1985 -
1965     1_70      1976        197       190     199        1976    1978      1985      1990      1965    1976    -sBe
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
5-Year Average at 1967- 196  Prices & Exchange Rates          A,2erage  Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of GD:
Grcss Domest;c Product             1041      1479     2245        2622      3984    5404         7.2     8.1       6.2       63    105.9   10'.    Tnci L
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)       -'j8 6      O 3     -77         -28     -34                                                                 .6    -9,4
Gross Domestic Income            9    3      1509     27594                                      75      9.4 5           .0  5.9 1+ .0 100.0   100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                  346       570      826         974      1210    1472         8.2     8.6       3.1       4.0     35.4    38.1    33.2
Exports   "  (imwort capacity)       6       _88      -810        -979    -1205   -1585          7.6     9.9       3-0       5.6     36.8    37.4    33.1
Resource Gap                        -1        -18        16         -5         5    -113          ,        .        .         .       1.4      0.7      0.1
Consumption Expenditures            785      1162     1661        1795      2440    3098         7.1     4.0       4.5       4.9     79.9    76.6    t7.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    184         329      522         795      1208    1638       10.0    23.4        6.2      6.3      18.7    24.1    33.2
Domestic Savings                    198       347      506         799      1203    1751         8.9    25.6       6.o       7.8     20.1    23.3    p3.0
National Savings                    138       271       406        672      1005    1527        10.3    28.7       5.9       8.7     14.0    18.7    27.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
Inports
Capital goods                      61       111      417         870      1643    1933       21.1    44.0        9.5       3.2     23.9    28.1    41.8
Intermediate goods (sclfuels)    41          85      250         347       588    1727       17.8    17.6        7.8     14.0      16.1    14.2    15.0
Fuels and related materials        13        18      168         186       210      617      29.5      5.4       1.7     19.2       5.1    11.3      5.4
of which:  Petroleum              4        14      142         170       190     580       43.0      9.4       3.4     19.0       1.6      9.6     4.8
Consumllption goods                                                       1.z 6   =  25       17.2     2.3      12.0     11.9   5 4    J6J    .3 &
Tal Mrch       . ports (cif)      255       432     1484        2073      3923    6872       19.2    18.0         7      11.9    100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary produsts l=l. fuels)    246         394     1365        1918      2625    3984       16.8    18.6        4.5      8.6      86.0    78.4    64.9
Fuels and related materials        -          3       63          70        79      113         .      5.6       1.7       7.5      -        3.6     2.0
of which:  Petroleum             _          3       63          70        79     113         .       5.6       1.7      7.5       -       (3.6)   (2.0)
Manufactured goods        4        LQ   R1           -4          41R      JR                7 22.8    14.4      17.7     12.1    1        1 R3.1
Total Merch. Exports (fob)        286       497     1742        2402      4o41    6475       197       7.7        .7        .9    100.0   100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 1967-69   100
Export Price Index                 79      104       218         276       338     448       10.7    12.3        3.4      5.8
Import Price Index                91        99       239         284       434     605       10.1      8.7      6.2       6.9
Terms of Trade Index               86      105        91          97        78      74        o.6      3.6     -2.8      -1.1
Exports Volume Index               89      114       181         206       316     437        7.3   *6.7        6.3       6.8
VALUE ADDED 3Y SECTOR              Annual Data at 1967- 69 Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      365       426       550         600      753      881        4.2      4.6      3.6       3.2      35.1    25.0      18.9
Industry and Mining              173       287       465         535      841    1156        10.4     7.4       6.7       6.5     16.6    21.3       21.1
Service                           03       766     1230         1487     2390      3367       .3      0         7.0       7-1      4          Z      60.1
239o4    50         8.0      01       61        6.2    100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                         As Percent of GDP
(FC entral Government)
Current Receipts                 213       297       587        606       970    1226         7.6     1.6       7.0       6.2     21.6    27.1       26.6
Current Expenditures             55       231       37          42       680    1027         9.2     6.3       7.0       6.2     15.8    17.2       15.7
Oudhetary P avings c                                21t54                 3 290  199        13.9    -8.7        7.0      -7.0      5.9      9.9       8.0
Other Public Sector               24        75      154         605       382      655       20.0   100.0      -6.8      11.4      2.4      7.1      10.5
Public Sector Investment          90       158       368        786       672      854      15.1    47.0       -2.3       5.0      9.2    17.0      18.4
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                    Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.         DETAIL ON                               At end 19m7   P and ER.
As 5% Total Current Expend.)             1965    1976       1977      197p    198u         PUBLIC SECTOR
Education                               17.9    37.7        37.0      37.0    37.0         INVESTMENT PROGRAM                             (1976-80)
Other Social Services                    10.4    13.0       11.5      10.8    10.5         Social Sectors                          1716           26
Agriculture                               4.6     2.9        3.3       3.0     3.0         AgrIculture                             2046           31
Other Economic Services                 16.5    19.0        20.5      17.2    17.0         Pouer                                    7330          1
Administration and Defense               37.0    21.6       21.0      20.2    19.5         Power                                    726
Other                                   13.6      S.         6.7      11.8    13.0         Transport and communications            1518           23
Total Current Expenditures             100.0   100.0       100.0    100.0   100.0          Other
Total Expenditures                     6600          100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1960-      1965-    1970-   1973-         FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             1965       1970      1975    1978
Average ICOR                                        1.8        2.6       3.7     3.5             Public Sector Savings               3894           59
Import Elasticity                                   0.8       1.4       0.9      1.0            Progra2 aid counterpart    _             _
Mhrginal Domestic Savings Rate                      0.18      0.22      0.30    0.25            Forelgn Project Aid                  2706           41
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.12       0.16     0.24    0.20             Total Financig
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worke (1967-6q Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In Millions          % of Total          19 65 - 73         In U.S.Dollars       ercen  o Average          1965 - 73
1965       19 73   19 65       19 73     Growth Rate         19 65      19 7R       19 6s      19 73     Growth Rate
Agriculture                    1743         2093    85.7        82.9          3.2              209        215        40.4       30.6          0.3
Tndustry                        143          234      7.6        9.2          6.4             1210      1513       234.o      215.2         -1.0
Service                         127          201      6.7        8.o 0                        3963      4835       764.6      687.8           2.6
Total                          2013         2528   100.0      100.0           3.7              517        703       100.0     100.0   }        .9
riopaplicable            no-  r negigsbe
not available        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown



bALANCZ OF PAY2WSS, E11NAL ASSISSANCE AND DEbf
(Uncants in millicna of U.S. doijra  at current priceT.
Ang. A-mol
Actual                          Estirnted                                      Pro aectdz Growth Rate
1971        jZL4            7          197 t          ML            1973                                                                         1977S19 98
SUMKAR! E4LANCE OF PAYMENTS
Reports (incl. NFS)                         987         1428         1480         1935          2529           2831         2978         3293         3627         4011        4in7            10.D
-ta  icl. NFS)                        14L          1106         1S9 -11                    2161            3145         2980         3310         3624          98         4409             s g
Resource E XneL-Y)                     -5     4     122         -111    3     8-314                               -2-7323 59
lnterest (net)                              -33          -38         -56           -50          -84           -116         -155         -190          -226        -263         -307           24.0
Direct Lwv.tment 1ncome                     -64          -53          -83         -60          -215            -120         -100         -120        -134         -151         -169             7.4
Workers' Remittanc,e                       -123         -139         -163         -170          -347           -290         -290         -290         -308         -333         -349
Current Troof-er (3rt)                        4                        21           40            35             25           25           30           34            8           42
B3laneon Currenit ccotuntea                                                        r              _          - 21   -                     5    -Z43 ---   ---
Private Diect lnveetont                      48           28           29           50            50             60           70           80           90          100          112          14.4
Officil  rcpital Gronto                      17           15           19           17            20             20           20           20           20           20          20
Msblcr0 wnane                              228          218          326          355           785            897          987         1078         1188        1212         1318           li4.
D46         .81           -g9        -109          -243           -189         -403         -524         -607         -677         -778           31.0
Net  7isour.,ownt.                          18s          1641        25                          42           70f            F                      581   55 35               754             3.7
Other hkLT Ioan5/
Disbureaents
N;t Disbueeenst,                            ..                  ..                 ..            ..               0            O            O            O            O           o
Capital Transactions n.e.1.                 -21           28           51           -3          -170                                          1953       1974      l9f5          -         1977
Chanee in Ret Ree.-vee                       10          -87          178          -38          -199         DEET AND DEBT SR71ICE
Public Debt Out. k Disbureed    579          736       96        1183         1969
4ANT ADLOAN D CA IOMlT    S
OMficial Grants k Grant-like                 15           19           17           20                         Onterest on Public Debt          28         38         56i       66          104
RepaYent. on public Dsbt         44         77        8L        109          187
Public YhLT Loans                                                                                              Total Public Debt Service        72        115        137       175          290
T6aD                                        8          28          134           48             88           Other Dbt Serice (et)             3          4          3         0            a
IDA                                         8            0            0            0             0          Total Debt Service (set)          75       119        iii       175          290
Otber
Otksr HItilateral                          37           34            6           28            30        BRcrdec on Rxport  -redage (S)
Goveretent                                 21           47           51          121           1TO
Suppliers                                  73           89          169          169           420           Public Debt Service               8          8         10         9           11
FinanciaL Lntitutions                     119         11           87          484          1192           Total Debt Service                 8          8         10         9           11
Bc.d.                                       9            0            0            0             0          TLSoDir.at Lnv.t. 7c.             14         12        16         12           14
Pablic Loans n.e.i.                         0            0            0            0             0
Total Phblic YT,0f lians                    275          320    446            L               1900         Average Teams of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outftaeing on D         3 77                        mt. as S Prior TYar DDD         4.8        5.2        5.8       5.6          8.8
nlAL DM                                                                            'a,rcn                       Airt. a. S Prior Y-  DD&D   7.7            10.5       8.4        9.2         15.9
xbrld Bank                                          1EU.3                       6.
IDA                                                 106.7                       0.3                         TERD Debt Out. & DiOboreed
Other Maltilateral                                   104.6                       5.3                          "  a. 8 Public Debt OkD          5.0        6.7        7.7        7.5         6.4
Coverenmets                                         378.1                      1.9.2                          "  ne S Publie Debt SO-ioa   3.2            2.8        4.2       4.8          3.6
Soalien3s 397.3                                                                20.2
Financial Inetituticne                              94f. 3                     47.9                         IDA Debt Out. & Diabureed
Road.                                                19.2                       1.0                             as S Pablic Debt OD            -          -         0,2       0.3          0.2
PNblic Debta n.e.i                                     0.0                      0.0                          '  a.   Pablic Debt Service         -         -          ..        0.1         __
ToW   Public .kLT Debt                             1968.5
Otber MhLT Debt.                                                     -
Sbort-ts..  Debt (diab. orLy)
not applicable                                                     e  staff eati_to                          cinluded in Public MALT bate
..ot available                                                    n- il or negligible
not available seprately                                           --      . than hblf the
but incmlded in total                                                   alleet mtt shown                                                                                  Saptab- 1978



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1979)
US$ Millions
Loan or      Fiscal                                         (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose           Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                                7.5
Fourteen      Loans  Fully Disbursed                      78.5
761-IVC       1971   Ivory Coast        Highways II       20.5                   0.2
837-IVC       1972   Ivory Coast        Highways III    17.5                     0.9
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast        Telecom-          17.4                  10.8
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II          20.0                   7.6
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton            31.0                  17.4
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism            9.7                   4.2
1125-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Education II       5.0                   0.6
1161-IVC      1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V        43.0                   8.5
1162-IVC      1976   CCI                DFC                5.6                   3.3
1177-IVC      1976   BIDI               DFC                8.0                   6.0
1347-IVC      1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.        30.0                  15.8
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.        14.0                   7.4
1382-IVC/1   1977   SODEPALM            Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                  20.0
1484-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Water Supply    16.0                     9.5
1490-IVC      1978   RAN                Railway           23.0                  16.0
1501-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                    20.2
1575-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Rubber II         20.0                  20.0
1577-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0                  33.0
1633-IVC      1979   Ivory Coast        Rubber III         7.6                   7.6
1663-IVC/1   1979   Ivory Coast         CCI-Artisans    12.6                    12.6
1698-IVC/1   1979   Ivory Coast         Tourism II        14.2                  14.2
1738-IVC/1   1980   Ivory Coast         Forestry          18.0                  18.0
TOTAL                                         493.6      7.5        253.8
of which has been repaid /2             18.7       -
TOTAL now outstanding                         474.9      7.5
Amount sold                           5.1
of which has been repaid /2   3.6          1.5      -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                473.4      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                             253.8      0.0        253.8
/1   Not yet effective.
72   As of June 30, 1979.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1979)
Type of                US Dollars
Year     Obligor                       Business        Loan     Equity    Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne             Industrial        -      204,000   204,000
de Developpement            Developuent
Industriel                  Bank
1978     do.                           do.                      219,500   219,500
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.      Textiles                 884,700   884,700
Total gross commitments                         -    1,308,200 1,308,200
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                                    _____
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                  -    1,308,20) 1,308,200



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project was the first Bank's involvement in highway maintenance in the
Ivory Coast. The maintenance and betterment programs were successfully
completed in May 1977. The training and technical assistance programs are
being carried out under the Feeder Roads and Maintenance Project (Loan No.
1501), which continues the maintenance program undertaken under this project.
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is expected to generate
the cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out
its expanded investment program.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project includes: establishing of 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa planta-
tion, of which 9,500 ha would be planted in 76 blocks composed of individual
plots; providing technical assistance and credit to farmers; constructing
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
wells; constructing or rehabilitating access roads; and strengthening the
management. The project physical target has been met and SATMACI management
is satisfactory. The problem of quality of cocoa has been closely followed
and decisive progress in fermentation and drying techniques of cocoa have been
achieved. The financial situation of SATMACI is unsatisfactory as a result of
administrative delays in the payment of Government's contributions. Wfays to
improve the situation have been recently discussed with SATMACI and the Min-
istry of Agriculture.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial delays in starting the feeder roads and the village water supply
programs have been made up. The development of cotton production is i-ar ahead
of the appraisal estimates (36 percent). Improved food crop production is,
however, stagnating because of marketing problems. Some financial difficulties
are experienced this year because of depressed world market prices for. cotton.
Disbursements are behind schedule due to the re-organization of CIDT's account-
ing system and the administration's slowness in processing the withdrawal
applications. Discussions between the Government and RMWA on these various
issues are underway.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project is almost completed. The two primary teacher training institutes
which were constructed under the project are in use and most of the improvements
to urban vocational training centers have been made. Studies have been completed
on regional education needs, educational T.V., personnel management, and secondary
school inventories; other studies financed under the project are underway.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technicaL and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the lupdating
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Initial commitments by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial
intermediary, have been slow. However, the line of credit is now 75 percent
committed. Project execution is now satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1347          Urban Development Project:  US$44.0 million.  Loans
and 1348-T            (US$30.0 million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Effectiveness was delayed until March 9, 1978 mostly due to slow administra-
tive procedures. The execution of the project is now progressing satisfac-
torily with regard to the urban transport and sites components. The shelter
component is still delayed mostly because of slow administrative procedures in
on-lending the proceeds of the loan to the executing agencies.
Ln. No. 1382 1/       Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1484          Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1490          Regional Railway Project:  US$23 million Loan of
November 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although effectiveness of the loan was delayed, procurement is well advanced
and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1501         Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1575 I!       Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
*       Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Ln. No. 1577          Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 1978: Effectiveness Date: Sepember 14,.
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1633         SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satifactorily.
Ln. No. 1663 1/      Artisans, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan of June 15, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984.
Ln. No. 1698 1/      Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 million;
Loan of June 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Ln. No. 1735 1/      Forestry Project:  US$18.0 million Loan of August 2, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
1/   Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification Mission           May 1977
(b)  Follow-up Mission                October 1977
(c)  Appraisal Mission                October/November 1978
(d)  Post appraisal Mission           February 1979
(e)  Negotiations                     August 28-29-30, 1979
Section II:    Special Project Implementation Actions by the Bank
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions of the Loan Agreement are:
(a)  the Government would take into account in the prepara-
tion of the 1981-85 Development Plan the findings and
recommendations of its ongoing study on the costs of
education (para. 39).
(b)  advisory committees for each of the major occupational
fields taught in the vocational institutes with represen-
tation of employers and educators, and with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, would be established by
December 31, 1981 (para. 45);
(c)  a central service within the Ministry of Technical Edu-
cation and Vocational Training for placing students of
vocational institutes in practical assignments would be
reinforced no later than September 30, 1983 (para. 45);
(d)  at least one counselor would be appointed at each of the
vocational institutes no later than September 30, 1983 to
provide students with information on training programs,
career opportunities and employment vacancies (para.
45);
(e)  the staffing plan for the first three years of operation
of each of the vocational institutes financed under the
project would be furnished to the Bank for comients at
least twelve months before its opening (para. 46);
(f)  the terms of reference for tracer studies of the three-
year technicians program of the vocational institutes
would be submitted to the Bank for comments by June 30,
1984 and the studies would be completed by June 30, 1986
(para. 47);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(g) the terms of reference for the evaluation of the
PROMOVILLAGE pilot project of Boundiali would be
submitted to the Bank for its agreement, and the
recommendations of the study for follow-up action
would be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1980 and
reviewed by the Bank and the Government before pro-
ceeding with the design and implementation of the
Seguela program (para. 49);
(h) qualified Ivorian counterparts would be appointed to
the specialists of the Project Unit by June 30, 1981
(para. 51);
(i) fellowships would be granted to suitably qualified
candidates for training programs acceptable to the
Bank by December 31, 1981 and the fellowship
holders would be required to serve at least three
years in the positions for which they were trained
following the completion of their training (para. 52);
and
(j) the Government would provide the necessary funds from
other sources at conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
if the second AfDB loan is not effective by December 31,
1980 (para. 54).
Condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that ithe first
AfDB Loan Agreement is effective (para. 54).






IBRD 14171 R
COAST   ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pae   od                                                                         r nST EDUCATION PROJECT.
IVORY   COAST                               \       M    A    L  I                                                                                  0    OSoondary SOWlOOl. (31
THIRD   EDUCATION    PROJECT                                                                                                   Ear. y d .  'ie         ,  roadS -, VaaalThalTrainingCehI 2
S  *"\ .       >                                           .a.s  a n a.. Railways                               Hi",a T.rTil1-ndr1un
On Oaaakn                                                .4.    I niernatanal a~~~~~~          ~           ~ ~~irport  AWiout-r TehMAfil  lnssi-u
._.r' zosamrtO k-)                                             WS S t Ot    o r SiCOND EDUCATION RaoC-
i.__     _._   Internlcoran  b-und.,i-s               $p9lrral UprlnocasOrar (4)
*0 +                              C' y                             r t -0 A  e  ,_   t                  C       Ofticas o regional divl0ion1m               Vocational Irotitut-s Ia-
0 DynirIiCapitols+
2Q,, ' J 0 \<                                <Z                                                            00               M  -P i :a rorTrao T,rh cgos -rs   (4)
\   2                                          (    4                 \  1/ \                            KltnMeTers              *   T~~(  O5Cuni Dvlopmnt
\ Oi olodoOqoi.        l
I                   LO~~~~PPFR    VOLTA
FERKESSEDOUGOU        Fei r        -'  
G  U  I N    E  A \    Dlno Tsr  <  
             \;                  $          ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~0 \OR    j<X                       ; -           ~                                          '0ubu C
i /t~~~~~~~~Rodi .l_  m anego                                 @>    0m
r) f  '   .  f           0        K         k   #shuDam   \                         g         _>43                    AgniblX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ )
GUI N De k                                                 AA   )oossu     A svi<F        \   GU                                    H                               A N  A
L    0  RIA*   ,, t                                SESUCLA                                                                                             Sat Naqil 'No c  _ -  JDOUKU \
C-                    ~2-'~L                                                                                                                                  Tas                       i..rT
0 i A  R Ct  OiIONKOI AJM                                                                                                                                                  A Ar  c  cI Ah'  'T--
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                       MS   _Rahi  o kr  " 2 "    "'     i   .               I;  /     
_s. _   n   \                                   D \ X   ,          i      f |               : \                                            q 1 9       r 9    \                         _   vULY 197km
(.. / To l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ptao                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~ANbk.
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~~2
0                                                                                                                                         /      aGozoorol SD.~..           G          AN  
......                                                          B-g~~~~~~YOiOlr4'k.---9  7AOiS  
0-4,0'~~~~~~~~~                                                    rrbo 
Y.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rn  aa
t                                            b.b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow Al   aoua,atapt
A T ZAAN/7T                           COC EA N 
sbnwwawaaRIIta t                    Jil=  9



