Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2460a-IVC
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
November 16, 1979
Projects Department
Education Division
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:   CFAF Franc (CFAF)
US$1              CFAF 220
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)       2     =   0.62 mile (mi)        2
1 square kilomete5 (km )         0.39 square mile (mi
1 square meter (m )          =   10.76 square feet (ft )
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
STAFF APPRAkI3AL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
I.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINItNG SECTOR .....     ................  1
A.   Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector .      1
B.  The Education Sector . .......... ...................    I
C.  Manpower and Employnment ..... ...................       7
D.   The Government's Education and Training Policies..      8
E.   The Bank Group's Role ..**.........................    11
II.   THE PROJECT .     ............... ..                 ...    13
A.  Project Summary.       . . ..... . . .                  13
B.  Vocational Training ...       ...........................    13
C.  Primary Teacher TraiLning .....    ....................    15
D.   Community Development ......   .......................    16
E.  Educational Planning and Project Preparation ......    17
F.  Project Management ......     ..........................    17
III.   COST OF THE PROJECT AND FINANCING PLAN       .      .       18
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................    22
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................................    25
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..     ...............    26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
the Ivory Coast from October 1 to 21, 1978. The mission members were
Mr. W. D. Cooper (technical educator), Ms. J. A. Edstrom (economist),
Mr. J. C. Lair (educator), Mr. A. Papineau (architect) and Ms. Y. Mignot
Lefebvre (sociologist-consultant).
1[%is docunent has a rstricted distribuuion and may be used by cipents only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contests my not otherwise be dWsoued witbout World Bank authofation.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1      Structure of the Education System
2      Comparative Education Indicators
3      Education Pyramid, 1977/78
4      Projected Requirements of Primary Teachers, 1978-1988
5      Government Budget and Education Expenditures, 1960-1977
6      Cost Summary Table
7      Contingency Allowances
8      Financing Plan
9      Incremental Recurrent Costs
10      Implementation Schedule
11      Summary of Specialist Services
12      Schedule of Disbursements
13      List of Related Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 14171R



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
_
AfDB      Banque Africaine de Developpement            African Development Bank
CAFOP     Centre d'Animation et de Formation           Primary Teacher Training
Pedagogiques                                 Center
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation               French development fund
Economique
ENI       Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs                 Primary Teacher Training
College
ENS       Ecole Normale Superieure                     Higher Teacher Training
College
ENSTP     Ecole Nationale Superieur,e des              Higher National School of
Travaux Publics                              Public Works
ETV/PETV  Programme d'Education Tel.evisuelle          Educational Television
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation               French Bilateral Aid Agency
INSET     Institut National Superieur                  Higher National Institute
d'Enseignement Technique                     of Technology
IPNET     Institut Pedagogique National                National Technical Teacher
d'Enseignement Technique                     Training Institute
IUT       Institut Universitaire de                    University Institute of
Technologie                                  Technology
MEN       Ministere de l'Education Nationale           Ministry of National
Education
MEPTE     Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire         Ministry of Primary
et de la Television Educative                Education and Educa-
tional Television
METFP     Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique        Ministry of Technical
et de la Formation Professionnelle           Education and
Vocational Training
MOA       Ministere de l'Agriculture                   Ministry of Agriculture
ONFP      Office National de la Formation              National Office for
Professionnelle                              Vocational Training
ONPR      Office National de la Promotion              National Office for
Rurale                                       Rural. Development






REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
Basic Data
General
Area.                                                 324,000 km2
Population (1976)                                     7.0 million
(of which urban)                                    (2.4 million)
Population growth rate                                4.3%
Labor force                                           3.0 million
Per capita GNP (1977)                                 US$710
Education and training
Enrollments (1977/78):               Age group      Number      % female
Primary 1/                           7-12       810,240          38
Lower secondary                     13-16       110,590          27
Upper secondary                     17-19        15,160          20
Technical/vocational                15-19         7,790          23
Primary teacher training            17-19         1,380          13
University                          20-26        11,000          17
Student/Teacher
Teachers (1977/78):                 Number       % Ivorian           Ratio
Primary 1/                      1L8,700             100            43:1
Lower secondary                  2,675               39            28:1
Upper secondary                    810               26            17:1
Education finance (1976):
Central Government expenditures on education:
as % of GNP                                       6.8%
as % of total Government expenditure             42  %
Recurrent costs per student: 2/
primary                                          US$ 120-160
secondary                                        US$1,040
technical/vocational                             US$2,500
primary teacher training                         US$4,200
university                                       US$5,400
1/   Includes private schools.
2/   Based on US$1=CFAF240.



I



I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.   Social and Economic Factors Aff'ecting the Sector
1.01      The Ivory Coast has a land area of 324,000 km2 and a 1976
population of about 7 million, growing at approximately 4.3% per year.
About one half of this growth is accounted for by immigration from
neighboring countries. Appioximately two-thirds of the population live
in the rural areas. There are no predominant local languages and French
is the official language.
1.02      GNP growth has been high, averaging 7% over the past decade, and
in 1977 reached US$710 per capita, one of the highest in Africa. The good
overall performance of the Ivorian economy since independence has been a
result of the successful exploitation of the country's agricultural potential,
success in attracting foreign privale investors and external aid, and a rela-
tively efficient administration. Agriculture remains the most important
sector, accounting for 26% of GNP, but the share of manufacturing in GNP has
increased from 4% in 1960 to 13% in 1976 and the structure of the economy is
expected to change further in this direction.
1.03      In the past, most of the growth and modernization of the economy
have benefitted the southern part of the country. Current Government policies,
however, are promoting a more balanced regional development, particularly
through the introduction of cash crops and improved cultivation techniques
for foodcrops in the less privileged northern regions. Tle Government is
also seeking to improve income distribution by increasing agricultural pro-
ducer prices and by implementing wage policies in favor of the urban poor.
1.04      Since independence in 1960, the Government has (leveloped a high-
quality education system. The rapidly expanding and changing economy and the
growing social demand for education are placing heavy burdens on the system,
not only in terms of cost but perhaps more importantly in terms of its orien-
tation. Imbalances between the output of the education system and the require-
ments of the labor market, and the need to provide basic education and skill
training to the majority of the population that does not have access to any
form of education, underline the need for continuous change and adaptation.
B.   The Education Sector
Introduction
1.05      The structure of the Ivorian education system is modelled after the
French system and consists of six years of primary school, a secondary school
program divided into a four-year lower cycle and a three-year upper cycle, and
a tertiary level of university and other post-secondary education. At the
secondary and university levels, th,e diplomas are identical to those of the
French system. Specialized technical, vocational, agricultural and teacher
training normally begin after the first cycle of secondary education. An
outline of the structure of the education system is at Annex 1; statistical



-2 -
details are summarized in Annexes 2 and 3. Responsibility for education and
training is divided between three education ministries (Primary Education
and Educational Television - MEPTE, National Education - MEN, and Technical
Education and Vocational Training - METFP). In addition, some technical
ministries, parastatal organizations and private enterprises operate their
own technical or vocational training programs.
1.06      Since independence in 1960, the development of the education system
has been impressive.  Enrollments have rapidly increased at all levels, a
university has been built and the quality of teachers has improved. At the
same time, the country has undertaken a bold reform of primary education
through the introduction of educational television (ETV) and the production               L
of new curriculum materials and textbooks. The Ministry of Technical Educa-
tion has sought to adapt its programs to the needs of the industrial sector
by establishing a quasi-autonomous vocational training office and securing
employer participation in planning, financing and executing training programs.
The education system, however, is confronted with several problems that
could impede its national development and further expansion if measures are
not taken to correct them. These problems include diffused responsibilities
for management of the system, unequal access to education, high capital
and recurrent costs, and imbalances in manpower supply and demand. Although
solutions are not always easy to find, the Government is changing its educa-
tional policy and practices, particularly with respect to the containment
of recurrent costs (para. 1.25).
Organization and Management
1.07      The education system is relatively well administered, considering
there are three education ministries, a ministry of youth, sports and popular
education, a semi-autonomous university, and several institutes and training
programs under various technical ministries. However, this diffusion of
responsibilities makes it necessary to ensure that activities are well coordi-
nated, particularly in the case of non-formal and community development pro-
grams that cut across lines of organization and authority.
Access and Equity
1.08      In 1977, it was estimated that 810,000 children, or about 46% of the
7-12 age group, were enrolled in primary schools. Private schools accounted
for slightly less than one-fifth of this total. Enrollment rates vary con-
siderably: in the Abidjan region, about 56% of the 7-12 age group attend
primary schools versus about 20% in the rural northern and western regions
of the country. It is unlikely that universal primary education, one of
the Government's educational policy objectives, will be achieved before
the mid-1990s.



1.09      Admission to lower-secondary schools (grades 7-10) is controlled
by an entrance examination and only about 15% of eligible grade 6 students
pass this examination. Each year, between 40% and 50% of grade 6 students
repeat the 6th grade to improve their chances for admission to secondary
school the following year, while about 10% enter private schools and 35%
abandon their education altogether. Lower secondary schools enrolled about
110,000 students in 1977.  About 45% of grade 10 students go on to upper
secondary schools (grades 11 - 13), which had a 1977 enrollment of about
20,000 students: 15,000 in general academic and 5,000 in technical programs.
Students who fail to get into upper secondary school (about 13,000 in 1977)
seek low or unskilled employment and some obtain one of ithe 2,700 places at
vocational schools.
1.10      The enrollment of girls is slowly increasing at all levels.
Between 1967 and 1977, the proportion of females at primary schools increased
from 34% to 38%. At the secondary level, this proportion increased more
rapidly,, from 16% in 1967 to about 25% in 1977. In vocational training
schools,, female enrollment in 1977 represented about 23% of the total.
1.11      Many people in disadvantaged rural areas, whose basic needs include
the acquisition of literacy, numeracy and productive skiLls as well as
improvements in health and housing, have no access to any kind of training,
either formal or nonformal, nor to essential information for modernizing
their way of life. An innovative community development program, now being
conducted in the Boundiali region in the north (para. 2.11), is attempting to
provide basic services including literacy training to disadvantaged rural
people, while the introduction of educational television (para. 1.12) is
contributing to greater equity in education at the primary level.
Quality and Efficiency
1.12      The ongoing reform of primary education through the introduction of
educational television (ETV) is possibly the best-known and most innovative
aspect of the Ivorian education system. The main aims of the reform were to
expand primary enrollments (to reach about 70% of the 6-11 age group by 1975)
and to improve the quality and efficiency of primary education. To do this,
the Government proposed to improve the qualifications of its teachers, revise
the curriculum, produce more and better teaching materiaLs, reduce class sizes,
and introduce automatic promotion. A nationwide ETV system was considered to
be an appropriate vehicle to help implement the reform. A television produc-
tion complex, a production center for educational support materials and text-
books, and a primary teacher training college were constructed in Bouake,
with considerable financial and technical assistance from bilateral and
multilateral agencies. The First Education Project (Loan 667-IVC) assisted
in financing the construction of the television complex and its associated
teacher training facility. By 1977, the ETV programs and teaching materials
for the entire six-year primary cycle were virtually completed and about 52%
of all primary pupils were covered by television-assisted instruction.



- 4 -
1.13      It would be premature to attempt to evaluate the impact of the
reform measures on improvements in the quality and efficiency of primary
education. Critics charge that, despite the innovative nature of television
in classroom instruction, the content of most teaching programs has remained
rather traditional and the techniques of their presentation rigid, while
teachers' initiatives and students' imagination have been diminished. It is
also apparent that the printed materials and textbooks, produced as part of
the educational television programs and designed to support them, play a more
important role in the instructional process than was originally imagined.
Results from initial evaluation studies on the impact of ETV on academic
achievement indicate that television-instructed students have superior
ability in speaking French, but have lower proficiency in spelling and
writing. It is expected that evaluation studies now underway will cast more
light on the strengths and weaknesses of the system.
1.14      Recurrent costs of educational television, although decreasing
as ETV coverage expands, are about 35% higher than those for conventional
primary schools. Initial assumptions that there would be savings in teacher
salaries have not been borne out since there is now a larger proportion of
qualified and higher paid teachers in the primary system than before ETV
was introduced. Nonetheless, progression rates in primary school have
improved: the number of student-years required for one child to reach the
sixth grade (theoretically 5 years) has dropped from over 8 years (1966-1969
average) to less than 6 years (1972-1976 average). The effect of educational
televison on repeater rate and rate of access into secondary school is diffi-
cult to measure because repeating is theoretically barred in ETV schools and
television-instructed students take a different secondary school entry examin-
ation, thereby removing meaningful comparisons of ETV with the traditional
program. Although it is likely that a single entrance examination will
eventually be reinstated, the problem of the high repeater rate in grade 6
will persist.
1.15      Internal efficiency in secondary education is relatively high.
Approximately 40% of students entering grade 7 obtain a school-leaving cer-
tificate (BEPC) at the end of grade 10, qualifying them for admission to
upper secondary school. About 50% of students entering the upper secondary
cycle obtain a secondary school diploma (baccalaureat). An average of 4.9
student years are required to complete the four-year lower cycle and 3.1
years to complete the three-year upper cycle. These relatively high
efficiency rates are largely the result of well-qualified and experienced
secondary school teachers. The cost of high teacher standards, however, is
heavy: about two-thirds of the 3,500 teachers at secondary level are
expatriate and many of these are financed entirely by the Government.
Teacher Training
1.16      Primary teachers are trained at ten primary teacher training centers
(Centres d'Animation et de Formation P6dagogiques - CAFOP), of which seven
train Grade I teachers (instituteurs adjoints) in a one-year program following



- 5 -
grade 10 graduation (BEPC) and three train Grade II teachers (instituteurs)
in a one-year program following secondary school graduation (baccalaureat).
In addition, the teacher training college (Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs -
ENI) upgrades Grade I teachers in aL two-year program to Grade II level.
The total enrollment capacity of th,ese institutions is about 1,950 and the
1978 output approximately 1,400.
1.17      The number of qualified primary teachers has increased dramatically,
from about 40% of the teaching force in 1965 to 90% in 1978. About two-thirds
of these are Grade I teachers. A relatively small number of primary teachers
remain unqualified (moniteurs).
1.18      To achieve universal primary education by 1990--one of the Govern-
ment's educational policy objectives--primary school enrollments should be
increased by an average of 8.5% per annum, from 810,000 in 1978 to about 1.8
million in 1990. To keep pace with this enrollment expansion, the production
of qualified primary teachers should be increased substantially, from the
current figure of 1,800 to about 4,000 per year in 1990 (Annex 4). The Gov-
ernment plans to implement a construction program for one to two new CAFOPs
per year to satisfy these requirements.
1.19      Secondary teachers are trained at the higher teachers college
(Ecole Normale Superieure - ENS), associated with the University of Abidjan,
in a three-year program for lower secondary teachers and in a four to five-
year program for upper secondary teachers. In 1978, total enrollment at ENS
was about 1,200 students and the output of first and secondary cycle teachers
totalled 110 and 80 respectively, far lower than requirements to meet enroll-
ment expansion and replace expatriates (para. 1.15). In 1982, however, a
second ENS is expected to be established in Bouake and the production of
qualified secondary teachers should begin to approach the demand, particularly
at the lower-secondary level.
1.20      Technical teachers and vocational training instructors are trained
in a one--year post-secondary program at the Institute for Technical Teacher
Training (Institut P6dagogique National de l'Enseignement Technique - IPNET).
The 1977/78 enrollment at IPNET was about 80 students. The Government plans
to increase enrollments and to offer special upgrading programs for instruc-
tors of the vocational institutes (para. 2.05).
Technical Education and Vocational Training
1.21      Vocational training programs for industrial, commercial and admin-
istrative employment are provided in the formal education system by lower and
upper sec:ondary technical schools (skilled worker and tecinician training,
respectively) and by pre-employment skill training centers. In 1978, total
enrollment in these programs was about 15,000. In addition, a significant
number of persons (8,000 in 1978) participate in vocational training programs
conducted by some technical ministr:Les. Employers' lack of confidence in
the quality of training offered by the formal system in the past, and the high
salary expectations of persons educated in that system, have led the Government
to encourage more active employer participation in the training process by (a)
the introduction of a training tax, paid by employers as a percentage of their



- 6 -
wage bill, to finance training programs for skilled workers and operators; and
(b) the creation of a number of vocational institutes to train, with employer
participation in program design, technicians who would enter employment
instead of proceeding to higher education (paras. 2.02, 2.03). Application
of the training tax is meeting with considerable success: skill training and
upgrading courses have become strongly job-oriented, responsive to employer
needs, and financially self-supporting. The results of an experimental
vocational institute, created with Bank financing under the First Education
Project (Loan 667-IVC), are also encouraging, so that under the reformed
educational structure (para. 1.28) these institutes are designed to replace
the existing upper secondary technical schools.  To satisfy manpower demand at
this level (para. 1.27), the Government intends to convert existing secondary
technical schools into vocational institutes and to build a number of addi-
tional institutes.
1.22      At the professional level, higher technician and engineering training
in major disciplines is available at the Higher National Institute of
Technology (INSET), financed under the First Education Project, and at the
Higher National School of Public Works (ENSTP) operated by the Ministry of
Public Works. University programs in commerce and business administration are
offered by the University Institute of Technology (IUT). Although the output
of these professional schools cannot meet the current demand for high-level
manpower, a considerable expansion of both engineering and commercial programs
is underway or at an advanced planning stage, and future manpower shortages at
this level are expected to be met.
Education Expenditures
1.23      In 1976, total recurrent expenditures for education, excluding ex-
ternal aid, amounted to about US$290 million (CFAF 64 billion), representing
about 42% of the Government's total recurrent budget and 6.8% of GNP, some of
the highest percentages in West Africa. Approximately US$27 million (CFAF 6
billion) in additional recurrent expenditures was financed by external aid,
mainly from France, in the form of teacher salaries and scholarships. Annex 5
provides a summary of the Government's budget, including education expendi-
tures for the period 1960-76. The high recurrent expenditures for education
reflect the priority the Government attaches to quality education and are
attributable to (a) low pupil/teacher ratios, (b) high teacher salaries,
(c) heavy reliance on Government-subsidized expatriate teachers at the second-
ary and post-secondary levels, and (d) the use of educational television in
primary schools.
1.24      Budgetary allocations by level of education are reasonably well
distributed. At present, about 32% of the recurrent education budget is
spent on primary education, mostly (85%) for teacher salaries.  General
secondary education absorbs about 30% of the recurrent budget, while tech-
nical/vocational training and higher education each account for about 15%
of the budget. Since 1975, the Government has followed a policy of paying
teachers at a higher level than other public servants with similar qualifi-
cations. As a result, all teacher salaries are high: primary teachers now
earn from US$4,000 (Grade I - instituteur adjoint) to US$8,000 (Grade II -
instituteur) per year and salaries for secondary teachers range from US$9,000



-7-
to US$12,000 per year. Mainly as a result of high teacher salaries, costs per
student-year are high: US$120 for conventional and US$160 for ETV-assisted
primary schools, US$1,000 for general secondary and US$2,500 for technical
secondary schools, and US$5,400 for university-level education.
1.25      With education consuming such a high proportion of the recurrent
budget, the Government recently introduced a number of measures to reduce
unit costs and contain the growth of education expenditures. The most
significant of these are:
(a)  the establishment of a training tax of 1.5% on the
employers' payroll (in addition to the existing apprentice
tax of 0.5%), which is intended to finance vocational
training and upgrading of employed workers; the total
revenue generated by these taxes is estimated at US$22.5
million in 1979, increasing to US$27.0 million in 1980;
(b) reduction of boarding in secondary education by eliminating
the provision of student hostels at lower secondary schools
constructed since 1977; savings in capital investment are
estimated to be on the order of US$7.0 million per year; and
(c)  rationalization of the scholarship and residence policy for
university students by limiting the number of years a student
can receive a Government bursary and by providing free
accommodation only for the duration of a degree program; these
measures, applied at the start of the 1978/79 academic year,
would produce savings in the recurrent budget of about US$2.0
million per year.
1.26      The rising cost of education, with the increasing financial
burden iLt places on the Government,, is a major consideration for the
future clevelopment of the education and training system. The Government
has already taken a number of cost--reduction measures (para 1.25) and
has recently undertaken a study of the recurrent cost implications of
the investment program in education under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Economy, Finance and P:Lanning to analyze education costs and
establish guidelines to improve cost control. This study, which is
expected to be completed by March :1980, will be taken into account in
the preparation of the 1981-85 Development Plan. An assurance to that
effect has been obtained from the Government. The proposed project
includes specialist services to he:Lp the Government to fcllow-up on the
study and to implement its recommendations after March 1980.
C.   Manpower and Employment
1.27      Because of the rapid growth of enrollments in formal education
institul:ions on the one hand and the absence of well-designed nonformal
training programs on the other, the country faces the dilemma of growing
unemployment among secondary schoo:L leavers and a severe shortage of skilled
manpower.  These shortages are so severe that the absolute number of non-
Ivorians in the modern sector cont:[nues to increase. A solution to the
problem of unemployed school leavers will be found partially through
policies which promote the establishment of employment-oriented training



-8-
programs at the post-primary level and partially through measures to
improve the attractiveness of farming and farm-related activities. For
example, the training of extension personnel for primary sector production
-ulture, forestry, and animal husbandry--will be expanded while
health and community development workers should be trained to strengthen
rural services.
1.28      A solution to the shortage of middle-level manpower will be found
through the careful expansion of enrollments in training programs for occupa-
tions for which shortages are projected. Recent manpower studies show that,
for the period 1976-90, the occupations with the severest shortages of
manpower will include technicians in the building, mechanical and electrical
trades and in commercial and agro-industrial activities. The supply, demand,
and training requirements for technicians in these trades and the projected
output from the proposed project-financed vocational institutes (para. 2.02)
are shown below.
Estimation of the Training Requirements
for Technicians in Occupations with Manpower Shortages
No. of Technicians
Annual
Output
Projected      Cumulative              from
1990         Supply from      Deficit    Average   Project-
1976   (Projected    Existing Sources   1976-        Annual   financed
(Actual) Requirements)    to 1990            1990      Deficit Institutions
Category
Building Construction  1,600       4,300          3,200           2,100        140        130
Mechanical and
Electrical            3,100      6,100          3,300           2,800        200        170
Business and Commerce  8,700    22,300           12,200          10,100        680        180
Agro-industry and Food
Processing             n.a.      4,000          1,500           2,500        165        120
The shortage of technicians, as well as other technical and vocational occu-
pations, is not only a problem of quantity, but also of quality.  The Ivorian
Manpower Office reports that in 1976 it was unable to place one-third of job
applicants holding either lower or upper secondary technical diplomas (CAP
and BEP). To overcome criticism by employers that these diploma holders lack
sufficient practical training, employers need to be involved in the design and
operation of technical education and vocational training programs.
D.   The Government's Education and Training Policies
General Education and Training
1.29      The future orientation and structure of the Ivorian education
system will be based on the recommendations of the National Education Reform
Commission, announced in 1975 and adopted by the National Assembly in 1977.
The principal recommendations of the Reform Commission are to:



-9-
(a)  establish a basic education cycle of 9 years (grades 1 to 9)
with a practical content to prepare school leavers for more
productive roles in Ivorian society, followed by a three-year
cycle (grades 10 to 12) of specialized education that provides
either academic training in preparation for higher education
or practical training leading to direct employment;
(b)  increase the number and quality of teachers, at all levels,
and train them in specialized teacher training centers;
(c)  make the university and other professional institutes employ-
ment oriented;
(d)  establish special training programs and create employment
opportunities for rural youth to stem the migration of
young people from the rural to the urban areas;
(e)  increase the use of mass media, especially for the education
of adults and out-of-school youth; and
(f)  improve the efficiency of the education system through better
student selection and career guidance.
1.30      A Unesco education sector mission, conducted with Bank assistance
in 1977, helped to formulate a straLtegy for implementation of the reform.
This mission pointed out that implementation of the reform would inevitably
result in significant increases in the recurrent budget for education, and
the mission examined several hypotheses designed to contain the growth in
education expenditures. The strategy for reform implementation is being
studied by a number of technical commissions which have been working since
early 1977 on elaborating new teaching programs and methods, establishing
links with employers, and preparing the necessary executing legislation.
The work of these commissions is at varying stages of advancement, the least
advanced being that concerned with the reform of secondary education. How-
ever, implementation is expected to move forward now that the National
Assembly has passed the reform legislation.
1.31      The principal recommendations of the Unesco sector mission regarding
the Government's development strategy for education can be summarized as
follows: for general education, proposed modifications in course content and
teaching methods should be carefully researched and tested in experimental
programs before they are fully applied. This is particularly true for science
and technology programs that require special materials and specially-trained
teachers. TV-assisted instruction in primary schools needs to be evaluated
further to see how it can be used tmore effectively, perhaps in combination
with radio. To cope with the expected enrollment increases at the primary
level, more primary teachers should be trained (preferably in one-year pro-
grams) while at secondary level the training of science and technical teachers
should be accelerated. Particular attention should be paid to the integration
of existing technical high schools (lycees techniques) into the proposed struc-
ture of specialized streams at upper secondary level. For agricultural educa-
tion, detailed studies should be unldertaken to determine manpower needs and



- 10 -
employment profiles at all levels, to rationalize the utilization of existing
training facilities, and to make recommendations for the expansion of the
agricultural training system. The required studies are expected to be
undertaken following clarification of the reorganization of the agricultural
development service, which is now underway. For technical education and
vocational training, studies relating to the creation of vocational insti-
tutes and the participation of employers in their operation and financing,
have been completed. The quasi-autonomous national vocational training
office (Office National de la Formation Professionnelle--ONFP) within the
METFP, which appears to be well organized and staffed, would implement this
part of the reform. However, special efforts should be made to develop, in
liaison with employers, effective programs for traininR and upRradinR of
employed but inadequately trained workers and to set up training programs
for young adults and unskilled school leavers in rural areas.
Community Development
1.32      The development of commercial agriculture and industry in the
southern part of the country has resulted in significant inequalities in
income distribution between the north and the south and between urban and
rural people, and has created political pressures for the Government to adopt
a more eauitable development strategy. The Government has responded to these
pressures through agricultural pricing policies and through large-scale
capital works in the more deprived areas. Some of these interventions have
not taken full account of the aspirations and appropriate role of the rural
population and have not been effective either in redressing imbalances in
income distribution or in meeting the basic needs of villagers. The Govern-
ment is therefore developing a more participatory approach for assisting small
farmers and poor rural people, and in 1973 created the National Office for
Rural Development (ONPR) as a semi-autonomous agency to provide community
services to rural people, particularly previously neglected services and
training. This feature of the Government's development strategy for the rural
areas is formally set out in the Development Plan (1976-80). To implement
this strategy, the Government recently placed the ONPR under the Ministry
of Agriculture and assigned it the task of promoting and coordinating the
provision of community services to rural people.
1.33      The ONPR has started an experimental communitv development project,
called "Promovillage" and located at Boundiali in the north, as its first
major effort in implementing the Government's new approach to rural development.
The main objectives of this Promovillage experiment are to: (a) provide
villagers with information on what can and should be done to improve living
conditions; (b) assist in setting up village coordinating committees to
identify priority activities; (c) transmit proposals prepared by village
coordinating committees to the ONPR for follow-up action; (d) determine the
training needs of villagers and arrange for the training to be provided; and
(e) coordinate Government services with the self-help efforts required to
implement projects. There has been no formal evaluation of the Boundiali
pilot project, but questions have been raised concerning the effectiveness of
the surveys of village needs, the audio-visual techniques used to provide
villagers with information, the work of the community development agents and
their training, the village organizations, and the mechanisms for coordinatine



Government services.  Before extending Promovillage operations to other
regions of the country, the Boundiali experiment should be carefully examined
and the results of this evaluation applied to the design of new Promovillage
activities.
E.   The Bank Group's Role
1.34      The Bank Group has financed loans totalling US$18.2 million for two
education projects in Ivory Coast. The First Education Project (Loan 667-IVC)
signed on April 27, 1970, for US$11.0 million (later raised to US$13.2 million),
supported virtually all levels of the education system. The loan provided for
construction of three primary teacher training centers and construction and
specialist services for educationa]. television (ETV). Construction of three
(later reduced to two) general secondary schools and specialist services for
an inventory of school facilities and their utilization were aimed at encour-
aging expansion of secondary education. Technical and vocational training was
assisted through construction of two secondary technical schools, two post-
secondary technical schools (one for agriculture and the other for industry
and commerce), and one vocational school for adult training. The project is
completed; the closing date was December 31, 1977.
1.35      The principal objective of the project--to provide facilities for
an increased output of trained manpower for industry, commerce and agriculture
--has been achieved.  The project has permitted the Ivorian Government,
with assistance from other donor agencies, especially the UNDP and France,
to introduce some innovative measures that focus on training for employment
rather than for a subsequent level of education and to involve employers in
the operation and financing of training.  The general secondary schools
constructed under the project are functional, but the secondary school
inventory has not had as great an :impact on improving eff'iciency in secon-
dary edujcation as was expected. Ilt has, however, led to standardized
designs for school construction and to improved equipment procurement and
distribution procedures.
1.36      The project has contributed to the development of primary education
through the construction of a primary teacher training center (CAFOP) and
through assistance to the construction of an educational television (ETV)
production center and associated facilities for primary teacher training.
The Ban'k's contribution to the ETV scheme has had mixed results.  On the
positive side, the project has helped establish an effective, largely
Ivorian-staffed evaluation unit which is beginning to provide information
needed to improve the effectiveness of ETV and to determine the future
developnent of the scheme. The associated teacher training facility is
being used effectively for in-service training of primary education inspec-
tors and other senior education staff.  On the other hand, problems in
conception and design of the TV production studios causecl serious delays in
construction and the Government produced the initial ETV programs in
temporary facilities. ETV-assisted instruction has only recently become
available to all grades in primary school and it is therefore too early to
make substantive comments on its impact.  However, the system of evaluation
established under the project will give some indication of the effective-
ness of ETV in light of future experience.



- 12 -
1.37      The Second Education Project (Loan 1125-IVC for US$5.0 million,
signed on June 11, 1975) was prepared at a time when only the broad outlines
of the Reform Commission's recommendations (para. 1.29) were known. The
project reinforced the objectives of the first project by constructing two
additional primary teacher training centers, upgrading and equipping four adult
vocational centers, and extending specialist services related to educational
television and the secondary school invento y.  All construction has been
completed and the project schools are funct oning well.  The project also
financed studies to examine the reform proposals for introducing practical
instruction in secondary schools and adapting education to regional needs, and
to identify projects for possible future investment.
1.38      The ministries of education were wary of some of the recommendations
in the study on regional education needs which called for greater decentral-
ization of formal education. However, one of the proposals of the study--
to create informal training opportunities based on community-identified
priorities--has led to a Government request for third project financing of
the community development project called "Promovillage" (para. 2.11).
A second part of the study--an examination of the proposed structure and
programs of the vocational institutes--has led to proposals for third project
financing of four vocational institutes (para. 2.02).
1.39      The proposed third education project would support the Government's
development strategy for education, notably in the areas of vocational edu-
cation, primary teacher training and community development. The principal
objectives of the project are to:
(a) improve the quality of and increase access to primary education
by training primary teachers;
(b) relieve shortages of skilled middle-level manpower for the
modern industrial sector and improve employment opportuni-
ties for graduates of the vocational training system by
establishing vocational training institutes with employer
participation in their planning, financing and management;
(c) provide informal education and training opportunities for
people in disadvantaged rural areas by establishing community
development programs that are adapted to local needs; and
(d) assist educational planning and project preparation.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Summary
2.01      The project would be implemented during the fives-year period 1979-
1984, and would comprise the following components:
(a) Vocational Training
Construction, furniture, equipment, technical assistance
and staff training for four vocational institutess, to train
skilled workers, technicians and foremen in building con-
struction and public works, electrical and mechanical main-
tenance, agro-industry and food processing, and business and
commerce.
(b) Primary Teacher Training
Construction, furniture and equipment for four primary
teacher training colleges.
(c) Community Development
Construction, furniture, equipment, technical assistance, fel-
lowships and operating costs for an experimental community
development program.
(d) Educational Planning and Project Preparation
Equipment and technical assistance for educational planning and
the preparation of future education and training investments.
(e) Project Management
Specialist services, equipment and operating costs for project
implementation.
B.   Vocational Training
2.02      The  project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for four vocational institutes which would offer practical training programs
in (a) building construction and public works; (b) electrical and mechanical
maintenance; (c) agro-industry and food processing; and (d) business and
commerce, and which would address projected manpower shortages in these major
occupational categories (para 1.27). The institutes would be located, respec-
tively, in the major administrative centers of San Pedro, Man, Odienne and
Gagnoa, and would support the Government's emphasis on economic development of
the western region of the Ivory Coast.  With a combined enrollment capacity of
1,900 students, the institutes would have an annual output of about 600
technicians or highly skilled workers capable of becoming foremen or super-
visors after a short time on the job.  The institutes would provide full-time
pre-employment training for lower-secondary school graduates or for students
who have completed the nine-year educational base under the reformed structure
(para. 1.28), as well as skill upgrading courses and advanced technical
training programs for employed work.ers. Approximately 10% of the capacity of
each ins.titute would be available for upgrading and retraining courses.



- 4 -
2.03      Full-time programs would take about three years to complete and
would consist of three distinct training periods: (a) a 10-month period of
basic vocational training that would provide students with general knowledge
and basic skills for employment as trainees or apprentices; (b) an 18-month
period of technical specialization that would include attachments to industry
for about three months to gain practical experience; and (c) a period of
occupational adaptation, varying in duration from 3 to 9 months depending
on the student's ability and adaptability, and consisting of on-the-job
training supervised by employers and staff of the institute.  Students who
complete the three-year program would be awarded a technician diploma that
would lead to employment rather than to automatic access to higher education.
To ensure against the risk that vocational institute graduates automatically
continue their studies at the post-secondary level, the Government would
require holders of the technician diploma to work at least three years in the
field in which they were trained before being eligible for higher-level
studies. Skill upgrading courses and advanced technical training programs for
employed workers would generally be tailor-made and would vary in duration
from one or two weeks to several months depending on job requirements.
2.04      The vocational institutes would be administered by the Ministry
of Technical Education (METFP) in accordance with its general operational
procedures. Advisory committees, composed of representatives of the METFP,
employers and teaching staff, would be established for each of the major
occupational fields taught in the institutes. These committees would (a)
advise on program content and curricula; (b) maintain liaison between the
institutes and employers; (c) assist in arranging practical work assignments
for students; (d) advise on the need for retraining and upgrading of employed
workers; and (e) assist in placing graduates in jobs. The METFP would provide
student guidance and counseling, strengthen its service for placing students
in practical assignments with industry, and provide information on job oppor-
tunities. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that it will: (a) establish, not later than December 31, 1981, advisory
committees for each of the major occupational fields, with adequate repres-
entation of employers and educators, and with terms of reference which would
be reviewed by the Bank from time to time; (b) strengthen, not later than
September 30, 1983, the central service within METFP for placing students in
practical assignments; and (c) appoint, not later than September 30, 1983, at
each vocational institute at least one qualified staff member to provide
students with information on training programs, career opportunities and
employment vacancies.
2.05      Staff for the vocational institutes would be recruited from among
graduates of the recently-opened National Technical Teacher Training Institute
(IPNET) in Abidjan or transferred from other secondary technical and vocational
schools. Since IPNET cannot satisfy the anticipated demand for trained staff
for the vocational institutes before 1986 at the earliest, about 40 technical



- 15 -
instructors and 20 administrative staff would be trained through a project-
financed fellowship program (para. 2.07), and about 30 to 40 additional staff
would be recruited overseas, financed directly by the Government or through
bilateral assistance. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that the staffing plan for the first three years of operation of
each vocational institute financed under the project will be furnished to the
Bank for comment at least twelve months before its opening.
2.06      The project would finance four technical education specialists for
two years each, experienced in the management and organization of vocational
training establishments, to assist the METFP in launching the vocational
institute program. Each specialist: would be posted to one of the vocational
institutes to help the Ivorian director set up the institute, train its staff,
and establish its instructional program.
2.07      The project would finance 60 man-years of fellowships to train or
upgrade Ivorian staff for the vocational institutes. Starting in 1980, an
initial group of about 20 potential institute directors, workshop supervisors
and administrators would undergo a one-year training program of seminars and
practical attachments to prepare them for future managerial and administrative
assignments at the vocational institutes. In 1981 and 1982 about 40 technical
instructors, recruited from existing teaching staff of secondary technical or
vocational schools, would be given a one-year program of technical upgrading
and applied pedagogical training, probably abroad, before being assigned to
instructional positions at one of the vocational institutes. Initial pro-
posals for these fellowship programs were reviewed during negotiations.
2.08      The first graduates of the regular 3-year technician program would
enter the employment market in 1985. Tracer studies of these graduates would
be conducted by the Ministry of Technical Education to evaluate the effective-
ness of employer participation in developing work-oriented training programs
and placing graduates in jobs. Terms of reference for tracer studies and
proposals for evaluating the results would be developed by the evaluation
department of the National Vocational Training Office (ONFP). During nego-
tiations, the Government provided assurances that the terms of reference for
these tracer studies will be submitted to the Bank for comment not later than
June 30, 1984, that the studies wi:Ll be completed not later than June 30, 1986
and that the result will be sent to the Bank for comment.
C.   Primary Teacher Training
2.09      In support of the Government's policy to increase access to primary
education and improve its quality (paras. 1.08, 1.12), the project would
finance construction, furniture and equipment for four primary teacher train-
ing centers (Centres d'Animation et de Formation Pedagogiques - CAFOP) with a
total enrollment capacity of about 580 students and an annual output of about
500 trained primary teachers. The centers would offer one-year teacher train-
ing programs for Grade I teachers (para. 1.16), and upgrading courses for
primary teachers already employed, and provide general pedagogical support



- 16 -
for the primary schools in their respective regions.  Construction of the
four CAFOPs would be completed in 1981, increasing the annual production
of qualified primary teachers from the current figure of 1,900 to about 2,400
in 1982.
2.10      The centers would be located at Odienne', Katiola, Korhogo and
Aboisso.   The location of the centers supports the Government's objective of
regional distribution of primary teacher training centers and takes account of
the location of existing training centers, the distribution of primary enroll-
ments and the projected growth of enrollments in regions where enrollment
rates are currently low. The centers to-be constructed at Odienne' and Korhogo
are expected to raise enrollment rates in the northern region by retaining in
the north teachers who have been trained in that region.
D.   Community Development (Promovillage)
2.11      In support of the Government's development strategy for the rural
areas (para. 1.32), the project would assist the National Office for Rural
Development (ONPR) in establishing a community development program (Promo-
village) for the Seguela area in northwestern Ivory Coast, involving a rural
population of about 300,000 living in 150 principal villages and 700 smaller
communities. The project would-finance:
(a)  22 man-months of consulting services, equipment and operating
costs for (i) an evaluation of the ongoing Promovillage pilot
project in Boundiali (para. 1.33); (ii) an initial survey of
development needs in the Seguela area; (iii) the design of
community development and training programs for that area;
and (iv) a monitoring and evaluation design for the community
development program;
(b)  construction, furniture and equipment for a community develop-
ment training center and a workshop for the maintenance of
project vehicles and equipment, to be constructed in Seguela;
(c)  4 man-years of technical assistance to design and conduct
training programs for community development agents, village
leaders and ONPR field staff and to develop pedagogical
materials for community development work; and
(d) 7 man-years of fellowships to train community development agents.
2.12      The proposed Promovillage program for the Seguela area would be
implemented by ONPR, a specialized agency of the Ministry of Agriculture
(para. 1.32) responsible for coordinating community programs. Promovillage
would assist villagers to identify and satisfy their needs in such fields as
literacy, health care, water supply, sanitation, rural credit and cooperatives.
Drawing on its own resources and on those of other ministries and Government
departments, ONPR would prepare and conduct training programs specifically
designed to respond to these needs. It would also help villagers identify and
implement priority projects with assistance from the responsible technical
ministries notably Public Works, Agriculture and Health.



- 17 -
2.13      The Promovillage componeni: of the project would be implemented in
three phases. The first phase--an evaluation of the ongoing pilot project in
Boundiali--would last about two months and lead to a report on the lessons of
the pilot project, with recommendatLons on how Promovillage should be developed
and eventually expanded to other parts of the country. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances t:hat (a) the terms of reference for this
evaluation are to be acceptable to the Bank; (b) the results of the evaluation
will be furnished to the Bank for comment not later than June 30, 1980; and
(c) these results and the recommendations for follow-up action will be re-
viewed by the Government and the Bank before proceeding to the next phase of
implementation. The second phase--an initial survey of the new project area
near S4gue'la--would last about three months and lead to the detailed design of
community development programs in the area, including training for village
leaders and community development workers. The third phase--implementation of
training and community development programs--would last about two years and
consist of (a) setting up an organizational structure for Promovillage that
would include the construction of a training center for community development
agents and village leaders, and (b) implementing the training programs for
village leaders, development agents and ONPR field staff. Evaluation of this
component would start during project implementation and be a continuous
internal evaluation process, and would be followed by a post-evaluation
leading to recommendations for the possible expansion of Promovillage to other
parts of the country.
E.   Educational Planning and Proje,-t Preparation
2.14      The project would finance 4-1/2 man-years of technical assistance
to help plan investments for education and prepare future education and
training projects. Based on the Government's ongoing study of education
cost (para. 1.26), details of the riequired planning assistance would be
prepared by the Government and reviewed by the Bank by April 1980. The
primary objective would be to achieve a better control of education
recurrent expenditures. The technical assistance for project preparation
would be for priority items identified in the National Development Plan
(1981-85) and would include architectural services for preliminary
architectural designs and cost estimates.
F.   Project Management
2.15      The project would finance equipment, certain operating costs and
13-1/2 man-years of specialist services to reinforce the Ivorian staff of the
existing Project Unit (para. 4.02). This would include a project manager to
assist the Ivorian director with day-to-day management and financial control
of the project, an architect and a civil works adviser for control of archi-
tectural design and construction supervision, and an equipment engineer to
coordinate equipment procurement. rhese technical specialists would be
assisted by Ivorian counterparts who would assume full responsibility for
project implementation after a period of training on the job. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from the Government that qualified Ivorian
counterparts to the project manager, the civil works adviser and the equipment
engineer will be appointed not later than June 30, 1981.



- 18 -
III. COST OF THE PROJECT AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01       The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated aL US$63.0 million.
The total project cost, including taxes of US$21.9 million, is estimated at
US$84.9 million with a foreign exchange component of US$43.5 million. The
breakdown of cost by project component is detailed in Annex 6 and summarized
below.
--CFAF (million)---  ---US$ (million)--- % of Base
Project Item                Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total    Cost
Vocational Training         5,186  5,379  10,565  23.5   24.5  48.0          76.4
Primary Teacher Training  1,132  1,021   2,153   5.2    4.6   9.8            15.6
Community Development          158    264      422   0.7    1.2   1.9         3.0
Educational Planning
and Project Preparation        64    136      200   0.3    0.6   0.9         1.5
Project Management             186    303      489   0.8    1.4   2.2         3.5
Base Cost                   6,726  7,103  13,829  30.5   32.3  62.8    100.0
Physical Contin-
gencies (9%)                 637    637   1,274   2.9    2.9   5.8
Expected Price
Increases (24%)            1,753  1,825   3,578   8.0    8.3  16.3
Total Contingencies         2,390  2,462   4,852  10.9   11.2  22.1
Total Project Cost          9,116  9,565  18,681  41.4   43.5  84.9
Estimated Taxes             4,825    -       4,825  21.9       -   21.9
Net-of-tax Project Cost   4,291  9,565  13,856  19.5   43.5  63.0



- 19 -
3.02      Estimated project costs by category of expenditure are shown below.
Category of           --CFAF (million)---  ---US$ (million)--- % of Base  Taxes in
Expenditure           Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total    Cost          Total
(US$ million)
Civil Works           5,186  4,243  9,429   23.6   19.3  42.9         68.3       11.2
Architectural Fees       224    336    560    1.0    1.5   2.5         4.0        0.5
Furniture               228    229    457    1.0    1.1   2.1          3.3        0.5
Equipment                731  1,554  2,285    3.3    7.1  10.4        16.6        2.9
Specialist Services    215    580    795    1.0    2.6   3.6           5.7        0.8
Fellowships              40    108    148    0.1    0.5   0.6          1.0        0.2
Administration           102     53    155    0.5    0.2   0.7         1.1        0.2
Base Cost             6,726  7,103 13,829   30.5   32.3  62.8    100.0           16.3
Physical Contin-
gencies (9%)           637    637  1,274    2.9    2.9   5.8                     1.5
Expected Price
Increases (24%)      1,753  1,825  3,578    8.0    8.3  16.3                     4.1
Total Contingencies  2,390  2,462  4,852   10.9   11.2  22.1                      5.6
Total Project Cost   9,116  9,565 18,681   41.4   43.5  84.9                     21.9
3.03      The cost estimates for civil works are for June 1979 and are based
on unit costs of school buildings constructed under previous education pro-
jects, updated to account for inflation, and on an analysis of construction
contracts for similar buildings in Ivory Coast awarded during 1978. The
average cost of construction for project-financed buildings is estimated at
US$500 per square meter and is considered reasonable taking into account the
general price and wage structure int the Ivory Coast. One reason for the
relatively high unit construction cost is that all project institutions are to
be built up-country, where the costs of transporting materials and equipment,
and maintaining construction persormel add from 5% to 50% to the unit con-
struction costs in Abidjan. The net-of-tax cost of technical assistance,
based on recent recruitment experience in other Bank projects in the Ivory
Coast, is estimated at US$90,000 per man-year, of which about US$75,000 would
be for salaries, allowances and overhead, and about US$15,000 for administra-
tive costs, transportation and housing.



- 20 -
3.04      The project costs include physical contingencies of 10% of the
base cost for civil works, architectural fees, furniture and equipment. The
overall allowance for price escalation is about 24% of base cost plus
physical contingencies, and is calculated on the basis of the following
annual price increases over the project implementation period: for the
local curre.icy component of civil works and architectural fees, 16% in
1979, 12% in 1980 and 10% thereafter; for the foreign exchange component of
civil works and architectural fees, 8% in 1979 and 7% thereafter; for
furniture and equipment, 10% in 1979, 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7% there-
after; and 8% for technical assistance, fellowships and administrative
expenses (Annex 7).
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$43.5 million repres-
ents 51% of the total project cost of US$84.9 million. It was calculated on
the basis of the following percentages: civil works, 45%; architectural fees,
60%; furniture, 50%; equipment, 68%; specialist services and fellowships, 73%;
and administration, 34%. Taxes are estimated at US$21.9 million and represent
26% of the total project cost. They are made up of (a) import duties of up to
40% on construction materials, up to 35% on furniture and up to 50% on equip-
ment; (b) a value-added tax of 10.5% to 33.5%; (c) income taxes of about 23% on
technical assistance salaries; (d) a 40% tax on business profits; and (e)
taxes on wages.
Financing Plan
3.06      The African Development Bank (AfDB) has agreed to cofinance
the project in two phases up to a maximum of 16 million units of account
(UC), equal to approximately US$19.8 million, to finance part of the costs
for the vocational institutes. The proposed financing plan, presented in
detail in Annex 8, was finalized during negotiations and would be as
follows:
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Total                               Taxes incl. in
Project Component               Cost    IBRD    AfDB   Government   Govt. share
Vocational Training             48.0    10.5    14.1         23.4          12.5
Primary Teacher Training         9.8      4.7      -          5.1           2.5
Community Development            1.9     1.2       -          0.7           0.5
Educational Planning
and Project Preparation         0.9     0.6       -          0.3           0.2
Project Management               2.2     1.2       -          1.0           0.6
Base Cost                     62.8    18.2    14.1         30.5          16.3
Physical Contingencies         5.8     1.5      1.4         2.9           1.5
Price Escalation              16.3     4.3      4.0         8.0           4.1
Total Contingencies           22.1     5.8      5.4        10.9           5.6
Total Project Cost            84.9    24.0    19.5         41.4          21.9



- 21 -
3.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$24.0 million would finance the following
items:
(a)  Vocational Training:  civil works for the vocatLonal
institutes at Man and Gagnoa, and architectural fees,
specialist services and fellowships for the vocational
institutes at Man, Gagnoa, San Pedro and Odiennt -
total US$10.5 million.
(b) Primary Teacher Training: civil works, architectural fees,
furniture and equipment for primary teacher training centers
at Odienne, Katiola, Korhogo and Aboisso - total US$4.7 million.
(c) Community Development: civil works, architectural fees,
furniture, equipment, specialist services and fellowships
for a community development program in Seguela - total US$1.2
million.
(d) Educational Planning and Project Preparation: specialist services
and equipment for educational planning and the preparation of an
education/training project - total US$0.6 million.
(e) Project Management: equipment and specialist services
- total US$1.2 million.
(f) Contingencies: physical contingencies and price escalation -
total US$5.8 million.
As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan, the Government should
ensure that all conditions necessary for initial disbursement under the first
AfDB loan, with the exception of the effectiveness of the Bank loan, have been
satisfied.
3.08      The proposed AfDB Loan of US$19.5 million would finance the follow-
ing items: (a) civil works for two vocational institutes at San Pedro and
Odienne' - US$7.1 million; (b) furniture and equipment for all four vocational
institutes - US$7.0 million; and (c) physical contingencies and price escala-
tion - US$5.4 million. The AfDB loan would become available in two phases.
The first AfDB loan of US$9.9 milliLon, or 8 million units of account (UC), has
been approved and would become effective on the date of effectiveness of the
Bank loan. It would finance (a) ciLvil works, furniture and equipment for the
vocational institute at San Pedro, and (b) equipment for the vocational
institutes at Man and Gagnoa. The second AfDB Loan of US$9.6 million (approxi-
mately 7.8 million UC) is expected to become available in FY81 and would
finance (a) civil works, furniture and equipment for the vocational institute
at Odienne'; (b) additional equipment for the vocational institute at Man; and
(c) furniture for the vocational institutes at Man and Gagnoa.  During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from the Government that (a) it will take all
necessary steps to contract with the AfDB the second loan of US$9.6 million;
and (b) in the event the second Af]DB loan agreement does not become effective
by December 31, 1980, the Governmlent will provide funds, or arrange to provide
funds from other sources on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.



- 22 -
3.09      Total external financing would cover 100% of the foreign exchange
cost, or US$43.5 million, representing 51% of the total project cost of
US$84.9 million, or 69% of the net-of-tax project cost of US$63.0 million.
The Government would finance the remaining US$41.4 million, representing 49%
of the total project cost, including taxes of US$21.9 million.
Project Recurrent Cost
3.10      In 1983/84, when the project-assisted institutions are expected to
become fully operational, the Government's annual recurrent expenditures would
increase by about US$9.0 million in 1978 constant prices (Annex 9). The Min-
istries of Primary Education (for the primary teacher training centers) and
Technical Education (for the vocational institutes) would absorb US$7.9 mil-
lion of this incremental recurrent cost, representing about 1.5% of the
estimated recurrent education budget of US$532 million in 1983. The remain-
ing US$1.1 million of the incremental recurrent cost, generated by the
community development program, would be absorbed by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and would represent an increase of 1.9% of its estimated 1983 recurrent
budget of US$58.6 million. About 60% of the combined increase of US$9.0 mil-
lion would be for staff salaries and 40% for student boarding and other
operating expenditures.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      Educational specifications for all project institutions were pre-
pared prior to project appraisal. Locally established architects have
been appointed to prepare architectural designs, under the supervision of
the Project Unit and the Ministry of Public Works. Sketch designs for most
project institutions were approved prior to negotiations. Preparation of
final architectural drawings and bidding documents for the major project
components would continue in the period between negotiations and loan effec-
tiveness. For this purpose, the project would provide retroactive financing
of US$500,000 for architectural consultants, Project Unit staff and office
equipment. Construction of buildings and installation of furniture and
equipment would be completed by October 1981 for the primary teacher training
centers and by October 1982 for the vocational institutes (Annex 10). The
first primary teachers would be produced in 1982 and the first graduates of
the vocational institutes would emerge in 1985. Provision of specialist
services and fellowships would continue until June 1984, when the project is
expected to be completed. The closing date would be June 30, 1985, to allow
for all accounts to be closed.
Project Unit
4.02      The Project Unit established within the Ministry of National Educa-
tion (MEN), which has been responsible for implementation of the First and



- 23 -
Second Education Projects, would administer the proposed third education
project. The Project Unit has formal departmental status within the Ministry
and is headed by a senior official, who is also Director of Planning and
Investments of the MEN. He is assisted by a deputy director who is also
assistant director for school construction within the Department of Planning.
Since the Project Unit will be responsible for all furniture and equipment
procurement and, together with the Ministry of Public Works, for the super-
vision of architectural consultants and civil works implementation (tasks
contracted to a management consulting firm under the first two projects),
its full-time staff would be expanded to include a project manager for
4-1/2 years, an architect for 1-1/2 years, a civil works adviser for 3-1/2 years
and an equipment engineer for 3 years (Annex 11). The Ministries of Primary
Education, Technical Education and Agriculture have each designated a perma-
nent representative responsible for liaison with the Project Unit and coordi-
nation within their ministries for their respective project institutions.
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.03      The project would finance about 32 man-years of specialist
services to (a) help establish the vocational institutes (para. 2.06); (b)
assist in setting up the community dLevelopment program (para. 2.11); (c)
assist with educational planning and the preparation of an education/
training project (para. 2.14); and (d) reinforce the Project Unit (para.
2.15). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
of specialists financed under the project are to be acceptable to the
Bank.
4.04      The project would provide 67 man-years of fellowships for the
training of Ivorian staff as instructors and administrators (para. 2.07) and
community development agents (para. 2.11). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it will (a) award fellowships not later
than December 31, 1981, to suitably qualified persons for training programs
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) require the fellowship holders to serve at
least three years in the positions for which they were trained, following the
completion of the training.
Sites
4.05      Suitable sites have been selected and agreed for all project-assisted
institutions. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it
will acquire legal title to all sites according to a schedule agreed during
negotiations.
Procurement
4.06      Civil works contracts valued at US$36.6 million, and furniture and
equipment contracts valued at US$2.2 million, financed in part by the Bank
loan, would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Civil works for thLe community develop-
ment component, valued at US$0.6 mi:Llion, would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local



- 24 -
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Packages of furniture and equipment
estimated to cost between US$10,000 and US$50,000 each, or not suitable
for international competitive bidding, would be procured in accordance with
local competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Equipment and furniture
estimated to cost less than US$10,000 would be procured through negotiated
purchase on the basis of quotations from at least three reliable suppliers or
manufacturers. The aggregate value of such items is estimated not to exceed
US$1.0 million. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports
or the currently applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
lower. Procurement of civil works valued at US$21.5 million and furniture and
equipment valued at US$13.6 million, that would be financed with funds from
the African Development Bank (para. 3.06), would be in accordance with AfDB
guidelines and procedures. Architectural services estimated at US$3.2 mil-
lion, specialists services estimated at US$4.5 million and fellowships esti-
mated at US$0.8 million would be procured in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The remaining project costs of US$0.9 million,
covering administrative expenses, would be disbursed following established
Government procedures.
Disbursements
4.07      The funds from the Bank loan account would be disbursed against the
project items listed in para. 3.07, as follows:
(a) 45% of total expenditures for civil works - US$13.8 million;
(b) 69% of total expenditures for architectural services - US$1.7
million;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported furniture
or 50% of total expenditures for locally procured furniture - US$0.3
million;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
or 68% of total expenditures for locally procured equipment -
US$1.2 million;
(e) 73% of total expenditures for specialist services - US$2.9
million; and
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships - US$0.6 million.
US$3.5 million of the proposed loan would be unallocated. All disbursements
from the loan account would be fully documented.
Accounts and Audits
4.08      The Project Unit would establish and maintain the necessary accounts
and records for the project, in accordance with established Government finan-
cial and accounting procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such records would
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment within six months after the
close of each fiscal year.



- 25 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The project would increase the supply of trained primary teachers
and of middle-level manpower for the modern industrial sector, improve the
standard of living in selected rural areas, and plan for the expansion of
agricultural education. Specifically, the project would provide the following
benefits:
(a) Production of about 600 skilled industrial and commercial
technicians per year from programs developed and conducted
with employer participation;
(b) Improvement in the access to primary education by increasing
the number of trained primary teachers by about 500 per year
and helping the Government to achieve universal primary
education by 1990; and
(c)  Improvement in the standard of living of the rural population
in the Seguela area by providing villagers with opportunities for
education and training and access to community development services.
5.02      The community development program should be regarded as experi-
mental and therefore faces many of the risks inherent in the design of inno-
vative projects.  These risks include insufficient collaboration between
government agencies, parastatal organizations and community leaders at the
regional and village levels, and delays in organizing and implementing field
operations. The Government has taken some measures to promote inter-agency
collaboration by locating ONPR within the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 2.12)
and appointing key Ivorian staff in ONPR.  To minimize organizational and
management problems related to field operations and to test the replicability
of this particular type of community development action, ONPR would carry
out an evaluation of the ongoing community development project in Boundiali
(para. 2.13) and apply lessons learned from this pilot project to the detailed
design of the proposed program for the Segugla area.
5.03      A risk confronting the vocational training component would be a
shortage of qualified technical teaching staff. To limit the risk of future
staffing problems, the project would finance technical assistance (para. 2.06)
and fellowships for staff training (para. 2.07). In addition, the Government
has been encouraged to seek additional assistance from bilateral sources to
cover staffing needs during the initial years of operation of the vocational
institutes. Proposals to involve employers in the planning, operation and
financing of these institutes (para. 2.04) are considered realistic in view
of the experience gained in the First Education Project (para. 1.35), where
employer participation proved effective.



26 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a)  advisory committees for each of the major occupatonal
fields taught in the vocational institutes, with adequate
representation of employers and educators, will be estab-
lished not later than December 31, 1981 (para. 2.04);
(b) it will strengthen, not later than September 30, 1983,
the central service within METFP for placing students of
vocational institutes in practical assignments (para. 2.04);
(c) at least one qualified staff member will be appointed at
each vocational institute, not later than September 30,
1983, to provide students with information on training
programs, career opportunities and employment vacancies
(para. 2.04);
(d) the staffing plan for the first three years of operation of
each vocational institute financed under the project will be
furnished to the Bank for comment at least twelve months before
its opening (para. 2.05);
(e) the terms of reference for tracer studies to evaluate the
effectiveness of employer participation in developing work-
oriented training programs and placing graduates in jobs
will be submitted to the Bank for comment not later than
June 30, 1984, the studies will be completed not later
than June 30, 1986, and their results forwarded to the Bank
for comment (para. 2.08);
(f) the terms of reference for the evaluation of the Promo-
village pilot project in Boundiali are to be acceptable to
the Bank; the results of the evaluation will be furnished to the
Bank for comment not later than June 30, 1980; these results and
the recommendations for follow-up action will be reviewed by the
Government and the Bank before proceeding with the design and
implementation of the Se'guela community development program (para.
2.13);
(g) the conclusions and recommendations of the ongoing study of
education costs will be taken into account in the preparation
of the 1981-85 National Development Plan (para. 2.14);
(h) qualified Ivorian counterparts will be appointed to the
various specialists of the Project Unit, including the project
manager, the civil works adviser and the equipment
engineer, not later than June 30, 1981 (para. 2.15);



- 27 -
(i) all necessary steps will be taken to contract with the AfDB
the second loan of US$9.6 million; if the second AfDB loan
agreement does not become effective by December 31, 1980, the
Government will provide funds, or arrange for financing from
other sources on terms and conditions acceptablea to the Bank
(para. 3.08);
(j)  the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment of specialists financed under the project
are to be acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.03);
(k) fellowships will be awarded not later than December 31, 1981, to
suitably qualified persons for training programs acceptable to the
Bank, and the fellowship-.holders will be required to serve at least
three years in the positions for which they were trained (para.
4.04); and
(1)  legal title to all construction sites will be obtained according
to a schedule agreed during negotiations (para. 4.05).
6.02      As a condition of effectiLveness of the Bank loan, the Government
should ensure that all conditions necessary for initial disbursement under
the first AfDB loan have been satisfied (para. 3.07).
6.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$24.0 million to the Republic
of the Ivory Coast.



$  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
g   Wm $0-. 4..    <>Zz  I i^>mn>>>rm    i 
* g  ;o   - -                                                                 - - - -
[>    *'    41  n  [43                 C)   ^<                                          ; 3  &      ZI D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    O
\  XO  i1                          1                                                 -          T"O
;    3   m   m   z   r  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  iiDDtL   
D m n |    D   <   ]   t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  m m ~~I  ir
w    ____  _  _ _   _   rJ     _____           __ L _  ___  ____  JL   _J _  _                    _  _  _  1      .___ _ 



29 -                                                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
IVORY COAST - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/CQTE D'IVQIRE - TROISIEm PROJET EDUCATION
Comgarative Education Indicators/Etude comparative sur les indicateurs de la
situation de 1'enseigneient .dans les diff6rents    pays
------------------------------------------------------------ Acigugu-219 --- 19,79 --------------------------------------------------
GN       % GNP    7 TCTAL ',  OF PUBLIC                                        PRI    AV.PRI .                             SEC
CApIT/A  OEVOTED PUeLIC    EDUCATION              LITER-    PRI    COMPLE-  STU-  SCH.TEACH PROGRESS-  SEC    STU-  -IGHER
AT      TOUEDU       ECP     pECUPPENT        AC y       ENROLL TION         D:NTS SALARYCIN [ON RATE   ENROLL DENTS ENROLL
MARKET   IP BLII: (EV TED EXP ALLO CAT Co    RATE  RATIO  RATE FOR pR    RELATI N    FRO MPQI  RATIO   PER    RATIO
POP.  PQI CeS  Exp             Ta             TO:        .('/. OF    NET    PRI.SCH. TEA CH   TO GNR/  TO SEC.               NET    TEACH- GROSS.
,R MILLS.: (USS)- ONLY)             Eou    PRI. SEC  HI  ADULTS)  (/.)   C,CLEf7.) ER                  CAPITA         M                   ER       1%)
(1)       (2)    '  (3)        (4)                         (6)       (7)        (a)       (9)       (10)        (11)        (121     (i3    (14)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA           74    7 SG ;,62OG         S.3Y               24Y  571Y   i5v    99         98         930       2:0        2.00        99D        510      iSO    16.85Y
CANA A            75     2a      .135        7.3       .7      30    3      26      98       99         97         1         2.0         99        90        18      1600
0                                                :.SEY
G:RMANY F.PEP 75  6:   6 670               5.0    102        3iEY 64-- 26EY  99            go         99        23EY       ...         99Y        8 41     22C    20.26Y
11pA              , II         4:450        4.3E   21). 7E    40UY 37UY             99       990        99C       25         2.019       99C       95XI    20C    24.69Y
N THNERLANDS    7:   13'75,425               9.4    22.40    21    39    I;Uy                95         95         29        2.0         97         so       20      12.00
E                                                                          2       99
NEWZEALAND    13         3,IG4.2GOG          52                39    24    29       99       gg         99        26         ...         99        67        19      24.00
0      A         7                         4                                99         Is        1.5         99        62         I      11.00
NORWAY            76     4' a.0 3              2    44        54    2      15      99       99                                            E                 I
SWEDEN            75    S12a,150            811       40       23    29    12       99       :9         99.       ;6         ...         907       :85C      3      30.OOC
UT                75   56,0   3.780          7.,    I39        26    41     1       99                              4        2.0                              7      2I.OOX
5 4    15a    ...    72                          9                   22                               93                24.00
76 214,6   7,950                                      -- 2:      99E      11"        99                               99                  19
EUROPE
GREECE            76    9 12.590             2 6    PIA        37    26    21       868      99         82D       31        2.0          70E       so        27      15.00
IRELANO                  3.IG 2.62OG          .6    :3 9D    43Y  411Y   IAY    98          iOSXY       99A       35                     95A       65xy    19        15 47Y
PORTUGAL          77    9.7   t.850          3        54       41   2       15      7OG        82       60-        19       2.0          75-       35        12       5.00
74                        5 1
ROMANIA           75 21.2G ;.240             4 0      64       36    19    13       98        loix                21        ...          ge        49        22      10 00
SPAIN             74   35.8    .99OG         2,4B   15 2A    49Y  22Y   i5'    94A    i15AY                       35A       ...          ...       7axy    30        17 68Y
ALGIPTA                 17.3   1,1110H      74    Ir4.3FY   34    26D   200    371           86XY       s        38         4,0         55        3i        2?       6 00
BENN              74    3.2G       8OG       72N   3,OY    47D   23                 IID      44         Qs       53Y       25 Ca        438        tiyy    398       0.74Y
BOTSWANA          7:     08       540        60    22 ')    52    23    4          35       SoX         0        31         S.C         48         14       22       2.00
BURUNOI           -      4I       130H       27    2 IR    46R   33r   2Q    25.           23X        4S        32         g. 0,       22          3x      IS       0 5
7                            7              33    43      2               60         45         52       4.0          20          90      24       0.90cy
A                                                  - 0      56B   19                       79 xy      5         69y                               axy    2              IY
C     R.          74     1SF    22OF         300   1,  D                a .                             2                                                      BY    0.2
CAMEROON           6     7.       314        3      21.5
-     4          20       30    10 0        78    22              15       29XBY                65        S.                      2x      3        0.0IBY
CHAO               5       0      I                                                                     30           By    I  O                        By    0
CONGO(S)          74     1.3F     5ioF      6.0    i9.3        40    32    21       507    i33X         63        63         6.0         4S        33X       22       340
'GYPT             76   38 . 2     3iO       5.9N    -          30    32    25       4 4      76         80        31         ...         79        45        20       12.00
ET.IoPIA          77 29'o         ioo       2.4    12 5        44    31    14       10       26                   so                     63         a       3s
GABON             74    0 5F 2.54OF          5.00   20.6D    2So            110    - -    IOOY          25C       46C        5.0         18A       31.       21C      0 2gy
GAISIA           76    0.5       170        3.3    11.5       46    2:0     6      10       27         90        33        ...          92         13      25
GHANA             74    9 9F    59OF                 19 7y    43Y  22Y  20YO                 GOXY       626       30Y                    14:       35xf    IGCY    i.09Y
GUINEA            76    4.7       ISOF      4.3NO              30    3I 30                   30A        64        45        i2.CtF        a          I3x      26       4.0-0
IVORYCOAST    76    7 0           6i0       6 8    23 1        33    ;6    :3        9&      So          6,       43         7.C        47         17-Y    26         164Y
I<ENYA            76 13 8         2'O        5.9    26 0       67      3     0      AO       807        :0        34         6.C:        30         16       27         0
LESOTHO           Is    i.2       ieo       t 2. Op   230     49           20      40                  so        52         7. ON       at         0       26          00
-5    1.5                 2.4    13 2       27                                                                                   2       26          10ay
0                     8        ;10                                                                                            I                                     1 70
L113ERIA                                                              1:    20      73                            35         2.0
MA AGASCAP        77       0       40        4.0    24 0       53    28      9      5        9ox        33        44         G.C         38         iAx      23       0
MAL 1             7 7    5 .      I40        2. 2                     I 7   ; 2     20                  21        6i         5 - C,       9                  21          47
MALAIW            75    5.7F       9OF       4.2M   33.OF    45F   37F I8F    IOF            22XF                 48F      9.5F          5OF        ex      21
..UR;TANIA        7,31   I3F    320F         4..17Y   20.1),    ...  _         .    IOA      17XY                 22A                                3x,    24A
MAUR TIUS         7      0. 9L    6so        4 .     121       50    26      6      aoc      94         99        24         4.!          90       45       32        1.50
MOP0CCo            6 12           52         ' -3    t -3.2    39R   4:R   13R    28         is-ixy     33.       40         ...         33         1 7 X.    22      4 00
NIGERIA           Y 4 7: OF    34OF         4.10Y 24 2oy   2 3Y   I Y42Y                     49X                  340Y       ...         ...        ioxy    20CY    0.4SY
PWANDA            -3    4.iF    IOOF        3 2C   29 00    ...                     23       52                   51         ...         ...        2        13       0 23cy
5       13 0              4            10       32                   49        10.0         20         10       21
0
SIERRA LEONE   73        3OF    20OF        3.4    23 4        31   36    30        1S?      34X        405       32         4.CE       6:         13X      21        0.53BY
SENEGAL                  5.2      420          0    2          46    3      20
SOM ALIA          78     36       I10       5.0    2.0        69    361   21       rIo?     39X        a         27        12.C:       7           5        14       0.I0
SUDAN             -'S  15.9       290       4.5       g 9      48    3      16      20       34         74        33         3.8         33        14       24         1.24
_1                             X        9                     C
SWAZILAND         78     03       560       6  IH   12.2       3     33    23       65       92         4         37         4.CIH       66        32X      20         2.OOX
TANZANIA          76 Is.,         180       6.6    174         42    21     12      66       78X        aI        49         3.1         10         4-       Is      C) 34
TOGO              7 7    2A       300         -5    265        30    28    21       1 a      74         AO        se         S. cl      52           -      AA        2 00
TUNISIA           73     57G    SOOG        : 3    23A         37    43    la       55       72        Si         41         6.0        31         IA       21        3.00
,JP!NOA           75     16       230         .4    IS7                                                 ...       34EY       ...         i4A        GXCv  21A         0.56Y
UG                      1                    3  D,        Dv  34 Ey 40EY 22EV  25A           53XY
ER VOLTA    11       5        Ii'll     3-4    219         31    16    32        5C      13         23        5i       24. C)        1 9        2       25        i.0
'6 ,5           I4          0    22 1)    49    26    25          15      86X        44        42X        2.(         41         13X      27       I.OOX
ZAMBIA            Is     SI       440       6.8    IC9         54    22     22      29       97X        90        49        7.c        21         16       23          50
ZAIRE
CENTRAL AMERECI AND TIE  CARIBBEAN
BARBADOS          -6    0.2   i.620         a  I   22.1        43    31    16       99      106X        99        21         3.0        99         94X       17
------------------------------
COSTA Ql-                2 0       60       5 . 2a   22.12    5 78   258   12E    89B    109xy          658       298        3.08       588        52y"    258    17 i5y
CU:A          'F 7;      9.S9.500           a 0    11.0               .    -        96       98         98        22         2.7        9s         65        1      15 00
39        2. 2        4i        23        21       7 00
Do INIC.N R    7         4 SG    79OG        3.0    139       42    24    22       51       so         17        54         3.00        63         14      24        7.00
EL SALVADOR              4 1      570       4.0    272         64      8    27      62       88X        32
GUATEMALA         -3    6.2G    70OG         ;.9    160        55    23    ;4       47       64         26        35         3-0        69          8       2s        A 09Y
m                 -                                                                                                                                 4                  0 7
AITI             '6    4.7       200         .0     a0        61   21       I      20B      25F        13        5su       3.(         62
HONDURAS          Is    2.9G  '.40OG         4.2G    88G    62G   ISG   19G    53           78         30        35         3. 0        :8         II       1 7      400
jA MAICA          7r     21       070       11 9      61       37    3 3    2 2     86E      9 I        -5 2      39         4. 5         4        64       2 5       7Ss
PAEXico           75     9      I.050       :I.IDo  I20DO   51Y  26Y 1 2,    76             "2"         31        46         3 -        63         35A,    23A        897E I
NICARAGUA         -4     23G    'OOG         2 . 5    142      6t    13    13       57       65         2        37         2           93         I       24          00
I              --                                  AI       As                                                 30         3           49        6        24
TIZ NIDAO 9 T   ''       t12.Ias            45                       32    20       95       98        9                                            2
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA           -15      9      3j5F      5 C    17 =1                            38       178        290       24         SF                     .8       191)
BRAZI L           -5 'I  0,    30OG          5 0     2ARY  42E   2 '-      IE  54A                              27C'                             26G       I S,- Y    6 oce
1.              P,                          5,               !6G
'HILE             -13  10 3G    05OG         3 2      25       23Y   10I                      9, Y                35V        ...                   481,              16 550
COLOM8 IA         -4  2 43G    65OG         3 . 3C' 21 Z: Y  440Y 2 20,            -3      IC51, e     20        33Y        40         90         26xy    14A       6 6-Y
ECUAOOR           -5     731,   7COG        3 7(   2- -C                            69      102y,                 38C                              39"      14C
GUYANA.,          -4     0SF    51OF        5.9N   14                 5    1A      3A      92,        39        33         6.2         19        GI      24        1.00
PARAGU            -4     26G    5OG         1.8    11         5       3    .2      9        92         26        30         1 a        115        1        12       5 00
PERLI             -5   Ir OG    84OG         42cy 21 -DI   O  22Y   '51   -12             III,,       '38       390Y       3 O         -1        48XY    23DY   14 41
IJRUGUAe          75     28G ;.37OG          2 5    153        46    34    20       94       93X                  24                     83                  'O
JENEZUELA         73   12 3G    54OG        4.6    i93         300   280   5,:   7-A        el                   33        2.1                    33               12 63Cf



-30 -                                                    ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
GNP/   %GNO   I 'OTAL  C:   P PUBLIC                                   'PRI.  AV.PRI.                          SEC
*   CAPITA: DEVOTED DUEL IC    EDUCATION         LITER-   P CZI.   COMPLE- :STU- iSCH.TFAC7H:PRCGRESS-.  SEC   : STU-  HI GHER:
,AT: TO EOU.   E'P          R      ECJRRENT    :ACY  ~ENROLL TION      'OENTS:SALARY IN:ION RZATE  ENRClLL.DENTS:ENPOLL:
: MARKET: (PUBLIC OEVOTED.SXP ALLOCATED:  RATE  RATTO  DATE FOR:PER   RELATION  ~FROM PRI  RATIO  PER    RATIO
POP.  PRICES:  EAPR.        TO           TO        :17. OF  : NET   PPR>.SCH. TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.           NET    TEACH- GROSS:
,R:MILLS.   (USS): ONLY)        EC'-'  PR!  SEC . HI .ADUJLTS)   (V       CYCLE(%) ER        CAPITA       M%        I)      ER      li ".)
ASTA ANO OCEANIA
AFOHANISTAN    77M 14.3        (8OG     1.8    11.6    47   19   IS    12           29A      69       37        3.0G        62       Bax     7       i.00
BANGLADESH      73  80.4G       9OG     (.2   20.2       44',  22Y  214    230      BR       ..       480       . . .   .           23A,D   28
.'-INAITAIWANI 73  16.30 t,050G         3.2    14.0    28   41   22    82          98C       94       40       14.0       84        RIC     26     20.OOC
(NOIA           75 620.4G    140G       2,SVY ..   . .. ....    298                RxyY      ...      43A       . . .     ..        29AY    20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA       76 130.9G   28OG        3.0    (1.0    26   32   Is    6DB         79E7.    43E       30E       2.0       52E       19EX    14E    2.00
IRAN            '"3  33.6G 2.060G       3.3    i2,6    SOB   188  128   s0         77        74A      32        5.08      BOA       24      32      4.32CY
IRAQ             5  "Sl. 5G I1,390G    6. 7C   I 6. 308. .......   26C             B3xy      ...      22        . . .     ..        35XY   2RC      8.47Y
jOPDAN          77   2.3      997       4.5K   '".IK   258  508    OR   70         97X       8t       32        2-0       91        RB      22     (0.60
KCOREA          B8  37.0   1.242        2.8    17.5     35   29   36       93      102X      94       49        2.9       97        60      45      78.00
LEBANON         72   3.20 1.070G    3.5    18.0    39   40   70    68              86       65        19       2.0        63       26U      25     23.00
MALAYSIA        786  12.8     880       6.7   26.0      42   34    is    ROC        98       93       32        3.7       78        48      28       3.00
NEPAL           76  12.RF    IIOF       1.1    10.0    29   20   41         19      59       28       31        2.3       64        14      24       0.8
OMAN            72   O.BF 2.300F        1.7N   3.8      96      -   -      20       24X      99       27F       7.0                 0.4X. 0.4..
PAKISTAN        75  71.3G    1800       1.6   16.2      45   25   18       21      47X       50       39        2.0       -..       17X     18      6.00
PAPUA NOG.      75   2.8G   4500        5.6    18.1    38    16   24       32      577       73P      31       11.0       90        72X?   24       0.907
PHILIPPINES    74  43.2G   4200         2.5    14.9    73    Is   12    87         1045      . ..     34       15.0        . .      46X     . ..   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.30 2.5800        2. 7Y   9 .2 4    39Y  39Y  17Y   788    IOSSY       72A      31Y       . ..      99A       44AY    24      7 . 8Y
SYRIA           75   7.6G   8300        3.8'    6.9     39   25   26       53      89        70       35        2.0       92        45      21      72.00
THAILAND        77  44.7      410       4.OV  20.0      55   30   15    84F        83        30       35        5.OU      70        28      25      3.00
TURKEY          73  40.9G 1.010G        5_6CY 20.6CY ... .. .....                   BSY      . ..     34Y       . . .     ..        2dY     270Y   5.83Y
YEMEN           73   5.4G   3000        0.5     4.0    A5P  2iP  23P    10         155       18       36       5.0        75         25     19      0.O5BY
YEMEN P.0.R.  76    1.7    280          6.6             57   28    B    20         895       48       30        5.0       94        214     24      0.70
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                    95     92      88   87   86       89      96        76       97          71      79        65      93       86
RANGE:                              (0.5-  13.8-  121- 18-  (2-   (5            (13      (13-    (18         (1.5-   (8-        ).4-   (9-        (.01"
12.0 1 26.01    96 1 72)  50)   99)         133A)   99 1       69 1     25.0 )   99)        95   1  451    30.1)
OUARTILES UPPER :5.9   2'.2                           49   38   22       83      98       86        42          6       91       48       25     11.0
MEDIAN:                  4.2    (6. 0     42   26   18    53         82        63       34          4       68        24      22      3.4
LOWER :                  3.0    12.4      33   21   13    23         56        32       29          2       41        1t     iB       1.0
SYMBOLS.. . DTUM UNAVAILABLE                   A-1970 OR BEFORE            M=CURRENT PRICES                         SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 5=7971                           N-GDP---
I  OUESTIONABLE                     C.1972                      P-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUM(4:I AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
I NCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0.=973                          QOCENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                           OR 1880 MISSIONS
COMBIINED WITH PRIMARY           Evlg"4                      R-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 14 1880 MISSIONS
..UNDER REVIEW                      F-1975                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AFJO/OR UNESCO
0=1976                      T-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATISTICAL
H-1977                      U=PUBLIC ONLY                                                7 EAReoow
K-1978                      V.INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X-INCLUOING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
-EVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
I,REAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOViE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
YE'AAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
((('EDUCATIOIN" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
121"PRIMAR' EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATrON AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONOARZY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GElIERAL. TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERAC, RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRZY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRZIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORMA DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4) PUFLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3.4 AND 81 REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND OUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES:
fIS ENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7. 12 AND 14) RZEFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TINE
IN THE ADPPOPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTPIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURAC' OF BASIC DATA) I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENJTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE 1I''71E1 OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RA7ICS~



IVORY COAST
EDUCATION PYRAMID, 1977/1978
COTE D'IVOIRE
PYRAMIDE DE L'EDUCATION, 1977/1978
Year
Total    Annees
Terminale                                                                                                                                      Ensemble  d'6tudes
1ete                                                                                                                                              4,419       13
2eme                                  Boys/garcons                                                              Girls/Filles                      4,666      12
36me                                                                                                                                              6,072       11
4~e General Secondary1934                                                                                                                                 0
Secondaire g4ndral                                           ...........
seme                                                                ..............                                                               24,568       9
46me                                                              ................                                                               29,826       8                  w
CM2                     ....................~~.............
CM1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        .         . "'  .'''"  "''  ':     . .......
_dme    Primaire       g      1^ @ + 8 w e e @ @ @ + ^ S   et  +  @ ....................  - .                         .                        11136,874      7
CE1-|@... . . . . . .   . .. . . . . . . . . ..... .. ........ .... .....   ...........6SS l 2887 
-.;..;.;:::.;:::.:.,:............ :;.::.:-:::F':-::::::::.:.:.:.:::::.:.:.:.1.:,.............  ...................   . .............,_
CM2_ 1777...                                 .                                                                                                  150,990       6
I            I              II                           I ....II                                                   I 
cm1                                                ........ 60,00.400000,00. 0.0,00.40                                                          105,401       5
Source:   Primary               i
CE  1....
CE1  .....................................................                                                 ~~128,875      3
[P2_______________.........140,539
.. ....                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~172,343
100,000        80,000         60,000        40,000         20,000           0           20,000         40,000         60,000         80,000
Source: Ministry of National Education
Ministere de 1'6ducation nationale
World Bank-19816



IVORY OOAST/0TE D'IVOIRE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIM PROJIE EDUCATION
PROJECTD P1BLIC PRINARY TEACMED REQUEDENTS AND SUPPLY 1977/78 - 1987/88
MBM=  EN MAITRS DE L'ENSEIGIIN T PRIMAIRE PUBLIC, 1977/78 - 1987/88
Total Enrollsent. Taching Stock/Corps enseignant                                    uira tm/Besoina                              Output                 Deficit
(public primary)     Total            Trained                    ettrition                                 Total              CAIOPs/ENI        Untrained Teachers
Eff.ctifa $lobaux                    % ForMn                      Nouveaux          Besoine de             Totaux               niplan4s               Needed
(F,noeignement pri-                                                                 renouvellement                              CAFOP/ENI         Enseignants non form6s
maire public)                                                                                                                                            a recruter
1977/78                      672,700            16,016               91
1978179                       729,900           17,378               89                    1,362               448                   1,810               1,400                   510
1979/80                       791,900           18,855               89                    1,477               484                   1,961               1,840                   121
1980/81                       859,200            20,457              89                     1,602              528                   2,130               1,840                    290
1981/82                       932,3D0           22,198               88                    1,741               573                   2,314               1,840                   474
198z/85                     1,011,500           24,083               88                    1,885               622                   2,507               2,1206/                 387
1983/84                     1,097,500           26,131               88                    2,o48               674                   2,722               2,4006/                  322
1984/85                     1,190,800            28,352              89                    2,221               732                   2,953               2,540                    413
1985/86                     1,292,000            30,762              89                    2,420               794                   3,204               2,820                    384
1986/87                     1,401,800            33,376              89                    2,614               861                   3,475               2,960                   515
1987/88                     1,522,400            36,248              88                    2,872               935                   3,807               3,240                   567
1988/89                     1,651,800           39,328               88                    3,080             1,015                   4,095               3,520                   575
1989/90                     1,792,200           42,671               88                     3,343            1,101                   4,444               3,800                    644
2/  Based on Ministry of National E-ducation projections of 8.5% average annual growth rate to achieve by 1990 an enrollment rate of 99% of all six-year olds./Bast sur un taux
de croissance *oyen de 8.5% par an prevu par le NinistAre de 1'Aducation nationale pour atteindre un taux de scolarisation de  99% des enfants de 6 ane en 1990.
:/ Assuming a teacher; pupil ratio of 1:42./En supposant un tfux d'encadrement de 1/42.
T/ Trained teachers = Grade I and II teachers./HMatres foru6s = Instituteurs et instituteurs adjoints.
2.8% annual attrition rate of previous year's teaching stock./ Deperdition de 2.8% du corps   tnseignant de l'annee pr6cedente.
5/  Of the preceding year. Assumes 97% of trainees become primary teachers./ De l'annee precedente.  En supposant que 97% des stagiaires des CAFOP  entrent dans l'enBeignement primaire.
T/ Opening of two CAFOPs under third Bank project in 1981/82 and two in 1982/83. Output in subsequent years from new CAKIPe to be locally financed./Ouverture de deux CAFOP dana le cadre du
troisi4me projet BIRD on 1981/82 et de deux er 1982/83. Lee dipl6m4s des ann6e. ult6rieurea sont i.sus des nouveaux CADOP qui seront fin-ic4a aur funds nationaux.
Source: IBRD appraisal mission estimates baaed on information provided by Minietry of National Education./ Estimations de la mission d'evaluation BIRD A partir des donnees
fourniss par le Hinistbre de l'Aducation nationale-
Dcember 1978/d6cembre 1978



IVORY WOAST/0OSE D'IVOIRE
(0OSS DMtIC PRODUCT, WOYSU  BUD! AllD EDUCATION  PUDREG
PRODRIT wrnilm UUL3UDgF3m,Z         2T ET GUE S D_ 'IJATION
1960-lg77 
(CFAF nillion/en dilliono de France C(A)
Annual Growth Rate/Croianance Annuelle
1960            196,!         1920           1975            19,76                96-920                        292-19,7b
(Eat.     &Lrn   rcsCntn   rcrrern  prcsCntant prices
1oV97e.)    Prix courants Prix constants Prix courants   Prix constants
1.  G.D.P./P.I.B. (CrAF billion/en silliards
do FCFA)          140.7            236.8         414.0          834.5         1,113.9         11.4             8.1           17.0             7.2
A.  90u rnt ZxPenditurez/D4pwns9&
bu=dgtnir
2.  Total Goverument Eenditures/
26pnenop tot 1*                                            47,600        89,800        259,900         329,200                                          24.5            13.8
3.     Recurrent/Fonctionnemen2A/               18,270           34,600        61,100        128,300         152,300           12.8             9.5           16.4            5.7
4.      Capital/Investiaaeaent -                   ...           13,000        28,700        131,600         176,900                                          35.5            24.8
% 2/1                                ...               20.1          21.7           31.1            29.6
% 3/2                                ...               72.7          68.o           50.6            46.3
5.  Total Education Erpenditures/
Npenes &6ducstiom                          4,o58            8,548        20.915         65,625          76,167           17.8            14.4           24.0            13.3
6.     Recurrant/lonctionnouent                  3,553            8,030        18,947         51,097          64,156           18.2            14.8           22.6            11.9
7.      Capital/Inwestieeement                     505              518         1,968         14,528          12,011           14.6            11.2           35.0            24.3
% 5/2                                                  18.0          23.3           25.2            23.1
% 6/5                                 87.6             93.9          90.6           77.9            84.2
% 6/3                                 19.4             23.2          31.0           39.8            42.1
% 7/4                                                   4.0           6.9           11.0             6.8
% 5/1                                  2.9              3.6           5.1            7.9             6.8
B.  Foreign Aid/Aide ext4rieure
8.  Total Education Aid/Aid* en
iducation                                    411            2,355         5,227          6,6302(         6,544           29.0             25.2           3.8            -6.9
9.     Recurrent/Fonctionnement                    411            1,702         3,462          5,984_/         6,001           24.8             20.1
10.      Cepital/Investisaemnt                       _               653         1,765            6462/           543
% 9/8                                100.0             72.3          66.2           90.3            91.7
C.  Governnt nd Foreign EWxnditu-e/
DpeDnsea budgitaireo plu sides *zt4rieures
11.  Total  education expendituree
(axcludin6 household *xpenditur)/
D6pp ee duca tion (san d6penses
don weno6es))                           4,469           10,903        26,142         72,255          82,711           19.3             15.8          21.3            10.6
12.     Recurrent/Fonctionnenent                  3,964            9,732        22,409         57,081          70 157           18.9             15.4           21.0           10.3
13.      Capital/Investiseement                     505            1,171         3,733         15,174          12,554           22.1             18.6           22.5           11.8
% 11/1                                 3.2              4.6           6.3  .         8.7             7.4
% 12/11                               88.7             89.3          85.-           79.0            84.8
% 5/11                                90.8             78.4          80.0           90.8            92.1
1/  Excluding intereat payments, oupplementary budgets and Speedal accounta/Snas paiement des int*ritm de la cais.e autonome d'amortimsemnt et deo budgets annexis et comptes
ep6eiaux .
2/  Budget special d'inwstissement and other public inVestment.  RIe et outran invsatiaseaents publics.
3/  Ministry of National Edueation only/ Minietere de Il'dication cationale soulement.
Source: lission estisatee based on data provided by the Ivorian authorities/itabli par -la mission BIRD d partir des donn6ss fourniea par lee autorit6a ivoirionnas.
December 1978/d&cembre 1978



IVORY COAST - TIliWD EDUCATION PROJECT/COTE D'IVOIRE - TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Cost Suamary Table/Tableau Recapitulatif des CoOts
(US$ thousand/milliers de $EU)
Specialist
Services/        Fellowships/
Civil Works/       Architectural        Furniture/        Equipment/       Assistance         Bourses de
Project Items/Elements du projet                              Genie Civil       Fees! Honoraires        6obilier        Equipement        technique         formation        Administration         Total
A.  Vocational Training/Formation professionnelle                    34,10                1.720               1.655             9.065              880               600                               48,025
Vocational Institute/Lycee professionnel - Man                    9,015                 450                395              3,340              220                -                 -              13,420
- Gagnoa              9,380                 470                550             1,910               220               -                  -             12,530
- San Pedro           7,363                 370                355             1,430               220               -                  -              9,740
- Odienne             8,345                 430                355              2,385              220               -                  -             11,735
Technical teacher training/Formation instructeurs                   -                    -                  -                 -                 -               600                 -                 600
B.  Primary Teacher Training/Enseignement normal                       8.30p                450                 390               645               _        -                          -               9,785
Teacher training center/CAFOP - Katiola                           2,100                 115                 95                155               -                -                  -              2,465
o- dienne                         2,750                 150                105                175               -                -                  -              3,180
- Aboisso                         1,950                 105                 90                145               -                -                  -              2,290
- Korhogo                         1,500                  80                100                170               -                -                  -              1,850
C.  Community Development/Promovillage                                   455                 25                  35               535              705                70                90              1,915
D. Education Planning and Project Preparation/Planif.cation
de 1'education et preparation de projet.                                                350                                    30              5                                                      910
E.  Project Management/Bureau du projet                                                      -                  -                 110            1.500                -                615              2,225
Base Cost, including taxes/CoGt de base TTC                      42,860               2.545              2.080            10,385             3.615              670                705            62,860
Physical contingencies/Imprevus                                 4,285                 255                210             1,040                -                -                  -              5,790
Price escalation/Augmentation des coats                        11,560                400                 500             2,670               860              135                165            16,290
Total contingencies/Total imprevus                               15,845                 655                710              3,710              860              135                165            22,080
TOTAL PROJECT COST/COUT TOTAL DU PROJET                          58.705               3.200              2.790            14,095             4,475              805                870            84,940
Taxes                                                            15,265                 575                695             3,865             1,115              200                220            21,935
Net-of-tax project cost/Coat du projet HT                        43,440               2,625              2,095            10,230             3,360              605                650            63,005
1/ Base costs as of June 30, 1979/Cou t de base, 30 juin '979.



IVORY COAST -          )DUCATION PROJECT/COTE D'IVOIRE - TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Contingency Allowances/Provisions pour imprevus et augmentation des coats
(US$ '000/en milliers de dollars EU)
Expected price       Total contingencies/
Physical                               escalation/          Total imprevus et
Base Costs/          Contingencies!                             Augmentation            augmentation
Costs including taxes!        Coats de base            Impr4vus            Sub-total/            des couts              des coGts
Category/Categorie                     Cota TTC             %  Amount/Montant    7/ Amount/Montant    Total partiel    %  Amount/Montant    %  Amount/Montant                    TOTAL
Civil Works/Genie civil        Total                               42,860         10        4,285             47,145       25       11,560         37        15,845             58,705
Local                    55      23,573                   2,357             25,930                 6,358                    8,715             32,288
Foreign/en devises       45       19,287                  1,928             21,215                 5,202                    7,130             26,417
Architectural fees!            Total                                 2,545        10          255              2,800        14          400        26           655              3,200
Honoraires d'architectes          Local                    40        1,018                    102              1,120                    160                     262              1,280
Foreign/en devises       60        1,527                    153              1,680                    240                     393              1,920
Furniture/Mobilier             Total                                 2,080        10          210              2,290        22          500        34           710              2,790
Local                    50        1,040                    105              1,145                    250                     355              1,395
Foreign/en devises       50        1,040                    105              1,145                    250                     355              1,395
Equipment/Equipement           Total                                10,385        10        1,040             11,425       23        2,670         36         3,710             14,095
Local                    32        3,323                    333              3,656                    854                   1,187              4,510
Foreign/en devises       68        7,062                    707              7,769                 1,816                    2,523              9,585
Specialist Services/           Total                                 3,615                                      ,615       24           860        24           860              4,475
Assistance technique              Local                    27          976                                        976                   232                     232              1,208
Foreign/en devises       73        2,639                                     2,639                    628                     628              3,267
Fellowships/Bourses            Total                                   670                                       670       20           135        20           135                805
Local                    27          181                                        181                    36                      36                217
Foreign/en devises       73          489                                       489                     99                      99                588
Administration                 Total                                   705                                        705       23          165        23           165                870
Local                    66          465                                       465                    109                     109                574
Foreign/en devises       34          240                                        240                    56                      56                296
Total                          Total                                62,860         9        5,790             68,650       24       16,290         35        22,080             84,940
Local                   (49)     30,576                   2,897             33,473                  7,999                  10,896             41,472
Foreign/en devises    (51)        32,284                  2,893             35,177                 8,291                   11,184             43,468
The expected price escalation is calculated on the basis of:/Les previsions d'augmentation des couts sont calcul6s sur la base de:
(i) base costs as of June 1979/couts de base estimgs a juin 1979;
(ii) project completion by June 1984/achevement du projet en juin 1984;
(iii) price escalation corresponding to estimated progress of implementation/augmentation des couts calculee en fonction du calendrier d'execution estime;
(iv) inflation rates/taux d'inflation:
1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
Civil Works and Architectural Fees/
CGnie civil et honoraires:              Local                       16%         12%         10%         10%         10%          -
Foreign/en devises          8%          7%          7%/         7%           7%          -
Furniture and Equipment/Mobilier                                    1
et equipement                                                    10%          9"'          87          7%          7/          _
Specialist Services, Fellowships and
Administration/Assistance technique,                               8%          8%          8%          8%          8%          8%
bourses et administration



IVORY COAST - 'E      D)UCATION PROJECT/COTE 0'I[OIIE - TEOISIEM  PROJET EDUCATION
Fin-ncina Plan/Plan do finc-sa"at
(US$ thousanda/milliers do SO)
Total Coat/              IbRD/                                                              G Ooveroment/Gouvernement
Project Copocents/Elements du Prolet                                            Coat total               BIRD                 Phase 1               Phase 2                                       Taxes
A.  VOCATIONAL TRAINING/ 'LYCEES PROPESSIONNELS
LP Man         Civil Worka/GO6ie civil                                             9,015                 4,065                   _                     -                   4 950                  2,340
Architectural Fees/Ronoraires                                         450                   315                   -                     -                     135                     80
Furnitur/Mobiliar                                                     395                    *                    -                    200                    195                    100
Equip-ent/Equipement                                               3,340                     -                1,530                    740                  1,070                    935
LP Gagnoa      Civil Works/Genie civil                                             9,380                 4,230                   -                     -                   5,150                  2,440
Architectural Fee-a/onoraires                                         470                  330                    -                     -                     140                    85
Funfiture/Mobilier                                                    550                    -                    -                    275                    275                   140
Equipm,ent/Equipement                                               1,910                    _                1,300                     -                     610                   535
LP San Pedro  Civil Warks/CAnie civil                                              7,365                    -                 3,315                    -                   4,050                  1,910
Architectural Fe./Hooorairao                                          370                   255                   -                                           115                    65
Furniture/Mobilier                                                    355                    -                   175                    -                     180                     90
Equipment/Equipment                                                 1,430                    -                   970                    _                     460                   400
LP Odienne    Civil Works/Cenie civil                                              8,345                    -                    -                  3,755                  4,590                 2,170
Architeetural Fees/NHnoraires                                         430                   295                                                               135                     75
Furniture/Mnbilier                                                    355                                         -                    175                    180                     90
Equip.ect/Equipe.ent                                                2,385                    -                                       1,620                    765                   670
Specialist Services/Aosistancc  technique                             880                  640                    -                                           240                   220
Fellovships/Boursea                                                   600                   440                   -                     _                     160                    10
Sub-total/Total partiel                                      48.025                10i570                7.290                 6t765                 23,400                 12.495
B. PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING CENTERS/CAFOPS
Civil Works/GCii  civil                                            8,300                 3,735 0                                        _                   4,565                 2,160
Architectural Fe-o/Hooor-ire-                                         450                   315                   -                     -                      135                    80
Furniture/Mobilier                                                    390                   195 0                                                             195                   IDO
Equipment/Equipement                                                  645                   435                   -                                           210                    180
Sub-total/Total partiel                                       9,785                 4,680                   -                                         5,105                 2,520
C.  COMMUNITY DEVELORPENT[/PRIMVILLAGE
Civil Works/Ge5ie civil                                               455                   205                   -                     -                     250                    120
Architectural Fees/Honor-ires                                          25                    15                   -                                             10                     5
Furniture/Mobilier                                                     35                    20                   -                                             15                    10
Equipaent/Equipement                                                  535                   365                   -                                            170                   150
Spacialist Servic'..A,aistan-e  technique                             705                   515                   -                                           190                    175
F.llo.ship./B.urses                                                    70                    50                   -                                            20                     15
Adbinitration                                                         90                    -                                                                  0                     25
Sub-tetal/Totel partiel                                       1.915                 1,170                                          -                     7405                  500
D. EDUCATION PLANNINS AND PROJECT PREPARATIO03YLANIFICATION DE VIEDUCATION ET
PREDARATICN DE PlU0lET
Archit-etural Feet//Henraire-                                         350                   240                   -                                            110                    65
Equipment/Equipement                                                   30                    20                   -                                             10                     5
Specialist Services/Assistance technique                              530                   380                   -                                            150                   [35
Sub-total/Total particl                                         910                   640                   _                                            270                   205
E.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT/BUREAU DU PROJET
Equipment/Equipement                                                  110   .                75                              -                                  35                    30
Specialist Service-/Assiet-nce technique                            1,500                 1,095                   -                                           405                    375
Adeini.tr-tiec                                                        615                    -                                                                 615                   155
Sub-tctal!Total partiel                                       2,225                 1,170                   -                      _                   1,055                   060
Base C.st/CoGt do base                                                              62,860                18,230                7,290                 6,765                  30,575                 16,280
Physicul Cunticgcnuiee/lIprsvu-                                                 5,790                 1.495                  730                   670                  2 ,95                 10500
Price Ecalution/Aus4Iat.ou des cuGts                                         16,290                 4,275                1,880                  2,165                  7,970                 4,155
Total Contingencies/Tutul  opvs                                                     22,                    5,770                2,8610               d23k5                  1                       5655
TOTAL 2OS/COUT TOTAL                                                               84,940                2400                  9L900                 9.600                 41,440                 21935



IVORY COAST/COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ineremental Repctrrent Costs/Auzmentation des couts recurrents
(1978 constant prices - CFAF million /couts 1978 - en millions de FCFA constants)
A
Total Cost/Cout total
Salaries/       Student Boarding/       Operating Costs/       (CFAF          (US$.,
Salaires            Internat        Cout de fonctionnement  million)    million)
Vocational Training/Lycees
professionnels                                705                 345                     95             1,145           5.2
Primary Teacher Training Centers/
CAFOPs                                        350                 175                     60               585           2.7
Communitv Developmen t/Promovillage             165                  10                     75                250          1.1
Total                                         1,220                 530                    230             1,980           9.0
Estimated Recurrent Education Budget, 1983/
Budget de fonctionnement, 1983 (estime)                                                                117,000        531.8    W
Incremental costs as percentage of recurrent
budget/Augmentation des coats en pourcentage
du budget de fonctionnement                                                                                  1.5%
Estimated Recurrent Agriculture Budget- 1983/
Budget de fonctionnement, 1983 (estimi)                                                                 12,900          58.6
Incremental cost as percentage of recurrent
budget/Augmentation des coats en pourcentage
du budget de fonctionnement                                                                                  1.9%
Source:  Mission estimates/Estimation par la misston
June 1Y79/Juin 1979



IVORY COAST- THIRD EDUCATION PROJECTICOTE D'IVOIRE - TROISIEMjE PROJET EDUCATION
IlIWlentat ion SthaduLa /Galmadrier d .xicution
Calendar Year/Ann6e, eivile                                     ~~~~~~1979         1980              1981              1982              1983              1984
Project Component,/1iensuro tI  ia    3 14   1   2   3 14   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
LP Gagnoa/Man/San Pedro/Odienn6                                                       maw M-  owu   mosk                                mm.i- - 
Furniture and Equipment/Mobilier et ~quipement
LP Gagtnoa/Nan/San Pedro/odane=6
Specialist Services/Assistance technique
Expert:  cosserce/secteur tertiaire                                                                                                                           I
Expert:  mechanics/.6canique
Expert:  building construction and public worka/b2timent, TP
Expert:  agro- industry/agro-industrie
Fellowships/Bourses
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAININC CENTERS /CAFOFs
Construction  Isa 1A
Furniture and Equipmeot/Mobilier et Aquipement                                          hU, o   W bI ""  All"m
CO4MUITY DEVILOPMENT/MaKtOVILIAGE
Construction                                                                                 -
Furniture and Equipmnt/Mobilier et 4qui!sementa..li
Specialist Servicas/Assistance technique:
- Field )IA&aager/Chef d'opiration
- Training Specialist /Sp6cialiste en formation
- Evaluation Specialista/Sptcislistes en 6valuation
- Fel lowships/Bourses
EDUCATIONAL PLANNING AND PROJECT PREPARATION/PLANTFICATION DE L' EDUJCA-
TION ET PREPARATION DE PROJET
Specialist Services/Assistance technique
- Educational Plannere and Ecoeeisists/Planificateurs de 1'Riduca-
tion at 4conooisiaes
- Architectural Conaultants /Architectes
PROJECT MMANAEMENT/BUREAU DU PROJET
Specialist Services/Assistance technique
- Project Manager/Gestionnaire
- Architect/Architecte
- Civil Works Adviser/Conseiller en g4nie civil
- Equipment Engineer/Ingdnieurt en iquipesent
-Eauipuent Consultants/Conseillers en 6qi4pement                                                 7     7    J                              
Legend/1L6gende:      ~    ~     '%   Design; Preparation of Bidding Documents/Etudes; pr8paration des documents de consultation
****I*IEIII*aTendering Procedures and Contract Award/Consultation, Evaluation des offres et attribution des march&s 
Construction: construction period/DurAe du chantier
Equipment and Furniture: delivery and installation/Equipement et mobilier: livraison et installation
Specialist Services: duration of assignment/Assistance technique: dur6e de l'affectation
Fellowships: duration of training/Bourses: durPe de la formation



IVORY COAST - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/COTE D' IVOIRE - TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Su_ary of Specialist Services/Tableau saomaire des apecialistes de l'assistance technique
Cost estimates
Number of                           Starting          (US$ '000)
Specialists/          Total           date/           Ectimations
Project Component/            Ref.                                                  Nombre de         man-months/       date de         des couts (en                    Summary Job Description/
Element du projet             Para.                Title/Titre                     sp4cialistes       mois-hommes    demarrage        milliers de $EU)              Description sommaire des tScjhes
A. VOCATIONAL TRAINING            2.06         Technical-vocational Educators/                4                 96            4-82                880              Assist Directors of vocational institutes
LYCEES PRO!ESSIONNELS                     Experts en formation profession-                                                                                     in preparing and setting up training pro-
nelle.                                                                                                              grams/Assistent ls directeurs des lycees
professionnels dans la preparation et la
mise en oeuvre des programmes de formation.
B.  CQiMUNITY DEVELOPMENT/        2.11        Field Manager/Chef d'op&ration                  1                 24             1-81               220              Executescommunity development programs at
PRCROVILLAGE                                                                                                                                                   the village level/Responsable de 1'ex6cu-
tion des programmes locaux.
Training Specialist/Sp6cialiste en             1                 24             1-81               220              Trainscomsunity development agents and
formation.                                                                                                          set up a variety of village-level training
programs/Forme lea agents de d-veloppement
et 6tablit les divers programmes de
formation des paysans.
Evaluation specialists/                        -                 22            1-80                265              Evaluate effectiveness of the community
Spcialistes en evaluation.                                                                                         development progrems/Evaluent 1'efficacit6
des programmes.
C.   MIJT N   LANNING AND   2.14              Educational Planners and Economists/             _                54            4-80                530              Hel  plan investments for e
PR,OJFCMT }>WWARMT?  P0AW_                Planificateurs de l'6ducation et                                                                                     prepare future education-training projects/
FrCATIQK DE L           1T           sA                                                                                                                        Asaiatance pour la planification des
_,WTIONET-,       hconomiistea.Amitcepu
______________________                                                                                                                                         investismemeats educeatif  et la prepara-
tionid'un projet education.
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT/            2.'15        Project Manager/Gestionnaire.                  1                 54             1-80               490              AssistsProject Director with day-to-day
GESTION DU PROJET                                                                                                                                              management of project implementation and
exercise administrative and financial
control/Assiste le directeur du projet
dans la gestion du projet, notamment
administrative et financiere.
Archltect/Archicecte                           118                             10-80               170              Architectural coordination and control/
Coordination et contr8l. architectural
du projet.
Civil Works Adviser/Conseiller en              1                 42             1-80               380              Technical coordination and control/
genie civil.                                                                                                      Coordination et contrale des travaux de
gBnie civil.
Equipment Engineer/Ingenieur                   1                 36            1-80                320              Coordination and control of furniture and
en gquipement.                                                                                                    equipment procurement/Coordination et
contr6le de l'acquisition du mobilier et
de 1'6quipement.
Equipment Consultants/4Conei-llers                               12             1-80               140              Preparation of equipment lists and spe-
en 6quipement.                                                                                                      cifications/Elaboration des listes et des
specifications d'equipement.
Base cost,June 30, 1979/Cout de base,30 juin 1979.



ANNEX 12
- 40 -
IVORY COAST - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/COTE D'IVOIRE - TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Schedule of Disbursements/Calendrier des decaissements
IBRD Loan Account/Compte du pret BIRD
(US$ thousands/milliers de $EU)
Accumulated       Undisbursed
Fiscal Year/                                        Disbursements/      Balance/
Annee         Quarter/       Disbursements/    Decaissements        Solde non
budgetaire*    Trimestre       Decaissements         accumules        decaisse
1980             4                 250                 250            23,750
1981             1                 250                 500            23,500
2                 450                 950            23,050
3                 300              1,250             22,750
4                 700              1,950             22,050
1982             1               2,150               4,100            19,900
2               1,750              5,850             18,150
3               4,450             10,300             13,700
4               2,950             13,250             10,750
1983             1               2,750              16,000             8,000
2               2,700             18,700              5,300
3               2,100             20,800              3,200
4               1,550             22,350              1,650
1984             1                 400              22,750             1,250
2                 250             23,000              1,000
3                 250             23,250                750
4                 200             23,450                550
1985             1                 200              23,650               350
2                 150             23,800                200
3                 100             23,900                100
4                 100             24,000                  0
* Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30/Annee budgetaire: ler juillet - 30 juin.



. - 41 -                      ANNEX 13
IVORY COAST - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/COTE D'IVOIRE - TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
List of Related Documents Available in the Project File/
Liste des documents classes dans le dossier du projet
1. C^ote d'Ivoire - Education: Developpement et reforme, Vc,lumes I et II.
UNESCO, aout 1977.
2. Educat:ion Sector Memorandum. Wor:Ld Bank, September 30, 1977.
3.  Document de travail sur les priorites a retenir pour un troisieme projet
education-formation.  Ministere de l'education nationale, 25 octobre 1977.
4.  Inventaire des moyens de formation dependant des ministeres techniques.
METFP/ONFP, janvier 1978.
5.  L'enseignement technique et la formation professionnelle en Cote d'Ivoire.
METFP/ONFP, fevrier 1978.
6. Evolution des emplois du secteur moderne, 1976-1990.
MEP/METFP, juillet 1978.
7. La formation des formateurs du MET/FP - Implantation et Developpement.
METFP/IPNETP.
8. Les lycees professionnels (avec Annexes 1, 2 et 3). METFP/ONFP, octobre 1978.
9. Lycee professionnel agro-alimentaire. SODETEG, octobre 1978.
10. Operation Promovillage. Ministere de l'Agriculture, janvier 1979.
11. Programme des Constructions Scolaires - Rapport final cle mission.
SOCOTEC, 1978.
12. Completion Report - First Education Project, World Bank, May 31, 1978.






IBRa D n 4171  R
-    -vd roads                         FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT:
IVORY   COAST                                                                                 I                                  T M   A   L  Iro e  Pvel roads  *  Pn.o0 To-hoTMol C
M   A   L  I                        0.... -  -Eott rod             0   SnrtStol 3
PaEd rhd                                 T~I,-,d Scoot 2
THIRD  EDUCATION   PROJECT                                                                     .......  P. efd ;ndT c,d, .-.-t-               d ThA
< 7Zf T:                                                 3a-ako > 2 > e  011-k,  airpor-s n;t Te obsrTrahns9Csenter21
QVk t f ( +- \ g\ es <~ X l  oOf.lc.s 0. reglnol di+THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                        stast, TEC
reg Cpil,,eo diasioflo-__4_
I        -#)~~~2-'                                                                                                                         VostoA E DprtetlspS  0 60 * PiaralseTainC?n4
L  UPPER    VOLTA
BGOUND                                      ERSSEDOUGOU 
NA    A.PAIO,K              4s
G U I N  E A   /                  lV                    <     dIn]                          Tgfir,                                      
4   $   i-      /       5\  1/    vr    t X                 <               I \       rd                           \          \~~~-  s
I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'-a
_  l    @-   >}     tB~~~~IANCKOUMA  a                       0o                                                                        avd        1 0t --e /~       ;+ }
DANANe         MAB.                                                                             b 
5 ' <' ~~~bBongolo  AO    Asur5 
siC__                     Pinlof                                              f%                            -s\,  / 'M                        \
D..                               Aplb~"ADOP ~ ilk
=-X1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D  J  z--;_
(/ A  F  R    I    C   |   \)   _   to  A     '  A   r                     A  N    A i  C  =
AbRbo Alp 7    -     -     e 'Uo
L I B E R I A  dY.b.y.                                                                  F-t~   ~ ~~~.~    ~
Dod- L.ltu                  Roe                  HlS:  seh
ATL ZAN TIC                   OCEA N                    h paatn&tdw
______________________                                                             0                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY l97~



