Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15670
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 15, 1996
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
( as of 02/96 )
Currency Unit =    Dominican Peso
D$           =     US$ 0.08
US$1.00      =     RD$12.58
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 gallon    =      3.785 liters
1 mile      =      1.6120 kilometers
1 pound     =      0.453 kg
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS USED
APD                -      Dominican Port Authority
BOO                -      Build, Operate and Own
BOT                -      Build, Operate and Transfer
CEA                -      State Sugar Board
DARE               -      Department for Administration of External Resources
DCCT               -      Department for Control of Earth Excavation
DGFO               -      General Directorate of Works Monitoring
DGM                -      General Directorate of Road Maintenance
DGPP               -      General Directorate of Planning and Programming
DGTT               -      General Directorate for Land Transport (SEOPC)
DRS                -      Directorate of Norms and Regulations
EA                 -      Environmental Assessment
EIRRs              -      Economic Internal Rates of Return
FHRMP              -      Fifth Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
GDP                -      Gross Domestic Product
HIP                -      Highway Investment Plan
ICB                -      International Competitive Bidding
IDB                -      Inter-American Development Bank
NCB                -      National Competitive Bidding
ONAPLAN            -      National Planning Office
ONMV               -      Road Maintenance Agency
OTTT               -      Technical Office of Land Transport
PCT                -      Project Coordinating Team
SEOPC              -      Secretariat of State of Public Works and Communications



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Dominican Republic.
Implementing
Agency:               Secretariat of State of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC).
Beneficiary:          SEOPC.
Poverty Category:     This project does not specifically address poverty reduction. It is not
included in the Program of Targeted Interventions. Nevertheless, it
includes programs and policies that enhance growth, thereby creating
employment and reducing poverty. It will also contribute to improve
access of rural areas to market and services and to form and strengthen
small enterprises that will be involved in routine maintenance contracts,
which will benefit low-income communities from their employment
under those contracts.
Loan Amount:          US$75 million.
Terms:                Standard amortization term, grace period and interest rate for fixed-
rate US dollar single currency loan with an expected disbursement
period of 3-6 years.
Commitment Fee:       0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Net Present Value:    All subprojects will meet eligibility criteria that assess institutional,
environmental and technical factors (including the sustainability of the
investments) as well as economic benefits. The economic criteria
establish a benchmark minimum rate of return of 12 percent, based on a
cost/benefit analysis. The economic analysis of the civil works sub-
projects yields a net present value of US$99.3 million and a prorated
internal economic rate of return of about 24.5%.
Financing Plan:       See para. 2.8.
Environmental
Classification:       B



Map:                  IBRD-27393
Project Identification
Number:               DO-PA-35722
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director:       Edilberto Segura, LA2DR
Paul Isenman, LA3DR
Division Chief:   Martin Staab, LA2
Peter Ludwig, LA3IN
Task Manager:  Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge, LA3IN



DOMMICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
1. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR SETTING ................................................1
ECONOMIC SETTING ...........................................................1
TRANSPORT SECTOR OVERVIEW ..........................................................1
ROAD TRANSPORT .......................................................... 4
PREVIOUs BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................                          .......................................... 11
2. THE PROJECT .............................................................................................................................................12
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ..........................................................                                                    12
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ..........................................................                                           13
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................... 13
PROJECT DEscRIPTIoN .......................................................... 14
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ..........................................................                                                 16
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .......................................................... 17
EcoNoMIcEvALUATIoN ..........................................................                                                       18
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................... 21
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................................                                                            21
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................................................                                      21
MONITORING, REPORTING AND BANK SUPERVISION .......................................................... 23
PROCUREMENT ..........................................................                                                              24
DisBuRsEMENTs, ACCOUNTING AND AuDITs .......................................................... 27
PROJECT BENEFITS ..........................................................                                                         29
PROJECTRISKS ..........................................................                                                             30
4. AGREEMENTS REACIIED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............................................                                            31
ANNEXES  ............................................... 33
MAP: IBRD-27393
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions that visited the Dominican Republic in February and
August, 1995, and of an appraisal mission in February 1996. The missions were composed of Messrs. Jose M.
Alonso-Biarge (Task Manager, LA21N/LA3IN), Peter Gyamfi (Transport Specialist, LA2IN), John Halpern
(Operations Officer, LA2IN), Aurelio Menendez (Transport Economist, LA3IN), Rodrigo Archondo-Callao
(Consultant, TWUTD), Angel Gonzalez Malax-Echevarria (Consultant, Auditing, Accounting and Financial
Management) and Dorian Villalba (Local Consultant, SEOPC). The team in the SEOPC was led by Mr. Daniel
G6mez (Project Coordinator, SEOPC). Peer reviewers are: Messrs. Jose L. Irigoyen (LA3IN) and Antti Talvitie
(OEDD3). Mr. Martin Staab (LA2IN) was the responsible Division Chief until April 1, 1996. Mr. Peter Ludwig
(LA31N) is the present Division Chief. Mr. Edilberto Segura (LA2) was the Department Director until March 15,
1996. Mr. Paul Isenman is the present Department Director. Mr. Shahid Javed Burki is the Vice President, Latin
America and Caribbean Region.






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR SETTING
EcoNOMIc SETrING
1.1   After vigorous economic growth from the mid-1960s to the end of the 1970s, Dominican
Republic's economy deteriorated sharply during the 1980s. GDP per capita decreased from
US$1,290 in 1982 to US$774 in 1990 (an annual decrease of about 7% compared with the 6%
annual growth in the 1970s). During that period unemployment rose from 18% to 25%, the
external debt rose to 63.6% of GDP, international reserves decreased sharply and inflation rose to
about 100%. To address this economic situation, the Government started implementing an
economic stabilization program in mid- 1990, based on a shift towards the free-market system.
This included continued liberalization of the currency exchange rate, which has reduced inflation
to less than 10%, increased international reserves significantly and enabled the country to clear all
arrears to the international financing institutions. GDP has also grown at about 4% per year over
the five years since the program started.
1.2   The economy badly needs further improvement as a large percentage of the population of
7.5 million continues to live below the poverty level. Any strategy for improvement should,
however, take into consideration the substantial structural changes in the economy since the 1970,
namely the shifting of the economic backbone from the primary sector, i.e. sugar, ferronickel, etc.,
to the tertiary sector, with dramatic growth in tourism, industries in the free trade zones (mostly
garments and pharmaceuticals) and small service enterprises which currently account for about
60% of GDP. Such a strategy would emphasize: (a) completing the fiscal measures and free-
market drive undertaken under the 1990 stabilization program, (b) improving the basic
infrastructure necessary for energy, transport, agriculture, education and health, (c) implementing
a philosophy of governance that would shift the government's role from operating productive
assets, directing industry and economic processes to that of monitoring, regulating, setting policy
and standards and creating enabling conditions for strong private sector participation and for
economic development. The sustainable development of the tertiary sector would depend very
heavily on an adequate transport system, particularly roads, which are the backbone of the
transport system.
TRANSPORT SECTOR OVERVIEW
1.3   General. DR's sustainable economic development relies heavily on the transport system
to provide efficient access to tourism growth poles, free trade zones and markets for primary
agricultural production and mining output. The imputed costs of transport, which depends upon
the physical condition of the infrastructure and the efficiency of the transport industry, has a very
significant incidence on the sale price of goods. In the DR, the cost differential for a heavy truck
on a road in good condition compared to one in a bad state could be as high as US$0.16 per km,



-2 -
which translates into a transport cost difference of between 12% and 18% for an average truck
trip and between 2% and 4% in the final cost to the consumer.
1.4    Transport Infrastructure. DR's transport infrastructure is generally adequate both in
extent, quantity and in providing access to the 48.442 km2 of surface area and its 7.5 million
population. The provision of new facilities is therefore generally not of high priority in the
immediate to medium-term. The system, which consists of some 5,000 km of highways, 14,000
km of rural roads, 1,700 km of railways for transporting sugar cane, 15 commercial ports, of
which 3 are major ports, and 7 intemational airports, 8 domestic airdromes and 29 landing strips,
require maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement due to insufficient maintenance in the past.
1.5    Transport Operations. Road transport is the dorninant mode for domestic transport
both for goods and passengers (about 95% for goods and 100% for passengers), railways account
for 5% of cargo (3.9 million tons per year, mostly sugar cane), domestic air transport and all
other modes are almost null for both, cargo and passenger mobility. Road transport operations are
Table 1.1 Vehicle Fleet and Ownership I/
Cars                            117,193    210,000    234,100     5.6
Jeeps                             5,140    24,410    29,469       9.9
Pickups & Vans                   40,127    113,430    133,358     8.4
Buses & Minibuses                 9,136    26,510    30,227       6.8
Trucks (2 Axles)                 24,696    23,089    22,423      -1.4
Trucks (Multiaxle) & Trailers    2,409      9,450    10,819       7.0
Total                           198,701    406,889    460,396     6.6
Population (Thousands)           5,713      7,708     8,067       2.3
Motorization 3/                   34.8       52.8      56.7       3.6
Source: Direcci6n General de Rentas Internas
Notes:
1/ 540,000 motorcycles not included
2/ Estimated
3/ Per 1,000 inhabitants
95% handled by the private sector while rail transport is 60% govemment-owned. The road
vehicle fleet in circulation is about 460,000 vehicles, growing annually at 6.6% compared to a
population growth of 2.3%. The vehicle ownership rate of about 57 vehicles per 1000 inhabitants
is high for countries with sirnilar GDP .
1.6    Sea and air transport are the dominant modes for intemational freight and passengers
respectively. International freight traffic (about 9 million tons in 1994) is 97% transported by sea,
of which 85% corresponds to imports, 9% to exports and 6% to in transit cargo. In the last 10
years, freight traffic by sea increased at 14% per annum. The economy is highly dependent on
imported petroleum and its derivative products (40% of the total imports). Air passenger
transport increased at a rate of about 4% between 1985 and 1994. During 1994 almost 2 million



international passengers visited the Dominican Republic using mainly Las Americas and Puerto
Plata international airports for regular and charter flights, as weli as Punta Cana and La Romana
airports for tourist charter services. International air transport is handled by two domestic airlines
companies and several foreign carriers. The Government is studying several offers from external
air carriers to concession the services and routes of the Dominican Aviation Company, the
national carrier, which is no longer operating under huge financial losses.
1.7   Institutional Set-Up. The Secretariat of State of Public Works and Communications
(SEOPC) has responsibility for overall transport sector management. In practice, however,
SEOPC's action is mainly concentrated on the roads sub-sector, for which it is responsible for
planning, maintenance, rehabilitation and construction as well as for the control of road traffic
signalization and issuing of driver's licenses. SEOPC's organizational structure for roads has been
improved during the implementation of loans 2609-DO and 33 50-DO and now is generally
adequate, except for certain weaknesses in financial management and internal audit functions (see
paras. 1.9 and 1.10).
1.8   The Directorate of Road Maintenance, a weak institution within SEOPC, is receiving
technical assistance financed under the ongoing Loan 3350-DO to revise its structure and improve
management practices. The Dominican Port Authority (APD) administers the five principal ports,
the Directorate General of Customs administers seven and two are in private hands. The
Government is transferring the responsibility for all ports to APD. The final objective is for APD
to concession all port operations to private operators. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation
handles the regulatory aspects of civil aviation while the Commission on Civil Aviation is
responsible for the administrative and policy aspects. In the rail sub-sector, the State Sugar Board
(CEA) is responsible for the 1,014 km owned by the Government while the private sector
manages its own 675 km. Other entities which intervene in transport sector matters include: (a)
the Technical Office of Land Transport (OTTT), which plans and oversees urban transport, (b)
the National Planning Office (ONAPLAN), which integrates the transport sector plans with the
national plan; (c) the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce (SEIC), which participates in
transport tariff setting and (d) the local authorities, on issues involving the exploitation of
minerals, quarries and other facilities in their areas.
1.9   Financial Management. During project preparation a broad revision of SEOPC's
administrative structure was performed, as the entity in charge of project execution. Special
attention was given to the organization and the functions of the SEOPC's General Directorate of
the Administration and its three basic functions: Accounting, Budget and Treasury. Annex 1
presents the conclusions regarding the administrative systems and the financial management
structure of the SEOPC. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has financed an external
consulting work covering the financial management and institutional and administrative processes.
The recommendations of the work were found acceptable and should be implemented during the
life of the proposed project.
1.10 Particular reference is made in Annex 1 to the structure, functions, dependency, terms of
reference and working program of the Internal Audit Unit. Under the model recommended
during project appraisal, the internal audit function and unit could be renamed Internal
Performance Audit. A highlight of the recommended structure and organization is the



-4 -
establishment in that unit of two complementary groups of professionals: one for the financial-
administrative aspects, and the other for the economy, efficiency, effectiveness, engineering and
environmental follow-up, including field visits of projects' execution.
1.11  Government's Transport Sector Policy and Investments. The Government's transport
sector policy and strategy for 1995 and beyond are outlined in a Policy Letter sent to the Bank
(Annex 2). The following sections summarize key aspects of government policy.
1.12  It is government's policy to promote competition among road transport operators. The
Government only intervenes in the setting of road-user charges, road safety and vehicle
inspection, axle load controls and setting of passenger fares. Axle load enforcement is being
improved under the ongoing Loan 3350-DO, which is studying the possible reduction in the
current 13-ton single axle load limit, designing a system of axle load control and purchasing weigh
bridges to control axle loads. Further Government involvement in the transport sector is mainly
limited to urban passenger transport, for which it sets tariffs, licenses operators and assigns routes
and frequencies. There is minimum interference in freight transport and inter-urban passenger
services.
1.13 Full cost recovery is a high priority. In the roads subsector, the Government has ensured
and will continue to do so that sufficient revenues are raised through road user charges to cover,
at least, road maintenance and rehabilitation. Previously, those charges were inadequate when the
price of gasoline was low. For ports, the Government's policy is to concession port operations to
the private sector to make them financially self-sufficient. For railways, the Government has
abandoned lines when their traffic levels have made their operation uneconomic. For civil
aviation, the Government is examining offers from foreign airlines to operate the routes and
services of the uneconomic state-owned carrier.
1.14  The Government's sector policy also aims to complete reconstruction of the entire
highway network, eliminating bottlenecks in that network and improving maintenance; it also
gives high priority to constructing those roads necessary to integrate the tourist areas on the
northern and eastern shore with the rest of the transport network.
1.15  Over the period 1989 to 1995, transport sector investments have accounted for between
13% to 21% of total public sector investment. Roads have received over 90% of the transport
investments, mostly for reconstruction and rehabilitation of interurban roads and for construction
of city streets.
ROAD TRANSPORT
1.16 General. Roads are the backbone of the transport system. Internal cargo traffic consists
mainly of exports of commodities to the ports (sugar, coffee, cacao and minerals) and transport of
agricultural products from the central regions to Santo Domingo and of industrial and consumer
goods from Santo Domingo to the rest of the country. Tourist centers depend heavily on road
infrastructure for improving its quality of service and expansion.



1.17 Road Network. The road network under the responsibility of the SEOPC totals about
19,000 km (August 1995), of which 5,000 km are highways and the rest rural roads being
rehabilitated or reconstructed with IDB financing. The highway network is relatively extensive.
No significant new construction is required, except for a few links to connect some tourist areas
to the highway network and the elimination of some bottlenecks in the trunk network to reduce
traffic congestion and improve road safety, both matters of concern in the present situation. At
present, the Government is financing the widening to four separate lanes of the Duarte highway
between Santo Domingo and Santiago (the two largest cities in the country), at a cost of about
RD$3,000 million (US$234 million) and starting the reconstruction of about 300 km of the
highway bordering Haiti, between Montecristi, in the north, and Jimani, in the south. The
reconstruction of this highway, which is strategically very important, will also improve access to
rural markets in a region of the country with high incidence of poverty.
1.18  Network Condition. The most recent information on the network condition (Table 1.3)
indicates that 81% of the paved highways (3,831 km) are in good or fair condition. Out of the
19% in poor condition, 14.3% is under rehabilitation to be completed by 1997 and the remaining
4.7%, will be reconstructed under the proposed project. About 70% of the unpaved highway
network (1,222 km), is in poor condition and in need of rehabilitation or reconstruction. The
SEOPC is studying the economic feasibility of paving highways with more than 150 vehicles per
day, a threshold generally accepted as generating economic rates of return of 12% and above.
Based on this criterion, the Government has already contracted paving of 189 km of the network.
Table 1.3.- Hi2hway Network (M..U, 1995) (*
- w .......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....    :: :.   g     .............. .... 08 - 
Total                  5053   2118      42  1359   27   1576   31
Paved**                3831   2118      55   992   26       721   19
Unpaved                1222              0   367   30    855   70
Trunk Network          1147    702      61   329   29    116   10
Paved                  1147    702      61   329   29    116   10
Secondary Network      2309    858      37   615    27    836   36
Paved                  1491    858      58   329   22    304   20
Unpaved                 818              0   286   35    532   65
Tertiary Network       1597    558      35   416   26    623   39
Paved                  1193    568      48   335   28    300   25
Unpaved                 404              0    81   20    323   80
Including urban sections in medium and small cities
** 545 Km. under rehabilitation by contract
1.19 Traffic. The average traffic volume in the highway network is: 1280 vehicles per day
(vpd) with the following distribution: 2,650 vpd in highways with pavement of asphalt or cement
concrete (2,108 krm); 370 vpd in highways with surface treatments (1,723 km); and 193 vpd in
unpaved highways (1,222 km). About 15% of the vehicles are trucks in all surfaces. Traffic
growth in the period 1986-1994 was respectively 3.9%, 2.6% and insignificant per year. These
figures show a network with medium-high traffic as an average, which is consistent with the size,
economic activity, population and relatively short travel distances (125 km on average).



-6 -
1.20 Axle Loads. Maximum axle loads were established in 1976 at 13,000 kg for single axles
(four wheels) and 19,500 kg for tandem axles (eight wheels), with a provision for a reduction of
these maxima for axles with fewer wheels. The limits are high compared to those in other Latin
American countries, but are consistent with Bank sponsored research in developing countries,
which shows that the optimum for the economy as a whole is set in the range 12-13 tons for
single axles. To control vehicle axle loads, the ongoing loan 3350-DO finances construction of
permanent weighing stations and acquisition of additional mobile weighing scales, which are
starting to operate. On the other hand, the number of two-axle trucks, the most generally
overloaded and damaging to the pavements, is decreasing at a rate of 1 .1% per year, while the
number of multiple axle-trucks is increasing, as a consequence of the exemption by the
Government of some tariffs for this type of truck.
1.21  Road Administration. Planning, engineering, construction and maintenance of roads are
the responsibility of the SEOPC. Those tasks are performed by four directorates: planning
(Direcci6n General de Planeamiento y Programaci6n-DGPP), engineering (Direcci6n General de
Carreteras-DGC), construction (Direcci6n General de Fiscalizaci6n de Obras-DGFO) and
maintenance (Direcci6n General de Mantenimiento-DGM). In addition, there is a department for
policies and preparation of bidding documents (Direcci6n de Reglamentos y Sistemas-DRS)
another for management of external resources (Direcci6n de Administraci6n de Recursos
Externos-DARE) and a legal advisor, reporting directly to the Secretary of State. The Advisor to
the Secretary of State is the General Coordinator for the implementation of projects with external
financing. He is assisted by a local consultant in the case of the Fifth Highway Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (FHRNP - Loan 3350-DO). Details of the structure of the road
administration are included in Annex 3.
1.22  The quality of SEOPC's engineers is reasonable, although better pay in the private sector
resulted in the past in high staff tumover. To prevent this, the SEOPC allows to skilled staff
outside employment after working hours as a supplement of their salaries. This solution, while
successful in retaining staff, cannot be considered satisfactory because sometimes is difficult to
separate in time and content both activities, so reducing the quality and capacity of that staff for
carrying out his official activities. Therefore, the mentioned solution should be provisional until a
civil service reform and/or a road agency is implemented, allowing to pay skilled staff competitive
salaries with those in the private sector.
1.23  Environmental Management. The Department for the Control of Earth Excavation
(DCCT), the environmental unit within the SEOPC, was established by law in 1971. The DCCT
is responsible for monitoring environmental pollution and entrusted with protecting the ecology
and environment through prevention of indiscriminate excavation. Its specific tasks are the
following: (i) regulate excavation permits to prevent indiscriminate excavation and destruction of
agricultural areas, beaches and rivers; (ii) document environmental implications of every request
for excavation; and (iii) monitor earth excavation works after permits are issued and stop
excavation works which are improperly executed and impose fines on violators.
1.24  At present, SEOPC's capability to address environmental issues associated with roads and
other transport projects is weak. The DCCT has not fully developed the capabilities and technical
experience to effectively address environmental concerns in the sector and is understaffed and



- 7 -
without a clear role in the day-to-day environmental functions within SEOPC. An Action Plan for
strengthening the DCCT was agreed during project appraisal, which includes: (i) technical
assistance to implement proposed functions and procedures; (ii) special studies such as an
ecological sensitivity map for road infrastructure; (iii) equipment including vehicles, computers,
and geographical information systems; and (iv) training program for the DCCT. The proposed
project would support this Action Plan (see para. 2.6, d), which is also supported by the IDB
Rural Roads Project .
1.25  The new environmental responsibilities of the DCCT would also include the following:
(i) advising the SEOPC on environmental concerns in the transport sector; (ii) incorporating
environmental objectives into feasibility and design studies; (iii) establishing environmental
policies and procedures for road and other transport projects; (iv) ensuring compliance with the
Environmental Manual for Road designers and Contractors prepared during project preparation
(see para. 2.7); (v) ensuring that all bidding documents and contracts contain the appropriate
environmental conditions; (vi) monitoring environmental factors and maintaining a database; (vii)
keeping appropriate records of the costs associated with monitoring and training activities of the
Unit; (viii) designing and maintaining the records based on which the quarterly and annual reports
would be prepared; and (ix) establishing basic internal administrative controls on the activities and
follow-up of the consulting work. The SEOPC will provide the necessary funds in the budget to
operate the strengthened DCCT.
1.26 Budget. The SEOPC budget is approved annually by the Congress. Budget allocations
to the transport sector have varied between 12% and 20% of total Government expenditures in
the period 1989-94. While this aggregate level was reasonable, insufficient funds were allocated
to routine maintenance. This was due to the emphasis put on the reconstruction and rehabilitation
programs. Since these programs are well advanced, in the future expenditures will be reallocated
in favor of road maintenance and stricter application of economic criteria for the selection of road
investments.
1.27  Construction Industry. Construction is being carried out by contractors, both local and
foreign, frequently in joint- ventures. In the past, most government contracts were awarded to
private contractors who did not have adequate experience nor the capacity to carry out the works
at adequate standards. Prequalification of contractors and packaging of contracts comprising 50
km or more, introduced under Loan 3350-DO, have substantially contributed to speed-up
completion, improve quality and enhance competition, leading to satisfactory implementation of
civil works. Furthermore, the contractors of the works under that loan have become fully
familiarized with Bank's bidding requirements and documents for contraction of civil works. The
Loan 3350-DO also finances a study on the local construction industry (including local branches
of foreign firms) and its capacity with respect to the implementation of the proposed project. The
study, once completed, will be incorporated into the Project File. A preliminary report shows that
the capacity is far enough to carry out the SEOPC's investment and maintenance programs during
the project period.
1.28  Private Sector Participation. Public/private partnerships in the road sector has been
successfully practiced to finance some access to tourist areas mostly in the eastern coast, which is
the most important tourist development pole in the country. Legislation is being prepared to



- 8 -
make possible a new form of public/private partnership in the road sector (concessions of
construction, maintenance and operation of toll roads, bridges and tunnels and other related
infrastructure to the private sector under BOT or BOO schemes). Once this legislation is
approved, it is expected that future major investments in high traffic highways will be financed
with a substantial contribution by the private sector. A preliminary study of widening the highway
Santo Domingo-Las Americas Airport-San Pedro de Macoris, which links the capital with its
international airport, the third port in the country and the most developed tourist area, and
subsequent maintenance by toll road concession is being financed under the Loan 3350-DO. The
proposed project would finance a similar study for the Santo Domingo San Cristobal-Bani
highway (para. 2.6).
1.29 Operations and Maintenance. The entire network is publicly owned and operated, but
all construction works (including new construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation) and all
programmable periodic maintenance for the highway network are contracted to the private sector.
This policy, combined with effective supervision by independent consulting firms and the major
effort of the Government in recent years to rehabilitate the highway network has resulted in
substantial improvement in the network condition. Nevertheless, as part of the proposed project
monitoring, reporting and supervision plan, the project would introduce engineering (technical)
auditing. This is an innovation to ensure consistency in work supervision, develop capacity within
the SEOPC to monitor work quality, evaluate the results of the introduction of routine
maintenance by contract and support annual and midterm reviews of the physical performance of
the project.
1.30 Maintenance has been traditionally carried out by the SEOPC under force account. The
implementation of Loan 3350-DO initiated a change in this practice and now periodic
maintenance for the highway network is contracted out. Routine maintenance planning and
control has substantially improved under technical assistance financed under the ongoing Loan
3350-DO. However, routine maintenance execution continues to be carried out by force account.
The proposed project includes a pilot program to introduce routine maintenance by contract and
to foster contracting out 100% of all programmable maintenance by year 2001 (see Table 1.4).
Under this pilot program, small enterprises will be encouraged to participate in maintenance with
SEOPC's equipment rented by the contractors, if necessary. Emergency works will continue to
be carried out mostly by force account. The increase in maintenance by contract will also allow a
substantial reduction in the number of SEOPC unskilled staff (see Annex 3).
Table 1.4.- Maintenance Execution (1996-2001)
Year _____   }                                               'RD ...  iM$.
1996        0.0            0.-    4,870.7     89,590,669    4,870.7     89,590,669
1997    1,000.0      17,111,546   3,902.7     63,099,799    4,902.7     80,211,245
1998    2,000.0     32,075,712    3,054.7     44806,722    5,054.7      76 882 434
1999    3,000.0     47,240,226    2,051.7     29,812,770    5,051.7     77,052,996
2000    4,000.0       60,389627    1,052.7    15,021,533    5,052.7     75 411,160
2001     5,059.7     74,679,165        2/      4374,122    5,059.7      79,053,287
1/ Values in 1995 RDS (lUSt=12.5 RD$)
2/ Only emergencies with the assistance of small contractors.



-9 -
1.31  Highway Investment Plan. The SEOPC has prepared a four-year (1997-2000) Highway
Investment Plan (HIP), which will be annually reviewed and agreed with the Bank, including the
following programs: (i) reconstruction or rehabilitation of the highways that will remain in
deteriorated condition at the end of 1996 and need rehabilitation or reconstruction; (ii) widening
of some sections with high traffic volumes and high rate of accidents; (iii) construction of bridges
and by-passes of some cities, to eliminate bottlenecks and improve road safety; and (iv)
completion of the widening to four divided lanes of the Duarte (Santo Domingo-Santiago)
highway, under construction with government financing. The total cost of those programs is
about US$325 million, of which the Government will finance US$250 million, or US$62.5
rnillion per year, which is in line with the amounts spent in the last ten years. The proposed project
will help the Government to finance the first three programs.
1.32 Maintenance Programs. Maintenance planing has been practiced since 1990, allowing
the SEOPC to prepare annual maintenance budgets, based on measures of expected work
performance. Prior to that time, the budgets approved have been in accordance with those
proposed by the DGM, but the amounts finally spent were below the approved ones and there
was no control on the activities in which they were actually spent. The situation has substantially
improved since the beginning of the implementation of the Maintenance Management System
(MMS) under technical assistance financed by the ongoing Loan 3350-DO, which is starting to
produce positive results.
1.33 During the preparation of the proposed project, the Highway Maintenance Programs for
1997-2000 were prepared, with the assistance of the consultants implementing the MMS. A
summary of those programs is presented in Annex 3. The programs were prepared considering a
level of maintenance defined by a set of quantity standards with modifying factors according to
pavement condition, surface type, climatic regions, pavement age and policies (e.g. manual or
mechanical execution). The length of the network considered under maintenance each year was
the total of the highway network, excluding the part of the network in reconstruction during the
project period. The highways under reconstruction were included in the program of routine the
first year after completing their reconstruction and in the program of periodic maintenance after
four years.
1.34 The total maintenance budget for 1997-2000 is US$51 million, of which US$24 million is
for routine maintenance and US$27 million for periodic maintenance. One pilot program for
routine maintenance by contract and one program for highway resurfacing with new technologies,
introduced under Loan 3350-DO, have been prepared with selected works from the maintenance
programs and would be financed by the proposed project.
1.35  Road Financing and User Charges. Traditionally, all vehicles collectively have
generated more than sufficient revenues to finance road maintenance and rehabilitation. The main
source of those revenues has been taxes on petroleum products (91% of the total) and import
duties for vehicles and parts (7.5%). During the 1980s, because of a lag in adjusting the prices of
gasoline and diesel, those revenues totaled only RD$14 million in 1989, significantly less than the
RD$60 million required just for highway maintenance and rehabilitation. The situation was
drastically reversed in 1990 with the Government raising the price of fuel products leading to their



- 10-
1995 level of RD$13.50 (US$1.04) per gallon of diesel and RD$20 (US$1.54) for gasoline. At
this level, revenues from the fuel taxes amount to about US$300 million per year and are four
times the total annual road expenditures for construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and
maintenance in the next five years (about US$75 million per year).
1.36 Road Fund. The maintenance expenditures will stabilize at around US$13 million per
year when the whole highway network is in good condition and all programmable maintenance is
contracted in year 2001. Rehabilitation needs will stabilize at around US$17 million, an amount
substantially lower than in the past seven years. To ensure that adequate funds will be allocated
to maintain and rehabilitate the highway network, making sustainable the gains achieved under
previous operations (particularly under Loan 3350-DO), the FHRMP has assisted the SEOPC in
designing and implementing a dedicated road fund with an initial provision of around US$30
million equivalent per year, including salaries and administrative and operational expenses. The
proceeds of a road tariff, consisting of vehicle license fees, road tolls and a levy from the current
price of fuel, would be deposited into the road fund to be implemented during the project period.
Once the road fund is operative, it could also be progressively expanded to cover rural and urban
road expenditures for roads already rehabilitated or reconstructed.
1.37 The rationale for introducing the Road Fund is based more on the need to reinforce the
political independence of the resources for road maintenance and incorporate the oversight of
users over the timely application of those resources, rather than to generate the funds needed for
road maintenance and rehabilitation. These funds already come from the revenues collected from
fuel taxes and therefore, the implementation of the Fund will not have fiscal implications nor will
divert revenues from other purposes; it will just redirect the funds from the general budget to the
Fund. In that respect, drafting and passing the legislation to establish the Road Fund is as
important as defining the road tariffs, mechanisms for road users participation, cost accounting
methods and other technical details that will make the fund work or fail in the long run. In
addition, developing a constituency for road maintenance--already taking place as the
reconstruction program is completed and contracting out of maintenance works expands--will be
formalized through their participation in the Road Fund. The manner to incorporate this
constituency, the mechanisms for the functioning of the Road Fund, the composition and the level
or resources to be incorporated into it, and the necessary legislation, are all part of the technical
assistance financed by the FHRMP (see Annex 3).
1.38 Road Agency. The road fund would be managed by a new road agency to be called
"Oficina Nacional de Mantenimiento Vial" (ONMV), which would ensure: (i) an effective
organization structure and reporting requirements; (ii) adequate staffing, with competitive
salaries; and, (iii) adequate internal systems/controls and streamlined procedures. The ONMV
would be managed by a representative board of management, including representatives from the
public and private sectors and road users . The aim of a representative board of management is to
win public support for the necessary road spending and to ensure that funds are spent in line with
perceived needs of users and beneficiaries. The proposed project would support the
implementation of both the road fund and the agency (see para. 2.6, d). Although the intention is
to establish the fund and the agency under a new legal framework, it may prove feasible to
establish them under existing administrative procedures within the current legal framework. The
new legislation or the existing administrative procedures should provide for: (i) the creation of a



road fund which will finance the cost of maintenance and rehabilitation of roads within the
Borrower's road network; and (ii) the creation of a new road entity (ONMV) which will operate
such financing mechanism.
PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT IN TBE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.39 Previous Bank Experience. The Bank's past involvement in the road transport sub-
sector dates back to 1973, when it acted as the executing agency for the UNDP-financed
Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study. Between 1976 and 1985, three highway
projects were financed under Bank loans, totaling US$65 million, to improve the condition of
some 320 km, or about six percent of the highway network. Those projects were: the First Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project; the Emergency Road Reconstruction Project; and the
Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project.
1.40 In 1986 the fourth operation, the Third Road Reconstruction Project (Loan 2609-DO,
US$35.8 million) was approved. It provided financing for: reconstruction of 150 km of highways
that were started under Loan 1784-DO, and about 60 km of other high-priority highways;
purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts; consulting services for construction
supervision; a transport planning study; and assistance in training the pavement division staff of
DGPP and in organizing workshops and stores. Generally, the project was executed as planned
and completed on December 31, 1993. Annex 4 provides details on the implementation of these
four operations.
1.41  Lessons Learned. In general, the projects' scope was appropriate for the country's needs,
but their implementation was beset by problems which delayed their completion. Most of the
roads were finished almost on schedule. However, the completion of some reconstruction works
took longer than originally scheduled. In retrospect, the problems with these roads could have
been avoided had more attention been given during project preparation to avoid repetition of
problems previously experienced by the SEOPC, namely, starting project implementation with
inadequately prepared engineering and bidding documents, deficient planning and programming
for the execution of the road works initially included in the project, and inappropriate awarding of
works to unqualified contractors.
1.42  The lessons learned confirm that to ensure successful implementation of Bank's projects it
is necessary, during the project preparation stage, to emphasize the need for uncompromising
quality of engineering designs and bidding documents, and contracting qualified contractors and
consultants. Other issues which should have been addressed concerned the Borrower's sense of
ownership of some project components (in particular planning studies) and its commitment to
support and achieve the agreed project objectives for those components by providing the required
human and financial resources and logistic support. On the other hand, the Third Road
Reconstruction Project, demonstrated in its second half of implementation, the benefit of
maintaining an open and productive dialogue with the Borrower, which resulted in a more
intensive involvement of SEOPC's higher level staff in the execution of the project, facilitating the
project's successful implementation.



- 12 -
1.43  Ongoing Project. The Fifth Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan 3350-
DO, US$79 million, 1991) was declared effective on December 2, 1992. The project comprises:
(a) rehabilitation of about 830 km of roads and supervision of these works; (b) a technology
transfer program on pavements, including technical assistance and civil works; (c) bridge and
workshop rehabilitation; (d) equipment rehabilitation; (e) acquisition of road signaling materials,
maintenance equipment and scales for vehicle weight control; and (f) technical assistance for
training, road maintenance management, an urban transport study, a local construction industry
study and engineering services for road design.
1.44 Past lessons learned have helped to ensure successful implementation. Prequalification of
contractors and bidding documents were agreed at negotiations; International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures were applied to all civil works of the road rehabilitation program;
engineering designs and bidding documents were prepared well in advance of the bidding process;
and the open dialogue with the Borrower continued. As a result, procurement is already
completed; the contract for the pavement technology transfer program (a major component) and
technical assistance in highway management are satisfactorily underway; compliance with loan
covenants and the Action Plan is acceptable; and about 75% of the loan is already disbursed.
1.45 However, the proceeds of the Loan will only reach to finance about 70% of the highway
length originally programmed to be rehabilitated. The main reasons for this reduction are cost
increases for civil works, due to higher unit costs and the additional road deterioration that took
place since the project was appraised and, above all, the upgrade of most of the works from
rehabilitation to reconstruction. On the other hand, the SEOPC rehabilitated more than 900 km in
the same period with local funds, which is more than the length finally not financed by the loan.
The technology transfer program, a single component and the biggest contract of the project
(including about 500 kms of highway resurfacing) is being implemented as planned and within the
resources allocated in the Loan. The Loan Closing Date, December 31, 1996, was extended to
December 31, 1997 on November 4, 1996 to allow completion of already advanced contracts.
2. THE PROJECT
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
2.1   Completion of the modernization of the highway network and removal of important
bottlenecks in the highway network are essential to the development of the major sources of
economic growth (tourism, industries in the free trade zones and small service enterprises).
2.2   Maintenance neglect between 1980 and 1986 led to a badly deteriorated road network,
which could only be corrected by rehabilitation or reconstruction. The first step in that direction
was the reconstruction program financed by Loan 2609-DO (para. 1.40). Reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the highway network has continued, financed by the Government with local funds
and by Loan 3350-DO. This loan (para. 1.43) also extensively introduced periodic maintenance
by contract, a program of pavement technology transfer and technical assistance in maintenance
management, setting the grounds for a solid maintenance environment and preventing the
repetition of the mistakes in the past.



- 13 -
2.3   As a result of the investments in reconstruction and rehabilitation during the past seven
years, the highway network condition has improved to the point that, when the ongoing project is
completed, only 169 km of paved highways will remain in poor condition and need rehabilitation.
At present, with no significant new construction required, with the exception of a few links to
connect some tourist areas to the highway network, the emphasis has to be put in: (a) eliminating
bottlenecks in the trunk network (widening some sections that are insufficient for the high traffic
volumes they carry, and replacing some bridges and urban sections with insufficient geometric and
structural conditions); (b) completing the reconstruction of the highway network; (c)
consolidating the important technical and institutional gains achieved under previous operations
(particularly under Loan 3350-DO); and (d) ensuring sustainability of investments made with the
support of this and past Bank loans, avoiding the repetition of past mistakes, particularly
maintenance neglect. The necessary actions to achieve all these goals require sustained support to
the SEOPC and this is the origin and justification of the proposed project, preparation of which
was initiated in November 1994, with resources ofthe Loan 3350-DO. After this project, no new
Bank's loans should be necessary to finance direct investment in the highway network. Future
projects may include support for private financing of new links in the highway network,
institutional development of the future road agency and measures to improve urban transport in
major cities.
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.4   The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented
to the Board on April 4, 1995. The CAS emphasize the importance of supporting the
Government's rehabilitation and reform program to refurbish infrastructure and foster private
sector development. The project would play an important role in removing bottlenecks to the
main engines of development growth, tourism and free trade zones. It is also in line with the
Government's strategy in the transport sector that has so far focused on reconstruction and
maintenance of key links of the highway network. Improvements in maintenance management and
consolidation of new pavement technologies introduced under the FHMRP would also be pursued.
The benefits from the rehabilitation works would be maintained in the long term by assuring a
well-executed maintenance program and setting up a dedicated organization to efficiently plan and
carry out the program. This program would be totally contracted out by the end of the project period,
under procedures and guidelines established before project effectiveness with technical assistance
provided by the ongoing project. Achieving all those objectives requires continuing Bank assistance.
Furthermore, the dialogue between the Government and the Bank during the implementation of the
two previous loans and the preparation of this project have resulted in stronger emphasis on
maintenance and institutional development, and this should also be continued.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.5   The proposed project has two broad objectives, equally important:
The first objective is to improve transport sector s contribution to the development of major
sources of growth, and improve access to markets. This will be achieved by eliminating
bottlenecks in the trunk network, continuing the reconstruction of the paved highway network
and improving safety.



- 14-
The second objective is to consolidate the gains in the institutional capacity of the SEOPC
under Loan 3350-DO to maintain the road network in a stable condition without confinual
donor support and enforce new pracftces andpolicies started under that loan. This will be
achieved by: (a) strengthening the capacity to implement maintenance programs; (b) improving
the quality of pavements using the technologies transferred under the FBIRP; (c) introducing
routine maintenance and signalization by contract and strengthening the domestic private
construction industry, (d) implementing a road fund managed by a new road agency (ONMV)
that will ensure adequate and timely release of funds to carry out maintenance programs, and
(e) strengthening budgeting, accounting and auditing procedures.
The project would also support the capacity of the Government to establish the strategy for
further development of tourist poles, private sector participation in highway financing and
urban infrastructure plans in major cities.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.6   To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project finances a program of civil works,
and a program of institutional strengthening, including the acquisition of some vehicles and office
equipment, consulting services and training. Both programs are essential to the project because a
small project on institutional strengthening would be scarcely attractive to the Borrower and
would not guarantee the completion of the programs financed under previous loans. On the
contrary, without the institutional strengthening component would be difficult to ensure the
sustainability of the gains, both physical and institutional, achieved so far. Therefore, the project
consists of the following components:
Under the program of civil works:
(a)   Civil Works
i)  Widening eisting highway sections to four divided lanes (28.3 km in total to eliminate
congestion in some highway sections with high-volume traffic (about 10,000 and more
vehicles per day) and high percentage of trucks (over 20%). The following sections will be
included in this component: Santiago-Navarrete, in the Duarte highway (20.3 km); Santo
Domingo-San Isidro, in the Mella highway (6.3 km); and Bajos de Haina-Acceso Refineria
in the Sanchez highway (1.7 km). The list and cost for these works are given in Annex 5,
Table A5.1A. The corresponding engineering designs and economic analysis have already
been completed.
ii) Construcdon of three new bridges (564m in total) and deck widening of an eing one
(102 m), where existing bridges are bottlenecks in the network. The three new bridges are
the following: a) over the Bani River (150 m), in the city of Bani, in the Sanchez highway,
b) over the Higuarno River (261 m), in the city of San Pedro de Macoris, in the east coast
highway; and c) over the Dulce River (153 m), in the city of La Romana in the east coast
highway. The deck widening corresponds to the bridge over the Yaque del Norte River
(102 m) in Montecristi. The list and cost for these bridges are given in Annex 5, Table
A5. 1B. The second and third new bridges mentioned above will be completed with new



- 15 -
sections of highways to by-pass the cities La Romana (8.0 km) and San Pedro de Macoris
(12.3 kmn). The bridge in Bani will be completed with the corresponding accesses and the
improvement of the existing urban section (3.7 km in total). Preliminary engineering
designs and economic analysis have been completed. Final engineering designs are being
prepared.
iii) Reconstruction of 169 km of the highway network. The list of the highways included is
given in Annex 5, Table A5. IC. The SEOPC will annually review the list with the Bank
and any modification or addition will be done only after obtaining the Bank's approval. The
corresponding engineering designs and economic analysis have been completed.
iv) A program of highway resurfacing that includes 628 km of highways to be resurfaced
using new pavement technologies implemented under loan 3350-DO. The list of the
highways included is given in Annex 5, Table A5.2. The SEOPC will annually review the
list with the Bank and any modification or addition will be done only after obtaining the
Bank's approval.
v) A pilotprogram of routine maintenance by contract on 640 km (13% of the network)
(Annex 5, Table A5.3) selected from the maintenance programs for 1997-2000 detailed in
Annex 3. Routine maintenance of the rest of the network will be contracted out by year
2001 (para. 1.30). The programs have been agreed with the Borrower during negotiations.
Agreement was also reached that, by September of each year, the SEOPC will update,
satisfactorily to the Bank, the maintenance programs, list of highways in the pilot program
and budget for highway maintenance for the next fiscal year, and by March 31 of each year,
will report to the Bank the actual budget, by category of expenditure, spent for
maintenance in the preceding fiscal year
vi) A road signalization program by contract (see details in Annex 5, Table A5.4) that
includes informative signals for connection among roads, itineraries for some destinations,
tourist locations and road services provided to the users. At present, this type of
information is almost nonexistent.
(b) Civil Work Supervision and Technical Auditing
vii) Supervision of civil works, including technical auditing for widening, reconstruction
and rehabilitation of highways and construction of bridges financed by the project. These
tasks will be carried out by independent consultants funded by the project to provide
quality control and ensure compliance with bid specifications. The highway resurfacing,
routine maintenance and signalization programs will be supervised by the DGCCV staff
trained under technical assistance financed by the loan 3350-DO. (Terms of reference for
supervision are included in Annex 6.1, and for technical audits in Annex 10).
Under the program of institutional strengthening:
(c) Acquisition of Goods
viii) Acquisition of vehicles, spare parts and office equipment. Acquisition of all terrain
vehicles to facilitate design and supervision of the highway resurfacing and maintenance
programs; spare parts for operation of the existing maintenance equipment; all terrain
vehicles and office equipment (desk-top computers, printers and photocopy machines).



- 16 -
(d)   Consulting Services and Training
ix) Consulting servicesfor a technical assistanceprogram consisting of:
(a) coordination of project implementation (para. 3.1); (b) assistance in the use of
maintenance systems, in the preparation and monitoring of maintenance contracts, and in
implementing a road fund to be managed by a road agency (Annex 6.2); (c) advise and
training in financial management and intemal performance audits (Annex 6.3); (d)
strengthen the environmental unit of the SEOPC (Annex 6.4); (e) establishing a data base
on highway accident statistics (Annex 6.5); f) preparation of future investment programs
in the transport sector (Annex 6.6); (g) preparation of a development plan of the
northwestem region, including feasibility and environmental impact studies and
preliminary engineering design of basic infrastructure; (h) preparation of a highway
development plan for the eastern coastal region; (i) preparation of a drainage and
sanitation plan in the city of Santo Domingo to complement the urban transport study
financed by the 3350-DO loan (Annex 6.7); and (j) preparation of a feasibility study of the
widening to four lanes and subsequent maintenance for concession of the Santo Domingo-
San Crist6bal-Bani highway (Annex 6.8).
ENVIRONmENTAL ASSESSMENT
2.7    Most physical improvements under the project consist of the rehabilitation or
reconstruction of existing facilities and, therefore, direct environmental impacts on natural systems
and right-of-ways will be of less importance. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study
was carried out by a group of national and international consultants, financed under Loan 3350-
DO. The final EIA report was delivered before appraisal. A summary of the EIA is included in
Annex 7. The main conclusions of the study are: (i) the proposed works will have little to
moderate environmental impacts. All possible impacts have been identified and appropriate
mitigation measures have been proposed and incorporated in project design; all measures in turn
will be included in all bidding documents and construction contracts as well as supervision
activities. A summary matrix of environrnental impacts and mitigation measures for each sub-
project is presented in Attachments to Annex 7; and (ii) no significant resettlement would be
required under the project. As a result, the project has been environmentally rated "B". Finally,
an Environmental Manual for Road Design and Construction (Project File) has been prepared and
will be adopted by SEOPC before project effectiveness. The purpose of this manual is to establish
specific rules for minimizing environmental damage during the construction and rehabilitation of
roads. Nevertheless:
(a)   in the event that population resettlement is needed to carry out any subproject, the
Borrower shall not later than the date in which it furnishes to the Bank the
corresponding Highway Investment and Maintenance Program in which such
subproject is included: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank a resettlement plan for
such population satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) thereafter carry out such plan in
accordance with its terms;
(b)   in the event that the final engineering designs of a subproject require acquisition of
land therefor, the Borrower shall not later than the date in which it furnishes to the
Bank the corresponding Highway Investment and Maintenance Program in which



- 17-
such subproject is included: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, a land acquisition
plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) thereafter carry out such plan in accordance
with its terms.
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
2.8   The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$122.5 million
equivalent. Of this amount, US$75 million (61.2%), would be financed by the Bank. The Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) has shown interest in financing the consulting services (e) to (h) in
para. 2.6 (d) above, at a cost of, US$3.0 million, or 2.5% of the total project cost. A final
decision by the NDF is expected in March 1997. The remaining US$44.5 million (36.3%), an
average of US$11.1 million per year, would be financed by the Government. The loan will
finance the foreign exchange component for civil works, equipment and the institutional
strengthening program. If the NDF does not finally cofinance the project, the corresponding
subcomponents would be financed with funds from the unallocated category, if they are available.
Those subcomponents although linked to the project objectives are not essential to them. Table
2.1 summarizes the project cots and the loan financing plan.
2.9   Project cost estimates are based on: (a) final engineering for the civil works included in the
highway rehabilitation, widening and resurfacing programs; (b) preliminary engineering and cost
estimates (obtained from the up-dated costs of past similar works) for the new highway and
bridges and the signalization program; (c) published suppliers' prices for vehicles, spare parts and
office equipment; and, (d) prevailing fees for consulting services. The costing was done in foreign
currency equivalent, so any realignment of the exchange rate will not affect the total project cost
in dollars.
2.10  Provision for physical contingencies has been adopted at a rate of 10% of the base price
for highway construction, widening, rehabilitation and resurfacing and for bridge construction.
Physical contingencies are estimated at US$ 8.3 million. Provision for price escalation is based
on Bank projections of price index variations for road and bridge-related manufactured goods.
The rate used is 3% for the period 1997-2001. Price contingencies total US$11.0 million
equivalent.
2.11 During negotiations an agreement was reached that the Government will earmark the
project counterpart funds in its investment plan for the period 1997-2001 (calendar years,
Borrower's fiscal years) as follows: 1997 - US$9.0 million; 1998 - US$9.5 million; 1999 -
US$9.5 million; 2000 - US$9.5 million and, 2001 - US$7.0 million.
2.12  Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure that, starting in 2000, the maintenance budgets will
be totally funded without external financing. For this purpose, the Borrower, by December 31,
1998, will prepare and initiate action for the adoption of the instruments necessary to establish the
Road Fund and the new road agency (ONMV). Furthermore, at the time of the project mid-term
review or earlier, the Road Fund and the new road agency (ONMV) will be substantially
operating (see paras. 1.36, 1.37, and 1.38). Adequate remedies are provided in the Loan
Agreement, in case the Fund and the Agency are not operative at that time.



- 18 -
Table 2.1 - Summary of Costs (US$ million)
Civil Works
(a) Highway Widening (Four Divided Lanes, 28.3 km)        6.3      14.7       21.0         70
(b) Bndge and Highway By-pass Construction                4.9      11.4       16.3         70
3 New Bndges: 564 m
1 Bndge Widening: from 5.0 m to 7.40 m
2 By-passes of Cities: 20.3 km; access to Bani 3.7 km
(c) Highway Rehabilitation (169 km)                      11.3      17.0       28.3         60
(d) Highway Resurfacing Using New Technologies            8.4       8.4       16.8         50
Total length: 628 km
(e) Pilot four-year Program of Routine Maintenance        2.7       2.7        5.4         50
by Contract (640 km)
(f) Road Signalization by Contract                        0.3       0.7        1.0         70
Civil Work Supervision
(g) Supervision and Technical Auditing of CMI Works       2.6       3.8        6.4         60
Applied to Components (a), (b) and (c)
Goods
(h) Vehicles, Spare Parts and Office Equipment            0.1       1.1        1.2         90
Consulting Services
(i) Institutional Strengthening and Studies               0.8       6.0        6.8          1
Project Base Cost                                        37.4      65.8      103.2         64
Continaencies
Physical (10% of a, b, c, and d)                       3.1       5.2        8.3         62
Prce Scalation                                         4.0       7.0       11.0         64
Total Continen  Costs                                     7.       12.2       19.3         63
Financina Plan
Dominican Government                                     44.5               36.3%
IBRD                                                     75.0              61.2%
NOF                                                       3.0                2.5%
EcoNoMIc EVALUATION
2.13   An economic analysis was performed during project preparation for most of the physical
components of the project, namely the widening of 28.3 km, the construction of four bridges
ong with 20.3 km of bypasses of cities, the deck widening of an existing bridge, the
construction of about 169 km of higlhways, and a highway resurfacing program of 628 km of
primary roads. These activities comprise 80% of the total base project cost. The economic
evaluation of these components shows a combined economic internal rate of return of 24.5
US$4.0 million financed 80% by IBRD's funds and 20% by the Dominican Government.
US$2.8 million financed 100% by the Nordic Fund.



- 19-
percent. Table 2.2 summarizes the costs and economic internal rates of return (ELRRs) of the
project components. No costs or benefits have been quantified for the routine maintenance
program by contract, road signalization, equipment acquisition, institutional development, training
and technical assistance activities. Annex 8 details the base information, methodologies, and
results for the economic analyses of the various project sub-components.
Table 2.2 - Summary of Econondc Evaluation
.........k4......
Component A. Highway Widening   21.0         20.3%        14.8
Component B: Bridge/Bypass Construction  16.3  17.0%       5.8
Component C: Highway Reconstruction  28.3   25.6%         28.1
Component D: Highway Resurfacing  16 8       36.6%        50.6
Combined Total    82.44        24.5%        99.3
* For those components already evaluated
2.14   The economic analysis of the highway-widening component was undertaken with the
application of the new version of the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (1995
HDM System), which incorporates capacity constraints into the analysis of rehabilitation
strategies. The three roads under consideration--Santiago-Navarrete, Bajos de Haina-Refineria,
and Santo Domingo-San Isidro--present average daily traffics of 9, 000 to 16,500 vehicles. The
roads are already congested and would become more so if no expansion of the capacity of the
roads is undertaken, severely increasing vehicle operating costs and time-related costs. In the
economic analysis, normal traffic is assumed to grow at a conservative annual rate of around 3
percent; for the widening alternative, it has assumed an additional generated traffic of 10 percent.
The value of time for those traveling on private cars is estimated to be 9.0 RD$ per hour,
representing 50 percent of the prorated value of a mix of passengers consisting of: (a) 70 percent,
low income (6.7 RD$ per hour, the minimum wage); (b) 20 percent, middle income (33.3 RD$
per hour); and (c) 10 percent, high income (66.6 RD$ per hour). For those traveling on buses,
the value of time is assumed to be 2.0 RD$ per hour, representing a conservative assumption of
30 percent of the minimum wage. The estimated costs and EIRRs for the corresponding sub-
components are included in Tables A8.1 and A8.3 of Annex 8, and all of them are 18% and
above.
2.15   Sensitivity analyses performed for each of the three sub-projects of the highway widening
component, to test variations in the EIRRs show (Annex 8) that the EIRRs remain above 15
percent in the event that costs increase by 20 percent or the benefits decrease by 20 percent.
2.16   The bridge construction program comprises the construction of three new bridges, the
deck widening of an existing one and two new bypasses of cities. Currently, one of the three
bridges (Higuamo river) to be replaced is in danger of collapsing and in all instances of bypasses
the roads transverse congested urban areas. The benefits from this program are associated with
savings in vehicle operating costs and in travel time for the users who select to use the new roads,
considering the same value in time than in the case of the highway widening component. The
economic analysis of the bridge reconstruction program also incorporates benefits that would
accrue from the reduction of future bridge maintenance costs and the additional costs associated
with the maintenance of the new bypasses, but it does not include the benefits to the users who



- 20 -
select to continue to use the existing roads. The three new bridges--Higuamo, Bani, and Dulce--
are on heavily trafficked highways, with average daily traffic over 2000 vehicles per day. The
fourth bridge involves only deck widening and it is on a road with a medium traffic volume of
800 vehicles per day. The construction of the bridges and the corresponding bypasses would
divert long distance traffic from existing highways. The diversion rate is estimated to vary
between 35 and 50 percent, depending on the difference between the generalized value of travel
cost across the existing and the proposed roads. Normal traffic is expected to grow at an average
annual rate of 3 around percent. Traffic generation was considered in the analysis, existing traffic
will probably increase by 10 to 25 percent, as a consequence of the faster speed and reduced
travel times brought about by the construction of the bridges and bypasses, adding to the
calculated benefits. The likely air pollution and accident reduction benefits, particularly associated
with traffic reduction in urban areas, have not been incorporated into the analysis. Based on these
conservative assumptions, the economic analysis yields EIRRs exceeding 15 % for all the
proposed bridges and bypasses. The estimated costs and EIRRs for the corresponding sub-
components are included in Table A8.6 of Annex 8.
2.17  Sensitivity analyses were performed for each of the bridges and bypasses and for the deck
widening of the existing bridge to test variations in the EIRRs in the event that costs increase by
20 percent or the benefits decrease by 15 percent. Under these assumptions, all the EIRR for the
bridges/bypasses are above the 12% benchmark (Annex 8). Nevertheless, an agreement would
be sought at negotiations that, prior undertaking any investment, the Bank's approval will be
sought if final engineering for any road link results in cost estimates exceeding the original
estimate by more than 25 percent in dollar terms.
2.18  The economic analysis of the highway reconstruction/rehabilitation components was
carried out using the HDM. The economic analysis is based on comparing the costs and benefits
of the proposed solution with the base case of only undertaking routine maintenance on the
existing road and with other alternative rehabilitation strategies. Benefits only include those
accrued to normal traffic as a consequence of savings in vehicle operating costs; this traffic is
estimated to grow at an average annual rate of around 3 percent during the 20 years of the
analysis period. The proposed solution varies from one road to another, depending on the current
conditions of the road; it normally includes a combination of 100 percent patching, resealing of 5
mm every five years, and overlays of 40 mm every ten years. The estimated cost and ERRS for
each road link are included in Table A8.7 of Annex 8. The EIRRs vary from 14.1 percent to over
82.4%. The weighted EIRRis 21.1%
2.19  The highway resurfacing component was also analyzed using the HDM under similar
assumptions than those for the highway reconstruction component. The estimated cost and
EIRRs for each road link are included in Table A8.8 of Annex 8. As the table demonstrates, the
EIRRs vary from 13.1 % to over 150%. The weighted EIRR is 36.6%.
2.20  Sensitivity analyses were performed for all the sub-projects in the reconstruction and
resurfacing programs to test variations in the EIRRs in the event that costs increase by 10 percent
or the benefits decrease by 10 percent. In both situations the EIRRs remained above the 12
percent benchmark. In the event that costs increase by 20 percent or the benefits decrease by 20
percent the EIRR for the reconstruction of the road Boronga-Boya-Dofia Maria falls to 11.5%



- 21 -
and the EIRR for the reconstruction of the road Esperanza-Mao falls to 11.2%. These results are
acceptable and, therefore, the two links have been retained in the highway reconstruction
program. Nevertheless, an agreement would be sought at negotiations that, before undertaking
any investment, the Bank's approval will be sought if final engineering for any road link results in
cost estimates exceeding the original estimate by more than 25 percent in dollar termns.
2.21  An analysis performed to test the effects (risks) of postponing the widening and
reconstruction investments show that for all projects the net benefits are reduced if investments
are postponed by one or two years. However, the analysis shows that it would not affect the
economic worthiness of the sub-projects (see Annex 8, para. 14).
2.22  An analysis performed to test the effects (risks) of not implementing an optimal
maintenance policy, after completion of the various rehabilitation and widening works, shows that
benefits will decrease slightly if a proper maintenance program (including routine maintenance,
patching and resealing) were not timely implemented. If only a limited routine maintenance is
applied, the analysis shows that the NPV of sub-projects would decrease on average by 9 percent,
though the economic rate of return remains greater than 12 percent for all sub-projects. The
results reflect economic benefits for the proposed sub-projects that are sustained even in light of
sub-optimal maintenance policies (see Annex 8, para. 15).
2.23  The above analyses underestimate the true economic benefits of the highway programs
because they do not fully quantify the additional benefits to be derived from the environmental
benefits from smoother vehicle operation and the avoidance of congested traffic conditions with
frequent stop-and-go situations.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
2.24  Implementation of this project will ensure adequate financing and timely release of funds
in the future for maintaining the highway network in a stable condition without continual donor
support. In this respect, at the time of project midterm review, a road fund to be managed by a
new road agency (ONMV) will have been implemented. The project will also strengthen the
SEOPC's capacity to carry out road maintenance in an efficient manner, and improve management
procedures and techniques, among them contracting out of all programmable maintenance and
using new pavement technologies. Finally, the highway improvements included in the project will
help reduce the rehabilitation and maintenance work to a level where the needs can be managed
within a steady budgetary framework.
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
3.1   Operational Set-Up. The project should be completed in about four years, from mid-
1997 to mid-2001. SEOPC will act as the executing agency. General administrative coordination
and relations with the Bank will be provided by the Project Coordinator assisted by a Project
Coordinating Team (PCT), to be financed by the proposed project, and with the cooperation of
DARE, (which was established under previous Bank loans and reports directly to the Secretary of



- 22 -
Public Works), the four General Directorates (DGC, DGM, DGSFO and DGPP), DRS and
DCCT. The composition and functions of the PCT are shown in Annex 9. The establishment of
the PCT and the employment of the Project Coordinating Team will be a condition of project
effectiveness. The project will finance five local consultants of the PCT: the team head and four
professionals, in addition to the consulting services also financed by the project. The remaining
staff and operating costs, including administration office and general running costs will be
financed by the SEOPC. The staff of the PCT could be incorporated, at the end of project
implementation, into the new road agency (ONMV) to be implemented under the project (see
para. 1.38). Furthermore, not later than December 31, 1997, the SEOPC employ and thereafter
retain until completion of the project a transport specialist (with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank) to assist the SEOPC in the preparation of transport programs.
3.2   All civil works financed by the project will be carried out by contract. To expedite project
execution, civil works contracts for highway rehabilitation and resurfacing should be packaged,
wherever possible, according to their geographical location, to facilitate contractors' logistic
support activities, or the year to be tendered.
3.3   To ensure adequate quality of civil works, they will be supervised by engineering
consultants funded under the project. The consultants will ensure compliance with design
specifications and report any delay in execution as well as propose on-site solutions in case of
unforeseen difficulties. They will submit quarterly progress reports to the SEOPC on the progress
of each contract. The supervision provided by consultants will be monitored by the PCT and the
counterparts in the DGSFO and will be subject to periodical technical audits (paras. 1.29 and 3.7).
3.4   Overall responsibility for carrying out the road maintenance component will be vested with
the DGM. It will supervise the pilot program of routine maintenance by contract as well as the
program of highway resurfacing, assisted by the PCT and the Pavement Department. The
program of highway resurfacing will be carried out by local contractors trained under the
pavement technology transfer program financed by Loan 3350-DO. The pilot program of routine
maintenance will be carried out by small contractors under terms and guidelines to be completed,
by the SEOPC assisted by consultants financed by Loan 3350-DO. The SEOPC will prepare and
furnish to the Bank those guidelines by March 31, 1997.
3.5   Acquisition of vehicles and spare parts will be controlled by the DGM, which is
responsible for the vehicle fleet. Acquisition of office equipment will be controlled by the PCT.
3.6   The responsibility for consultant services will be as follows:
(i)   project coordination team - Project Coordinator
(ii)   maintenance management, contracting and financing - DGM
(iii)  administrative and financing - DARE
(iv)   strengthening environmental capability - DCCT
(v)   highway accident data bank - DGPP
(vi)  future transport programs - DGPP
(vii)  development plan for the northwestern region - DGPP and a steering commnittee
(viii)  highway development plan for the eastern coastal region - DGPP



- 23 -
(ix)   drainage and sanitation plan in Santo Domingo - a steering committee with
participation of city council representatives.
(x)   feasibility study of the widening of the San Cristobal-Bani highway - DGPP
MONiTORiNG, REPORTING AND BANK SuPERVISION
3.7   Monitoring. The monitoring of project implementation will encompass two levels. One
will consist of project performance reviews to be undertaken by the PCT on a continuous basis.
The other will consist of an annual engineering (technical) audit (para. 1.29) to be carried out by
an engineering consulting firm. Annex 10 provides details regarding the selection of the firm,
working standards, scheduling of the reports, concurrence of the technical audit report with the
financial-administrative audit report, the scope of the audit and recommended size of the audit
sample. The technical audit will be performed in accordance with generally and internationally
accepted road engineering standards and the professional audit standards adapted to technical
examinations. The Appendix to Annex 10 provides a set of the latter standards.
3.8   Reporting. The SEOPC will submit to the Bank quarterly reports of engineering and
financial-administrative nature on the project components providing, on the technical
components: (i) updated list of "eligible sub-projects", (ii) information on progress achieved
against agreed "performance monitoring indicators" and disbursement schedules; (iii) information
on progress of the maintenance programs; (iv) the effects of the project on the environment
during the period reported; (v) status of compliance with the legal covenants in the Loan
Agreement; and (vi) detailed work program and action plan for the coming two quarters; and on
the financial-administrative components: (i) counterpart funds allocated to the project in the
fiscal years vs. the amount actually spent; (ii) status of compliance with the legal (financial-
administrative) covenants in the Loan Agreement; and (iii) updated implementation and
disbursement schedules for the remainder of the project. The independent examination of these
quarterly reports will be included in the terms of reference of both the financial-administrative-
compliance audit and the engineering audit. The format and contents of the progress reports,
including key monitoring performance indicators were confirmed at negotiations. The proposed
monitoring performance indicators are included in Annex 11. They will allow to monitor the use
of project resources (input indicators), the timely delivering of the expected goods and services
provided by the project (output indicators) and the degree to which the project objectives are
being achieved (outcome and impact indicators). Finally, the SEOPC will submit to the Bank a
project implementation completion report by June 30, 2002 or six months after the loan is closed.
3.9   Annual Reviews. To monitor progress towards the civil works and the institutional
development objectives of the project effectively, it was agreed at negotiations that at yearly
intervals, starting not later than six months after loan effectiveness, the Government will meet
with representatives of the Bank to review and discuss: (i) progress in carrying out the civil
works, including revisions found to be necessary; (ii) physical progress of the maintenance plan
for the year, actual road maintenance expenditures for the year and proposed annual highway
maintenance program and budget for the following year; (iii) performance of the PCT; (iv)
progress on technical assistance and training; (v) the results of environmental monitoring carried
out by the DCCT; and (vi) audit reports. The project will be monitored against the technical



- 24 -
audits (paras 1.29 and 3.7 and Annex 10), key performance indicators (Annex 11), project
implementation schedule (Annex 12), estimated schedule of disbursements (Table 3.4) and the
action program for institutional development in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1 Action Program for Institutional Development
:iDATE                        ACTDON
March 31, 1997       - Completion of terms and guidelines to carry out maintenance by contract
(para. 3.4)
December 31, 1997    - Recruitment of a transport specialist in the DGPP (para. 3.1)
March 31, 1998       -Completion of technical assistance and training to DARE (para. 2.6)
December 31, 1998    - Adoption of the instrunents to establish a road fund and a new road agency
- ONMV (paras. 1.36, 1.37, 1.38 and 2.12).
- Completion of the investment plan in the transport sector (para 2.6)
June 30, 1999        - Completion of the action plan for strengthening the DCCT (para. 1.24).
- Agenda, including tenns of reference, for the miidterm project review (para
3.10).
December 31, 1999    - Implementation of a road find and a new road agency - ONMV (para. 2.12).
- Completion of the following studies (para. 2.6): accident statistics;
development plans in the northwestem and eastem coastal regions and
drainage and sanitation plan in Santo Domingo.
December 31, 2000    - Completion of the institutional strengthening and training program and all
consulting services (para. 2.6).
3.10   Mid-Term  Review. One of the above reviews to be carried out not later than December
31, 1999 will be a formal mid-term review and provide an opportunity for a more comprehensive
assessment of the achievements of the project to date, and of the prospects for successful project
completion. The review will be carried out according to the agenda and terms of reference
submitted by the Government and agreed with the Bank not later than June 30, 1999. At
negotiations, it was agreed with the Government that the review will cover: physical progress of
the project; execution of the institutional strengthening program; implementation of the road
maintenance plan; and compliance with the action program above.
3.11   Project Supervision. The project will be supervised according to the Supervision
Strategy, included in Annex 13, built on the experience gained during the implementation of
previous projects and the preparation of this project.
PROCUREMENT
3.12 Procurement of works and goods financed with Bank funds will be carried out in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995," revised in January and August 1996. All procurement arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations to ensure that they are in compliance with these guidelines. Civil works (including
supervision) are estimated to account for about 91.6% of total project costs, acquisition of goods
about 2.2% and consulting services (other than work supervision) about 6.2%. Table 3.2 shows



- 25 -
the distribution of the type of procurement appropriate for the acquisition of works, goods and
services under the project. The figures in brackets refer to loan financing.
Table 3.2 Procurement Procedures
(Figures expressed in million US
A.Highway Widening                                  25.3                                  25.3
(17.7)                                (17.7)
B. Bridge and by-pass Construction                  19.5                                  19.5
(13.7)                                (13.7)
C.Highway Reconstruction                            34.1                                  34.1
(20.6)                                (20.6)
D. Highway Resurfacing                                        20.3                        20.3
(10.1)                      (10.1)
E. Routine Maintenance by Contract                             4.4      1.62               6.0
(2.2)    (0.8)              (3.0)
F. Highway Signalization                             1.1                                   1.1
(0.8)                                 (0.8)
G. Supervision of Works                                                  7.2               7.2
(4.3)             (4.3)
H. Vehicles, Spare Parts & Office Equipment          0.8                 0.6               1.4
(0.7)              (0.5)              (1.2)
1. Consulting Services & Training                                       4.53      3.0      7.5
(3.6)     (-)    (3.6)
Bank Loan financing in parenthesis
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NBF = Not Bank Financed
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
Other = Price Quotations for E and H.
Bank's Guidelines for G and 1.
3.13   Civil Works. All contracts for highway construction and rehabilitation, and bridge
construction to be financed by the Bank and expected to be valued at more than US$3 million and
the contract for road signalization will be procured on the basis of ICB procedures and in
accordance with the "Bank Standard Documents for Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts),
January 1995".
3.14 Civil works for highway resurfacing and routine maintenance for contract between US$3
million and 250,000 will be awarded under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) which will be
based on standard bidding documents to be approved by the Bank (national competitive bidding
procedures are acceptable for highway resurfacing and routine maintenance by contract because
2Price quotations.
3 Consulting services selected in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for "Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)."



- 26 -
the works are small -- none will cost more than US$0.5 million -- and are unlikely to attract
international bidders).
3.15  Routine maintenance works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent per
contract will be procured on the basis of price quotations obtained from three qualified local
contractors (with experience and resources to successfully complete the contract) in response to a
written invitation. The invitation will include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank
and relevant drawings when necessary. The award will be made to the contractor who offers the
lower price quotation for the required work.
3.16 Civil works of US$ 10 million and more will be procured on the basis of ICB procedures in
accordance with "Bank Standard Documents for Procurement of Works (Major Works), January
1995". Prequalification of civil works contractors for contracts of US$10 million and more is
essential to the bidding process and will be based on "Prequalification Procurement of Works, April
1993 and Bidding Documents Procurement of Works, January 1995" and defined in terms of
minimum working capital, professional experience, volume and scope of similar works. All
contractors (foreign and local) interested in being prequalified will be evaluated on the basis of "fail
or pass evaluation criteria"; that is, only those complying with the minimum criteria will be
qualified.
3.17 Goods. Vehicles, spare parts and office equipment will be purchased in accordance with
the Bank's "Standard Bidding Documents. Procurement of Goods, The World Bank, January
1995." Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 per contract may be awarded through
NCB, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, except for items costing less
than US$50,000, which could be purchased using national or international shopping.
3.18  Consulting Services. Consultants for civil work supervision, technical assistance, training
programs, and auditing services will be selected and engaged following the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency,
August 1981" using the Bank's "Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services for Time-
based Complex Assignments and for Lump Sum Remuneration, June 1995."
3.19 Procurement Review. The Bank will review ex-ante all procurement documentation
(advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract award) under ICB as well as the first
two contracts in each year under NCB. The documents for the remaining contracts under NBC
will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank. All other procurement documentation will be
retained by the SEOPC and subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank's supervision
missions. The provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitations, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or less each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less each. However, this exemption to prior Bank review
will not apply to: (a) terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent



- 27 -
or more; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or more. Under these procedures, Bank's prior review will
cover about 80% of the total contract values.
3.20 Advance Procurement Action and Retroactive Financing. The loan could finance
retroactively expenditures incurred, inter alia, under the highway resurfacing program and the
pilot program of routine maintenance by contract as well as for technical assistance to support
the implementation of those programs. The implementation of those components would be done
in consultation with the Bank, including a review by the Bank of all procurement actions.
DISBURSEMENTS, AccOUNTING AND AUDITS
3.21   Disbursements. Disbursements will be made against the following categories of eligible
expenditures: (a) 70% of total expenditures for civil works of highway widening and bridge and
bypass construction and for road signalization by contract; (b) 60% of total expenditures for
highway reconstruction or rehabilitation; (c) 50% of total expenditures for the program of
highway resurfacing with new technologies and for the pilot program of routine maintenance by
contract; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of other items procured locally for purchase of vehicles, spare parts and office equipment;
(e) 60% of total expenditures for civil work supervision and technical audits; and, (f) 80% of the
cost for consulting services, including the costs of counterpart staff. Table 3.3 shows the basis of
loan disbursements.
Table 3.3 ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Amout of-
C      . ...'.... .' . '- ' "" " '' ' -
Catet,ot.i~~~~~~~             (tISMvillio)    D)isburstieniet lRte
1. CIvi Works
a) HIighway Widening, Bridge and By-Pass
Construction and Highway Signalization  26.8             70% of total expenditures
b)Highway Reconstruction                17.0             60% of total expenditures
c) Highway Resurfacing and Pilot Program of  11.1        50% of total expenditures
Routine Maintenance by Contract
2. Goods
Vehicles, Spare Parts and Office Equipment  1.1          100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% of other items
90% of local expenditures
3. Supervision and Tech. Aud.of Civil Works    3.8       60% of total expenditures
4. Consultant Services and Training      3.2             80% of total expenditures
5. Unallocated                          12.0
TOTAL                                   75.0
3.22 The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 3.4. The Government's aim is
to substantially complete the project by mid-2001, and the implementation schedule has been
developed on this basis. Experience shows, however, that some slippage is likely. The FHRMP,
Loan 3350-DO, will take four years to disburse compared to the three years originally estimated.
Therefore, the estimated disbursement profile adopted extends disbursements through 2001. The
project closing date is December 31, 2001.



- 28 -
Table 3.4 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
FY1997         June 30, 97        *9.0     9.0                        12.0
FY1998          Sep. 30, 97        3.0                 13.5           16.0
Dec. 31, 97        3.0                 15.0           20.0
Mar. 31, 97        4.0                 19.0           25.3
Jun. 30, 97        4.0    14.0         23.0           30.7
FY1999          Sep. 30, 98        4.0                 27.0           36.0
Dec. 31, 98        4.0                 31.0           41.3
Mar. 31,99         4.0                 35.0           46.7
Jun. 30, 99        4.0    16.0         39.0           52.0
FY2000          Sep. 30, 99        4.0                 43.0           57.3
Dec. 31, 99        4.0                 47.0           62.7
Mar. 31, 00        4.0                 51.0           68.0
Jun. 30, 00        4.0    16.0         55.0           73.3
FY2001          Sep. 30, 00        4.0                 59.0           78.7
Dec. 31, 00        4.0                 63.0           84.0
Mar. 30, 01        4.0                 67.0           89.3
Jun. 30, 01        3.0    15.0         70.0           93.3
FY2002          Sep. 30, 01        3.0                 73.0           97.3
Dec. 31, 01        2.0     5.0         75.0          100.0
Total                             75.0   75.0
Assumptions (Table 3.4):
Loan signing date:    Jan. 15, 97  Loan effectiveness: Apr. 15, 97
Project completion:   Jun. 15, 01  Loan closing date: Dec. 31, 01
"Includes initial deposit to Special Account and retroactive fmnancing.
3.23   Special Account and Local Project Account. A Special Account will be opened and
maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$3 million rising to
US$5 million after withdrawals and commitments reach US$12 million. The Bank will replenish
the Special Account upon receipt of disbursement requests from the Borrower. DARE, with the
assistance of the PCT, will control the use of the Special Account and be responsible for
preparing the disbursement requests on behalf of the Borrower. These requests should be
submitted every month, or when the Special Account has been drawn to 35% of its initial deposit,
whichever comes first. In addition, not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, the
Borrower will open and thereafter maintain until completion of the project a deposit account in
Dominican pesos, for purposes of managing the counterpart funds, and make an initial deposit
equivalent to US$1.5 million or about four months of local contribution. The operating
arrangements for the Special Account and the Local Account were agreed at negotiations and are
reflected in the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, signed with the Borrower.
3.24   Statement of Expenditures and Retroactive Financing. Disbursement requests in
respect of civil work contracts over US$3.0 million, acquisition of goods over US$250,000 and
consultant contracts over US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively (para. 3.19) will be fully
documented. In all other cases, disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure
(SOEs). All SOEs will be transmitted through DARE, which will retain the supporting
documentation in separate files for each SOE and make it available for examination by Bank staff
during supervision missions (Annex 13). During project preparation, it was confirmed that there
are sufficient and qualified staff in DARE to record, handle and report on the SOE related



- 29 -
transactions. Retroactive financing is recommended for payments made under the project after
February 15, 1996, but before the date of loan signature, up to a total of US$6.0 million to
finance, inter alia, the highway resurfacing program, the pilot program of routine maintenance by
contract, and technical assistance to the DGM and DARE (para. 3.20). The amount to be
financed retroactively with loan proceeds was confirmed at negotiations.
3.25 Accounting. The Borrower will have accounting and control systems capable of reliably
recording and reporting all financial transactions. To this effect, the appraisal mission evaluated
the accounting and financial system in force at DARE and discussed the new accounting system in
implementation by independent consultants financed by the IDB. The new financial management
system (accounting and reporting system) will be fully operative before project effectiveness and
will cover the following aspects: i) system of budgeting and accounting, including accounting
standards used; ii) internal control system and procedures; iii) flow of funds to support the project
organization and the project (including Bank funds); iv) financial reporting arrangements,
including linkages to key performance indicators; and v) auditing arrangements. This review will
be followed by specific recommendations to guarantee that the designs of the financial
management and accounting structure directly related to the proposed project, including staffing,
is satisfactory.
3.26  Audits. All records relating to project expenditures will be kept by the project
administration unit within DARE. Based on previous experience, the appraisal mission fully
documented the accounting staff of DARE and the external auditors on the scope and meaning of
the Bank's audit standards and financial information requirements. The scope and content of the
following audit reports were extensively discussed: Statement of Sources and Application of
Funds and Investments in the project; Supplementary Financial Information on the project; the
Statements of Expenditures --SOEs; the Special Account; the evaluation of the internal control
environment, and management's integrity and underlying ethical values; the "compliance opinions"
and the "management letter". This scope and content is shown in Annex 14 jointly with
instructions regarding the selection of the firm, working standards, scheduling of reports,
concurrence of the reports, guidelines for the preparation of the Audit service contract and terms
of reference for the preparation of the audit. Certified copies of the audit reports will be furnished
to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit report will include a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified SOEs. The amount for
retroactive financing would be included in the annual audit of the fiscal year when the loan
agreement is signed. In addition to the "financial-administrative-compliance audit", an annual
"engineering audit" (technical audit) has been provided as detailed in paragraphs 1.29 and 3.7.
PROJECT BENEFITS
3.27 The improvement of the highway network (Table 3.5) and the elimination of the main
existing bottlenecks will reduce congestion, accidents and vehicle operating costs, thereby
creating incentives for tourism promotion and increased production, and reducing outlays of
scarce foreign exchange. However, the benefits from this improvement will not be maintained in
the long term without assuring a well executed maintenance program for the highway network
and the setting up of an efficient organization to plan and carry out this maintenance program; this
will be a major contribution of Bank's participation in the proposed project. The necessary



- 30 -
changes in reorganization of the work force; the methodologies introduced under Loan 3350-DO
in maintenance management; the introduction of routine maintenance by contract; and, the
consolidation of the use of new technologies in road resurfacing, also introduced under the same
loan, will be implemented only with Bank involvement and close supervision.
Table 3.5 Current and Future Condition of the Highway
Network                               PROJECT RISKS
(1995-2001)
3.28  The main risks are: (a) delays
Paved Network    3831  100%   4240            in the widening and reconstruction
Good Condition   3110   81%   4240 100%       investments. To minimize this risk,
Poor Condition    721   19%     0   0%        engineering designs and standard
Total Network    5053  100%   5167            bidding documents are already
Good Condition   3477   690/o  4607  89%      completed and the Government will
Poor Condition   1576   31%    560  11%       establish a Local Account with an
initial deposit equivalent to US$ 1.5
million to cover about four months of local contribution (see para. 3.23); (b) inadequate
maintenance execution. To minimize this risk, the project will finance a program of highway
resurfacing and a pilot program of routine maintenance, both to be contracted out; in addition, the
SEOPC maintenance organization will be strengthened; (c) insufficient maintenance financing
after the project. To minimize this risk, SEOPC will establish a Road Fund for road and bridge
maintenance. Risks (a), (b), and (c) have been analyzed to quantify the impacts on the economic
worthiness of subprojects (see paras. 2.21 and 2.22 and Annex 8). They result in a reduction of
the benefits of the project but, even under those circumstances, all sub-projects show positive
NPVs; (d) the proposed Road Fund is not implemented before project completion. This risk is
manageable, because risks associated with failure to establish the fund do not threaten project
implementation directly as the financing of the project does not require the proceeds from the
Road Fund. Nevertheless, the Fund will help achieve the sustainability of the projects objectives
and its concept and rationale have already taken hold among SEOPC's management. The SEOPC
will adopt the instruments necessary to establish the Fund by December 31, 1998 (see para. 2.12
and Table 3.1); (e) high staff turnover, motivated by the low salaries paid by the SEOPC or
political events. To prevent high staff turnover, as a transitory arrangement until the new road
agency (ONMV) is established, the SEOPC will establish a Project Coordinating Team and
continue to allow its skilled staff to take outside employment after working hours as a supplement
to their salaries. With respect to political changes, since 1988 there have been no substantial
turnovers and after the elections held in May 1994 and 1996 only the staff politically involved has
been removed.



- 31 -
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)   as conditions of project effectiveness,
(i)   the new financial management system for SEOPC will be established and in
operation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.25);
(ii)  the Borrower will establish the PCT and employ the Project Coordinating
Team listed in Annex 9 (para. 3.1);
(iii)  the SEOPC will adopt the Environmental Manual for Road Design and
Construction (para. 2.7);
(b)   not later than September 30 of each year, the SEOPC will prepare and furnish to
the Bank a satisfactory Highway Investment and Maintenance Program (HMP)
and, not later than March 31 of each year, will prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report with respect to, inter alia, the amount of budgeted funds committed and/or
used in carrying out the HIMP for the preceding fiscal year (para. 2.6.a);
(c)   in the event that population resettlement is needed to carry out any subproject, the
Borrower shall not later than the date in which it furnishes to the Bank the
corresponding Highway Investment and Maintenance Program in which such
subproject is included: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank a resettlement plan for
such population satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) thereafter carry out such plan in
accordance with its terms (para. 2.7.a);
(d)   in the event that the final engineering designs of a subproject require acquisition of
land therefor, the Borrower not later than the date in which it furnishes to the
Bank the corresponding Highway Investment and Maintenance Program in which
such subproject is included, shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, a land
acquisition plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) thereafter carry out such plan in
accordance with its terms (para 2.7.b);
(e)   the SEOPC will prepare and initiate action for the adoption of the instruments
necessary to establish a road fund and a new road agency (ONMV) not later than
December 31, 1998 (para. 2.12);
(f)   the SEOPC will consult with the Bank before contracting any work under the
project if final and original designs of subprojects resulted in cost estimates
exceeding those of the preliminary engineering designs by more than 25% in US
dollar equivalent (paras. 2.17 and 2.20);
(g)   the SEOPC will employ and thereafter retain, until completion of the project, a
transport specialist (with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank) to



-32 -
assist the SEOPC in the preparation of transport programs, not later than
December 31, 1997 (para. 3.1);
(h)   the SEOPC will prepare and furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1997, with the
assistance of consultants, terms and guidelines acceptable to the Bank to carry out
the program of routine maintenance by contract (para. 3.4);
(i)   not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, the Borrower will open, and
thereafter maintain until completion of the project, a deposit account, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of depositing the counterpart
funds and make an initial deposit of US$ 1,500,000 equivalent in that account
(para. 3.23); and
Gj)   the Borrower will comply with the agreed action program for institutional
development (Table 3.1).
4.2   Recommendation. With the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank fixed-
rate single currency loan of US$ 75 million, with standard amortization term, grace period and
interest rate and an expected disbursement period of 3-6 years.



- 33 -
Table of Contents
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1
SEOPC's ADMiNISTRATIVE SYSTEM AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE .............................................................. 35
ANNEX 2
POLICY DECLARATION FOR THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................................................ 43
ANNEX 3
ROAD MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATION AND PROGRAMM1NG    ................................... 53
ANNEX 4
PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........................................ 69
ANNEX 5
DETAILED PROJECT COST ..............................................................  73
ANEXO 6.1
TERMINoS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA SUPERVISION DE OBRAS CIVILES ......... .............. 79
ANEXO 6.2
TERMNOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA ASISTENCIA TECNICA A LA SEOPC EN LA
EJECUCION DEL SISTEMA DE ADMNSTRACION DE MANTENIMIENTO DE
CARRETERAS (SAMC) ..............................................................  85
ANEXO 6.3
A. TRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA ASESORIA FINANCiERO-ADMNSTRATIVA ......... 97
B. TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA PRELIMINARES PARA CAPACITACION EN EL AREA
DE ADMNSTRACION FINANCIERA Y AUDITORfA ....................................................... 98
ANEXO 6.4
TRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA EL FORTALECMENTO DEL DEPARTAMENTO
DE CONTROL DE LA CORTEZA TERRESTRE EN LA GESTION AMBiENTAL DE
PROYECTOS VIALES ..............................................................  99
ANEXO 6.5
T1 RMINOS DE REFFRENCIA PARA LA CONTRATACION DE SERVICIOS DE
CONSULTORIA PARA LA IMPLANTACION DE UN SISTEMA DE ESTADISTICA Y
ANALISIS DE ACCIDENTES VIALES ..............................................................   103
ANEXO 6.6
TtRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA CONTRATACION DE SERVICIOS DE
CONSULTORiA PARA LA ELABORACION DE UN PLAN DE INVERSIONES DEL
SECTOR TRANSPORTE .............................................................. 109
ANEXO 6.7
TERM1NOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA ASISTENCIA TCNICA A LA SEOPC EN EL
DESARROLLO DEL PLAN DIRECTOR DE DRENAJE PLuviAL Y SANEAMiENTO DE
AGUAS DE SANTO DOMINGO ...............................................................111
ANEXO 6.8
TPRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA ASISTENCIA TECNICA A LA SEOPC PARA
EL ESTUDIO INFORMATIVO DE AMPLIACION DE LA CARRETERA DE SANTO
DOMINGO A BANI .............................................................. 123



- 34 -
ANNEX 7
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .............................................................                                                               129
ATrACHMENT 1 .............................................................                                                                        132
ATTACHMENT  2  ............................................................. 133
ATTACHMENT 3  ............................................................. 135
ANNEX 8
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .............................................................                                                                    137
ANNEX 9
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION TEAM .................... 147
ANEXO 10
TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA AUDITORIA TECNICA ( DE INGENIERIA)   ................ 151
ANNEX 11
PROJECT  PERFORMANCE  MONITORING  INDICATORS  ...........................                                                   ..................... 159
ANNEX 12
PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE .............................................................                                                    167
ANNEX 13
SUPERVISION PLAN
STAFF INPUT FOR PROJECT LAUNCH AND ANNUAL AND MID-COURSE REViEWS ...... 169
ANEXO 14
TtRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA AUDITORIA FINANCiERO ADMINISTRATIVA
Y  DE  CUMPLILvENTO  LEGAL  ............................................................. 173
ANNEX 15
DOCUMENTS  IN  THE  PROJECT  FiLE  ................................                                         ............................. 177



- 35 -
ANNEX I
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SEOPC's ADMINISTRATIVE SYSTEM AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
A.   Administrative System
1.    The administrative system at SEOPC is highly centralized and congested. The
overcentralized power and decision making structure at Secretary level is just the reflect of the
global system of administration prevailing at the country's public level, according to a "Diagnostic
on the Central Financial Organization and Plan for the Development of the Quality and Timing of
the Accounting-Finance Information of the SEOPC" ("the Diagnostic"), presented by Horwarth
Consulting in January 1995.
2.    The current centralized organization goes against the necessary delegation of the
administrative processes toward the lower, hierarchical levels (departments and divisions) and the
Districts. These, however, should be strengthened before any substantive delegation or
administrative decentralization is decided.
3.    The institutional growth and functions diversification of the SEOPC has not run in
parallel, however, to a similar trend in the legal and normative framework. It is necessary the
harmonization of the laws and the issuing of the related regulations which allow for the proper
functioning of the laws and the introduction of structures and systems to streamline the
administration and functional processes of the SEOPC.
4.    During project appraisal, it was noticed that there is no a definitive institutional
organigram in force at the SEOPC; neither the existing organigram is known to all General
Directorates. As a result, there are certain key officers unaware of which units reporting to him
are or to where they should report. The secrecy in distributing the official "organization chart"
has resulted in several cases in a free interpretation of the new reporting and dependency lines. It
is necessary that a single organigram be produced, approved by the Secretary and distributed
among all the functional units jointly with the respective Functions Manual.
B.    Financial Management Structure
5.    The basic financial management center at the SEOPC is, conventionally, the General
Directorate of Administration (DGA). The DGA accounts for the three basic functional units:
Accounting, Budget and Treasury.
6.    Neither the Budget or the Treasury fulfill a proper financial activity or are used by
management as managerial control tools or for the preparation of financial projection and
disbursement programs.



-36 -
7.    The SEOPC accounting system is totally manual and the accounting process is extremely
slow. The system does not cover some basic items, such as inventories which, until 1994, were
handled as expenses rather than as tangible assets. The accounting system in force is not devised
to produce a regular and reliable flow of management information.
8.    The Accounting Department at the DGA is not the only accounting unit within the
SEOPC. Therefore, it cannot be considered, as it should, the central recording system. The
Administrative Department of External Resources - DARE, created in order to keep record of the
financial resources from international lending, maintains its own separated accounting system and
the Directorate for Maintenance of Highways and Rural Roads (DGM) keeps also an accounting
unit. So, a sense of accounting indiscipline is noted, derived from the existing autonomy and
disconnection at various levels of the organization. This situation is not conducive to the
maintenance of controls and reliable information for management.
9.    In some units, the operations are registered focusing on the programs utilizing computer
terminals connected to the computer center. But the resulting reports are not reconciled with
those kept in the Central Accounting Department. Such is the case of the inventory at the Central
Storage, the fixed assets accounts, the complementary payroll, the issuing of checks by the
Treasury and the transactions from international resources which are kept separated at DARE.
Since no formal liaison reporting has been established between these individual units and the
Central Accounting Department, the information which this Unit should produce for SEOPC is,
necessarily, incomplete.
10.   The SEOPC, as an institutional entity, needs a uniform accounting system where the
individual contributions from the different functional units be summarized and reported -- such is
the case of DARE. That implies the introduction of a "system by projects" or "principal
activities" where while recognizing the Government budgetary systems, integrate the different
sub-accounting centers and records into the Central Accounting of SEOPC. The complete
computerization of the whole accounting system is definitely a need. The new accounting system
should be based on a new Chart of Accounts and the whole package should produce an
Accounting Plan and Financial Information System.
11.   The whole concept of "financial reporting" at SEOPC should be reviewed. The financial
execution by projects; keeping of special accounts (such as those needed for reviewing and
processing bill of quantities); the form, content and distribution of the reports, should be
revamped. The establishrnent of a timely "management information system" should be the
ultimate product of the recommended computerized accounting system.
12.   The Budget Unit is theoretically the coordination center of the budget assigned to the
SEOPC programs. The keeping of the budget, however, does not allow for the comparison
between the execution and the accounting records. In fact, there is no formal communication
system established for the necessary interchange of information between the Budget and the
Accounting Units. Under the circumstances, it is not possible to establish a "budgetary control"
and the execution of the budget is divorced from the accounting and treasury functions.



- 37 -
13.   The Treasury unit work consists, basically, of a "payment of checks window" and no
financial planning or projections of funds are prepared as a decision making element for the
management.
14.   During project appraisal, "the Diagnostic" was evaluated and considered a fair account of
the financial management picture at the SEOPC. Therefore, it is recommended that the SEOPC
management take the necessary actions in order to design and implement the recommendations
and conclusions of the consultants. However, it was realized that, except for the incidence in
DARE, the current financial management situation regarding the accounting, budgetary and
Treasury functions bear no direct effect on the current or the under study operation. The above
comments have been included only for the Bank to have a reminder, in any eventual Government
Reform Program, of the situation in this important area of the SEOPC. At any event in the
process of the proposed project the SEOPC's management would be warned about the financial
management condition and urge them to take a corrective action.
15.   In the area of control the SEOPC has the Units of "Controllership" (Contraloria) and
Internal Audit. In addition, the "Supervision and Fiscalization of Works Directorate" is in charge
of technical control. Up to the beginning of the current administration it was a "Controllership
and Internal Audit" Unit reporting directly to the Secretary of State. Based partially on the
reconmmendations of the "Diagnostic", this Unit was split in two: "Controllership" and "Internal
Audit". As a result of the project appraisal mission, the recommendations shown in the two
following paragraphs were adopted.
16.   The "Controllership Unit", consisting of a single officer, with no control function,
technically speaking, was eliminated.
17.   The Internal Audit Unit's (which used to report to the "Controller") organization,
functions, standards, apparent quality of the staff, reports produced and its distribution is far away
from what is considered currently the work of a true internal audit function in a modern
Government. The staff is inexperienced and in extreme need of training (the low level of salaries
has been one of the reasons for the departure of senior and qualified staff). The internal audit
reports are not prepared following professional working standards nor audit procedures. The
appraisal mission prepared the attached (see attached Appendix) "Suggested Organization"
"Profile of the Internal Performance Auditor" and "Terms of Reference for the new Internal
Performance Audit Unit".



- 38 -
APPENDIX
TO ANNEX I
Suggested Organization for a
"General Directorate of Internal Performance Audit"
L Concept, Sbucture and Standards
Concept of Internal Performance Auditing (EPA)
1.1    The Internal Performance Auditing (IPA) is an independent, "ex-post" appraisal function to
be established within the Secretariat of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC). To this
effect, SEOPC should structure a Internal Performance Audit Office (IAO) to be headed
by a Internal Performance Auditor and staffed with a multidisciplinary professional nix
compatible with the nature of the activities and programs of SEOPC.
1.2    The denomination "Internal Performance Audit" clearly shows the current trends in
Govemment's intemal auditing. In effect, the work of the IPA should go beyond the
administrative-accounting-financial aspects, to cover as well the value-for-money or
economy-efficiency-effectiveness of the SEOPC's activities and programs. It should cover
also the assessment of the work being done intemally with respect to the environment-related
financial issues, impacts, compliance and evaluations. That is, the intemal audit function
embraces the total integrateat global performance of the SEOPC.
1.3    The objective of the IAO should be to furnish the SEOPC with analysis, appraisals,
recommendations and counsel, on the SEOPC's operations, programs, projects, activities and
functions.
1.4    The function of the IAO is of a prevenfive and advisory nature. However, it would closely
monitor the achievement of the institutional objectives andgoals and thefinancial,
administrative, institutional, and- when applicable - environmentalperformance of the
SEOPC's operations and programs.
1.5    Consistent with the current international understanding of the intemal audit function, this
should be exercised, as indicated in paragraph 1.1, on an "ex post" perspective; that is, it
should not be the responsibility of the IPA to pre-control orpre-approve any of the
operations or transactions whose processing is the responsibility of the regular administrative
and operational units of the organization.
1.6    The Internal Performance Audit function is independent (i) in the sense that the Internal
Perforrnance Auditor, although administratively reporting to the head of SEOPC, still must be
independent.from the functions subject to his/her examinations and evaluations, and (ii)
because he/she must use independence of criterion while exercising such functions.



- 39 -
IL ProfleoftheinternalPerformanceAuditor (PA)
2.1     The individuals to be engaged in the Internal Performance Audit activities should represent,
as needed, a multidisciplinway professional origin: accounting, business adninistration or
management; and engineering, law, economics, environmental sciences, and, when justified,
social sciences.
2.2     The LAO shall be headed by a professional with proven experience in financial management,
accountingand auditing the Internal Performance Auditor (IPA).
2.3    In order to be eligible for the IPA position the candidate must have a University background
in the fields of: Accounting, Finance, Administration, Engineering or Auditing. Other
University graduates (in Economics, Law, etc.) could also be considered as long as they have
working experience in the broad area offinancial management, preferably in the public
sector. Specific training in modern internal auditing can be obtained through "ad hoc" crash
programs of study. In addition, the candidate should have not less than five years of
combined professional experience in the private and public sectors in any of the above
mentioned fields.
2.4     The candidate should be endowed with professional integrity and honesty.
2.5     The candidate should be subject to the necessaty updating/training in the areas of knowledge
required for the proper discharge of his/her responsibilities.
llL Terms of Reference and Basic Working Program
3.1     To utilize, as applicable, the audit procedures and approach recommended in the Standards
for the Professional Practice ofInternal Auditing issued by the (Intemational) Institute of
Internal Auditors.
3.2     To prepare at the beginning of each fiscal year aProgrwn ofActivities oriented toward the (i)
prevention of administrative and financial shortenings, (ii) advise to management and other
mernbers of SEOPC, and (iii) continuous monitoring of the performance of the entity. This
program will be discussed and approved by the Secretary of State.
3.3     To check the efficiency of the accounting, financial and operational internal control system
structure and environment.
3.4     To examine SEOPC's institutional budget performance, including the cost variations or
deviations and the related reports on the execution.
3.5     To perform the financial-operational-environmental examination, embracing (i) the
verification of the existence - of SEOPC's assets, liabilities, and results, including the
liabilities and costs associated to the environment-related transactions or projects, and (ii) the
inspection visits to selected offices and work sites where the major, medium and small size
projects are being executed by SEOPC.



- 40 -
3.6     To appraise the economy and efficiency with which SEOPC employees the human, financial,
physical, and when applicable, environmental resources of SEOPC.
3.7     To follow the effectiveness and accomplishment of established objectives and goals for
SEOPC's operational programs and projects; and to analyze and interpret the pre-established
performance indcators to measure the results of SEOPC.
3.8     To evaluate, when applicable, the risks associated with environmental-related activities and
official regulations. To this effect, it will focus on SEOPC's structure of responsibilities and
policies, practices, procedures, processes and resources for protecting the environment and
managing environmental issues; that is, the SEOPC's Environmental and Management
Systems - EMS.
3.9     To review the reliability and integrity of financial and operational information and the means
used, within the SEOPC, to identify, measure, classify, and report such information.
3.10    To design and monitor the administrative systems andprocedures aimed at the prevention of
waste, uneconomic practices and illegal acts during the execution of the SEOPC's activities.
3.11    To be instrumental in helping to evaluate the integrity of the entity's performance and ethical
compliance efforts of the SEOPC, especially those activities that relate to the wide spectrum
represented by financial management, accounting and control practices.
3.12    To assess the systems established to ensure compliance, by all SEOPC's departments, with
the operationalpolicies, plans and procedures of the organization, including those related to
the protection of the environment; and to report if the entity is in compliance.
3.13    To observe the compliance, by all departments of SEOPC, with the laws and regulafions
affecting SEOPC's activities, including those aimed at the protection of the environment; and
to report if the entity is in compliance.
3.14    To prepare, as needed, compliance auditing reports, financial reports, economy and
efficiency reports, and program effectiveness reports.
3.15    To consult with the SEOPC's Legal Counsel regarding preferred environmental activities,
including (i) the responsibilities attached to such activities; (ii) the preferred audit approach
and procedures, and (iii) any documentation and record retention policy related to the
environmental audits.
3.16    To assist or provide technical support as needed to the SEOPC's DARE in the preparation of
the external audit arrangements; and to cooperate with the extemal auditors - as may be
mutually agreed - in the planning and execution of the annual exaniination.



- 41 -
3.17    To follow up the actions taken by the managers of the SEOPC on the recommendations
presented in the audit reports after they were accepted by the respective managers; or find out
the reasons for not having taken them.



- 42 -
PROPOSED MODELeSTRUCTURE OF A
INTERNAL PERFORMANCE AUDIT OFFICE (IAO)
|Head of SEOPC |
I    I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Performancel
Internal Audit
I   1                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Office (IAO)
Financial/Administra             Efficiency-Economy-
tive/Compliance             Effectiveness-Environment
Audits (FACA)                 (EEEE) Examinations
m   Exmod iest but, in tanypevent,the IA   su  covers t  activities mre witho. an.....  asterisk. (*).
jtridi ,                                                               . .irk*.    .....                          si     toiib
p~itorffan4arid~oin~t~ pxit....     ...  .
.......  ..~I . .... e    s~ x~  ih  te ~ EE   **                       C ,nrl ..oecs-    ot---------ierin(oo. .. p.)..
.......na   ..mr  ..... .ioaais  udtr,ss  ocait .iisttr    n
.. ... ....~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ainiss  idohrs snedd
AD VISING, PREVENTING AND TIMELY REPORTING TO THE HEAD OF THE SEOPC
Note: The above structure represents the ultimate stage of an organized Performance Audit Office. At the beginning, the aims shall be
more modest but, in any event, the IAO should cover those activities marked with an asterisk (*).



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government of the Dominican Republic
Secretariat of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC)
POLICY DECLARATION FOR THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.    The Government of the Dominican Republic will, through the proposed National
Highways Project, engage a consultant to assist SEOPC in developing a transport sector
policy. In the interim, the government's current policy and strategy in the sector are
presented below:
A.    General Transport Policy
2.    The Government's policy in the transport sector is aimed at:
(a) increasing competition among the various operators in the sector;
(b) fostering in the participation of the private sector both in investments and the
administration and operation of services;
(c) modernizing, repairing and maintaining the country's deteriorated transport
infrastructure;
(d) increasing the efficiency of the sector's agencies;
(e) ensuring adequate cost recovery in the sector; and
(f) integrating environmental impact and mitigatory measures more closely in the
planning, design, construction and operation of the sector's facilities.
B.    Increased Competition
3.    The Government's policy on competition in the sector is to foster unimpeded
access and competition. To that end, the Government will review the regulatory
mechanisms presently in place and modify them, as necessary, to achieve that policy
objective.
C.    Private Sector Participation
4.    Government's policy envisages the participation of the private sector in financing
transport facilities which would then be operated under concession contracts with the
private sector. This includes investments in both port and airport improvements as well as
in major roads to be operated as toll roads. With regard to operating transport facilities,
private sector participation is already a reality. Practically all the country's ports and



- 44 -
airports operate under some type of concession arrangement for cargo and passenger
handling and for maintenance activities. For ports, the Government, under a proposed
loan being discussed with the 1DB, plans to redefine the role of the Dominican Port
Authority to be normative while the private sector increases its participation in those
services in which it has demonstrated a greater efficiency and effectiveness. For civil
aviation, the Government is holding discussions with various interested parties for the
operation of the routes of the national carrier, the Dominican Aviation Company. For
roads, the Government already uses the private sector for all road construction and
rehabilitation and for periodic maintenance. Under the proposed National Roads Project
being discussed with the he World Bank, the Government will embark on a program of
routine maintenance by private contractors.
5.    Despite the important investments made recently in the sector, much work remains
to be done in view of the increased transport demand and the changing base of the
economy with increased contribution from tourism and free zones. In order to permit the
transport sector to play its role adequately, the Government has embarked on a program
to modernize the facilities, rehabilitate deteriorated infrastructure and continue to establish
effective maintenance systems to prevent further deterioration. In the planning of the
resources to be spent on these activities, the Government uses economic, financial,
technical and environmental criteria accepted world-wide.
6.    Modernization: For ports, a proposed loan from the IDB is aimed, inter alia, at
assisting in modernizing the facilities at the country's major ports. For highways, the
proposed National Highways Project, to be financed by the World Bank, would assist in
widening high-traffic main roads which have exceeded their and replace major bridges
which have either reached the end of their economic lives or their load bearing capacity.
For urban roads, a major study is under way to determine the scope and cost of activities
required, upgrade urban road infrastructure, improve mass transit service and modernize
traffic regulation.
7.    Repair and Maintenance: The Government intends to rehabilitate the major
ports as part of its concession strategy. Their subsequent maintenance would be carried
out as part of the concession by the private sector. For roads, ongoing projects with the
World Bank and the IDB are already helping to repair the main network and feeder roads
respectively. The proposed World Bank project would assist in continuing this effort. In
the case of roads, the Government expects that the increased involvement of the private
contractors in carrying out routine maintenance would lead to higher efficiency. Also,
SEOPC's ongoing pilot program on the use of cold mixes for resurfacing is expected to
reduce the cost of maintenance and permit wider coverage with maintenance funds.
E.    Increasing the Efficiency of the Sector's Agencies
8.    A major objective of the Government is to strengthen the sector's institutions to
effectively discharge their duties. The Government is fully aware that inefficient
institutions play as much role as insufficient funding in the sector's ineffectiveness. The



- 45 -
Government will take the necessary steps under the Proposed National Roads Project to
improve the coordination of investment planning and policy formulation among the
sector's agencies by consolidating that responsibility, de facto as well as de jure, within the
SEOPC. A consultant would be hired under the project to assist the SEOPC to formulate
an overall transport sector policy. SEOPC's Planning Department would also be
strengthen through the recruitment of one transport economist and a consulting firm to
assist in coordinating and consolidating the investment plans of the various transport
sector agencies.
9.    The government has identified the need in the ports sub-sector to separate out the
normative functions of planning, setting standards, regulating port activities and
formulating policy from operating and maintaining port facilities. The Government has
adopted, as part of its discussions with the IDB, a plan to assign the normative functions
to the Dominican Port authority and to leave the operations and maintenance to the
private sector in the form of concessions.
10.  In the roads sub-sector, the Government will continue the institutional
strengthening of the SEOPC, especially in planning maintenance and in managing
contracted maintenance. The Government will also improve the capacity of SEOPC's
Planning Department to coordinate overall sector planning and policy formulation.
F.    Ensuring adequate Cost Recovery in the Sector
11.   Ports, airports and road-user charges currently in force adequately cover the
marginal costs for each of the sub-sectors. However, in both ports and airports current
charges make no allowance for depreciation of assets. In the increasing use of
concessions in port and airport operations and maintenance, the Government plans to
allow for such depreciation in its costing of the concessions. In the case of roads, it is
Government's policy to adjust road-user charges to at least cover the maintenance and the
administration of the network.
G.   Environmental Impact and Mitigation in Transport
12.   The Government is committed to environmentally sustainable development. To
this end, the Government's policy is to integrate into the planning, design construction,
maintenance and operation of all transport facilities an analysis of the environmental
impact and to provide, where necessary, for mitigating adverse impacts. In both the
proposed port loan with the IDB and the proposed National Highways Project to be
financed by the World Bank, all project components will be subject to the above
environmental policy.
Signed
Secretario de Estado de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones, SEOPC



- 46 -
GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECRETARIAT OF PUBLICS WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS (SEOPC)
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT
ACTION PLAN
Objectives        Instrument                        Action                    Responsibility      Timing/          Impact
Conditionality    Envisaged
A) Developing a    New Transport      a) Engage a Consultant to assist SEOPC in        SEOPC            03/97      Define a transport
Transport Sector   sector policy      developing a transport sector policy and provide  Consultants                Sector Policy
Policy                                technical assistance for the organization, set up, and
training of the transport investment planning and
investment coordination unit.
b) Increasing competition among the various
operations in the sector. Fostering the participation
of the private sector both in investments and the
administration and operation of services.
c) Modernizing, repairing and maintaining the
country's deteriorated transport infrastructure;
increasing the efficiency of sector's agencies;
insuring adequate cost recovery in the sector, and
integrating environmental impact and mitigatory
measures more closely in the planning, design,
construction and operation of sector's facilities.
B) Strengthen      Institutional      a) SEOPC
Government's       strengthening      (i) Implement programs developed under 3350-DO  SEOPC &           03/97      Improve sector
management and     program for SEOPC  for private sector participation in road maintenance;   Consultants  (4 years)    planning and
planning capabilities  in procurement,    environmental impact management; and pavement                            management.
contract           and maintenance management systems.
management, and
pavement and
maintenance
management.



- 47 -
Objectives        Instrument                        Action                   Responsibility     Timing/          Impact
Conditionality    Envisaged
(ii) Strengthen the DGPP with the engagement of a   SEOPC &     12/97      Improve SEOPC
transport specialist that will assist SEOPC in  Consultants    (4 years)    awareness of
transport sector planning.                                                 enviroinental and
procurement
issues.
b) SEOPC - DGTT                                SEOPC &          05/97      Improve road
Provide technical assistance to DGTT in the areas of  Consultants  (18 months)  information.
traffic information and safety tourist traffic and to
improve the transport facilities.
c) SEOPC - DGTT                                SEOPC &          08/97      Improve traffic
Establish a data base on highway accidents statistics   Consultants  (11 months)  safety information.
to improve traffic safety.
d) SEOPC - DGCT                                SEOPC &          04/97      Improve
Provide Technical assistance to DGCT for      Consultants     (6 months)   environmental
strengthening environmental management of                                  impact
sectorial projects. Expand the functions and staff                         management.
within DGCT into a Environmental Unit to manage
environmental aspects of road and transport projects
in addition to the existing functions for the control
of excavation of construction materials.
e) Provide technical assistance to the DGMCCV, in  SEOPC,       03/97      Improve
the use of maintenance systems and in supervision    DGMCCV, &  (4 years)    maintenance
of highway resurfacing contracts.             Consultants                   lanning.
f) Prepare the future investment program in the  SEOPC, DGTT,   05/97      Improve transport
ransport sector.                             & Consultants    (16 months)  sector planning.
g) Prepare the development plan for the Eastern                             lan road
region                                                                        nstruction in the
Coast.



- 48 -
Objectives        Instrument                       Action                    Responsibility     Timing/          Impact
Conditionality    Envisaged
h) Prepare the development plant for the Northwest                           omote
region.                                                                     evelopment in the
Region
C) Foster sustainable  Identify an    Conduct a study to analyze the contribution of the  SEOPC &     03/97      Ensure cost
financing and efficient institutional  different categories of users to expenditures and  Consultants  (22 months)  recovery (of at
execution of road  mechanisms to link  revenues. Formulate arrangements for a dedicated                          least marginal
maintenance.       user fees to costs and road maintenance fund, to be administered by a road                    cost) in the
quality of        agency.                                                                     highway sector.
maintenance work.
D) Foster private    Implementation of a  1) Implementation of a program of highway   SEOPC,          03/97      Improve periodic
sector participation in periodic maintenance resurfacing in 656 Km of paved highways, utilizing  Consultants, &  (36 months)   maintenance
road maintenance    program.          the technologies transferred with the support of the    Contractors        practices
work.                                 3350-DO Loan.
2) Implementation a pilot program of routine   SEOPC,           03/97      Provide adequate
maintenance by contract in 640 Km of selected  Consultants, &              and timely routine
highways. This program will be developed      Contractors                  highway
according to the guidelines and recommnendations                           niaintenance.
and documents prepared by Consultants under Loan
3350-DO.
Privatization of road Substitute private contractors for SEOPC force  Contractors  03/97      Improve routine
maintenance       account in the execution of road and bridge                     (4 years)    maintenance
execution.        maintenance. The following are goals by year for                            execution.
maintenance by contract: 1997 - 20%; 1998 - 40%;
1999 - 60%; 2000 - 80%; and 2001 - 95%. Assess
Government's performance in the privatization of
road maintenance activities.
E) Foster efficient    Concession high    -Complete feasibility studies for the Santo Domingo-   SEOPC &  03/97
private investment in  trffic transport  San Pedro de Maconis Highway and the San   Consultants      (4 years)
the highway network. corridors to the  Cristobal-Bani Highway.



- 49 -
Objectives         Instrument                       Action                    Responsibility     Timing/          Impact
Conditionality    Envisaged
private sector.    -Implement a Build, Operated Transferred (BOT)                             Improve highway
legislation.                                                                management and
-Prepare bidding documents, establish work                                  operations.
rocedures.
E) Reconstruction and Improvement of the  (i) Reconstruction of 169 Km of national     SEOPC,           03/97      Elimninate
widening of highways, tnink network.  highways in the East, Cibao, and Capital regions.   Consultants, &  (39 months)   congestion, reduce
and construction of                                                                  Contractors                   operation costs and
bridges and by-passes.                                                                                            improve safety.
(ii) Bridge and highway by-pass construction.                    05/97
Construction of four(4) bridges and 24 km of                  (24 months)
highway by-passes to improve through and local
traffic in four(4) cities (San Pedro, Romana, Bani,
and Monte Cristi).
(iii) Highway widening construction of 28.3 Kms to               05/97
four (4) divided lanes in three (3) important truck           (24 months)
highways to improve trunk highways to improve
traffic conditions and safety (Santo Domingo-San
Isidro, Haina-Refineria, Santiago-Navarrete)
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.) Improve SEOPC's List of criteria for   Agree with the bank on the list of criteria for  SEOPC  To be agreed    Ensure compliance
project evaluation  subproject selection  subproject selection. During scheduled annual           during           with Bank
procedures                            reviews, update the subproject list on the selection        negotiations     economic
criteria.                                                                   financial, auditing,
social, and
environmental
guidelines.



- 50-
Objectives        Instrument                       Action                   Respiibility       Timing/          Impact
I__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _Conditionality  Envisaged
Application of sound (i) Conduct enviromnental analyses of subprojects to   SEOPC &           nsure compliance
environmental     be implemented during the years of the project  Consultants                with Bank
policies                                                                                     environental
(ii) Complete environmental guidelines including                          guidelines;
technical specifications in bidding documents, to be                      increase SEOPC's
reviewed by the Bank                                                      awareness on
environmental
(iii) Adequately staff and equip the environmental                        issues.
unit                                                                  .
B) Facilitate project   Completion of  (i) Allocate funds for counterpart project    SEOPC           03/97      Ensure appropriate
implementation     implementation    components                                      & Bank         (4 years)    project
arrangements                                                                                 management and
(ii) Establish the Project Coordination Team (PCI)                        implementation
(iii) Staffing and budgeting adequately the PCT
Annual and midterm  Apply monitoring criteria and performance     SEOPC     Annual           Allow for project
reviews           indicators defined during appraisal.            & Bank                     changes and
remedial actions if
project
implementation
goals are not met
Procurement       (i) Agree on acceptable LCB to be used during   SEOPC      (i) Before Board  Prevent
procedures        implementation                                  & Bank    presentation    implementation
delays
(ii) Agree on use of Bank's Standard Bidding              (ii) Agreed during
ocuments                                                 negotiations
(iii) Review the adequacy of contract review              (iii)Annual and
rocedures                                                mid-term review



- 51 -
Objectives        Instrument                        Action                    Responsibility      Timing/         Impact
Conditionality    Envisaged
C). Ensure provision  Govermment policy  (i) Include covenant establishing appropriate levels  SEOPC, Central To be agreed at    imely availability
of adequate        and legal covenants  of counterpart funds during project implementation   Bank, & Bank  negotiations  of adequate
counterpart funds                                                                                                  counterpart funds
(ii) Establish a local special account with an initial                      during project
deposit to cover about four (4) months of counterpart                       implementation
finds
Review annual budget (i) Review annual budget allocations to the road    SEOPC, DARE, Annually, 3
allocations       sector to ensure adequate provision for the Project.  & Bank    months before
Include satisfactory funding in the annual budgets.        budget submission
to Congress.
(ii) Assess governments performance on the                 Mid-Term Review
provision of counterpart funds.                            (Februaiy, 1999)
D). Ensure         Provision of adequate (i) Review annually road maintenance budgets.  GDR, SEOPC, Annual and mid-  Sustainability of
sustainability of  road routine                                                        & DARE    term reviews.    project
project investments   maintenance     (ii) Allocate funds for routine maintenance in the          Condition for Bank investments.
annual budget.                                             approval of further
annual programs.
(iii) Assess Government's performance on the
provision of adequate maintenance funds.
(iv) Assess Government's performance on the
agreed maintenance programs.






- 53 -
ANNEX 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATION AND PROGRAMMING
A.   Current Organization and Management of Road Maintenance
1.01  Background. Prior to Executive Decree No. 326-87 of June 18, 1987, road maintenance
in the Dominican Republic was the responsibility of two separate and entirely independent
General Directorates: the General Directorate of Road Maintenance for national roads and the
General Directorate of Rural Roads. With the Decree No. 326-87, they were merged into one,
the General Directorate of Highways and Rural Roads (DGM). This new entity was made
responsible for the maintenance of both national and rural roads, as well as related bridges,
structures and drainage works, and incorporated the former Directorate General of Rural Roads.
Since then, the staff of the two previous entities have come under the same management. The
departments, sections and units of the new DGM attend to the maintenance of both national and
local roads, although some sections belong to different lines of command.
1.02 Personnel. In June 1993, DGM had a total of 4,510 staff, at a payroll cost of DR$48.6
million (US$3.9 million), to attend to the routine and periodic maintenance of 5,050 km of
highways and 12,860 km of rural roads. Some 3,000 staff were employed in highway
maintenance at a payroll cost of DR$34 million (US$2.7 million). This represented a significant
reduction in maintenance labor costs, which had thus been brought down from 80% of total
maintenance cost in 1989 to 53% in 1993. However, in 1994, due to a reduced budget allocation
with the same manpower force, the roadworks payroll figure rose again in percentage terms,
reaching 67.5% of total maintenance cost (Graph IA). The proposed project will drastically
reverse this trend, since roadwork manpower is projected to cost US$134,000 in the year 2001
(Graph IB), for a total work force of 115 individuals (Graph IB).
1.03  Equipment Management. There are currently two Subdirectorates of Equipment and
Transportation, one based in Santo Domingo and the other in Santiago. While not clearly
defined, their functions are similar, although the Santiago branch is supervised by its counterpart
in Santo Domingo. This situation explains why in some cases the lines of command disappear,
and information flows do not provide a clearer and better basis for decision-making.
1.04 In 1994, DGM set up an Equipment Management Unit, vesting it with responsibility for
reviewing: (a) requisitions for tires and batteries, and (b) consumption of fuel and lubricants.
Although this Unit is not shown on the most recent DGM organization chart, it should be
incorporated into the Subdirectorate of Equipment and support the districts and subdistricts
(ayudantias) as far as equipment operation and maintenance is concerned. If the Unit were given
new terms of reference that included technical management of equipment, it would be of



- 54 -
invaluable assistance in implementing the Equipment Management System, in particular for repairs
and preventive maintenance.
Graph 1A: Highway Maintenance Expenses
6;=
5
4
2
0
1989        1990        1991         1992         1993        1994
-4-Personnel --Asphalt and Fuel -4-Other~ Materials -0Equipmentl
G;raph 1B: Projected Personnel Expenses in Maintenance by Force Account
'3
25  619                 19          99         0020



- 55 -
1.05 Assignment and Distribution of Equipment. DGM equipment is distributed among
four maintenance districts, divided in their turn into 21 subdistricts. Currently, the Equipment and
Transportation Subdirectorate which is headquartered in Santo Domingo is responsible for
assigning units of maintenance equipment to the various districts, and each district for assignments
to its own subdistricts. Operation and maintenance of this equipment is the responsibility of
district and subdistrict managers. Table A2. 1 shows the composition of the present fleet, by type
of unit.
Table A 2.1
Equipment  Trucks   Water  Asphalt Motograders  Front    Light   Heavy  Tractors  Small
trucks  trucks            Loaders  Rollers  Rollers      Tractors
Nurnber of   125   21      4        24        33      21      33     4        21
1.06  Since road maintenance activities are not "programmed," in the strict sense of the word, it
is not possible to obtain a clear picture of equipment use. Neither, therefore, is it possible to give
a breakdown of the specific maintenance works for which each unit is used, or to generate reliable
data on equipment use rates and availability. In order to arrive at a satisfactory appraisal of the
state of the equipment fleet and ascertain whether the present fleet is large enough, the following
would be required: (a) an inventory of all units, including their mechanical condition; (b) a
highway and rural road maintenance program; and (c) an estimate -- based on the program -- of
the types of units needed, and the number needed of each type. The technical assistance team
financed under Loan 3350-DO to advise on maintenance management is currently working on
these three aspects of the problem.
1.07 Workshops. At the present time, DGM operates the following workshops:
(a)    Two Type A workshops in Santo Domingo (i.e. supporting the subdistrict
workshops), one for vehicles (light mechanics) and the other for equipment (heavy
mechanics);
(b)   one Type A workshop for equipment in Santiago, with similar capacity to the one
in Santo Domingo;
(c)   six Type B workshops (responsible for preventive maintenance and repair of minor
components), located in Azua, San Francisco de Macoris, Montecristi, San Pedro
de Macoris, San Juan, and Barahona; and
(d)   eight Type C workshops (only for preventive maintenance), located in Monte
Plata, Mao, Loma de Cabrera, San Crist6bal, Higuey, Cotui, Nagua, and Duverge.
1.08  The functions of each workshop depend on its classification, although the information
available on jobs in progress leaves much to be desired. Communication and coordination among
the various workshops is less than adequate, although terms of reference governing their



- 56 -
organization and functions were drawn up. Consultants are preparing a new organization and
functions for the workshops, reducing their number and potential capacity to coincide with the
gradual cutback in maintenance by force account.
1.09 Warehouses. DGM operates a central warehouse in Santo Domingo, set up as the lead
unit in charge of organizing and supervising the other warehouses and supplying them with spare
parts purchased by itself In the districts and subdistricts, DGM operates fourteen more
warehouse facilities, which hold a reduced inventory of spares that are requisitioned as necessary
for delivery to the workshops.
1.10  There is not the kind of communication between the central and satellite warehouses
which allows the stocks held in each of them to be determined at a given moment. Nor are
periodic checks made to ascertain whether inventory recorded as being in stock coincides with
actual holdings. Despite the merging of the two former General Directorates in 1987, there are
cases of duplication of facilities, making it advisable to carry out a study to determine which
should be retained. The consultants are also preparing a new warehousing plan consistent with
the staffing and equipment cutbacks referred to above.
1.11  Training. Personnel training began under the Second Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1784-DO), with the establishment of "training production units"
(UPEs) directed by Roy Jorgensen Associates, Inc., consultants. The training methodology
consisted of intensive theoretical instruction backed up by practical classes supervised and
conducted by previously trained instructors. The practical component involved maintenance of
road sections (as part of the mobile UPE) plus repair of equipment (as part of the mechanics
UPE). From 1981 to 1986, continuous financing was available for these training arrangements,
which included building and launching the Santa Caputa workshop in Sanchez. The results speak
for themselves: more than 600 individuals trained, some of them to the level of first class
mechanic; rehabilitation of 39 equipment units; and repairs on a total of 105 units.
1.12 Following the merger of the two General Directorates, training center operations were
discontinued, and the facility itself was dismantled in February 1990. As far as current problems
are concerned, which have to do mainly with equipment management, an operator training
program has been launched as part of the ongoing project, with another for mechanics to follow.
B.    Maintenance Management and Programs
2.01  Background: Resource allocations for road maintenance (routine and periodic) and
rehabilitation were adequate until approximately 1958, after which a process of steady
deterioration set in, reaching its lowest point in the early 70s. From 1976 to 1980 there was some
overall improvement, but between 1980 and 1986 overstaffing, in conjunction with the oil crisis,
which greatly reduced the country's reserves, resulted in a significant limit on the resources
available for the road sector, to the point that the maintenance battle was virtually lost (Graph 2).
2.02  Inadequate maintenance only accelerated the general degree of road deterioration, until
finally the whole network needed rehabilitation,. This was begun under Loan 2609-DO, which



- 57 -
included financing for the reconstruction of some of the most important highway sections. With
the backing of this loan -- and later that of Loan 33 50-DO, which was declared effective in
December 1992 -- the Dominican Government launched a massive road reconstruction/
rehabilitation offensive in 1987, which meant that there was once again some point to organizing
maintenance programs. By mid 1994, the policy of reconstruction or rehabilitation had returned
70% of the road system to a state of good or fair condition -- a figure projected to rise to 87% by
the end of 1997. In these circumstances, it makes very good sense to strengthen SEOPC
administratively and technically to monitor the execution of preventive maintenance tasks --
something that could not be done during earlier periods of technical assistance (1976-1987), when
the road system was markedly deteriorated.
Graph 2: Real Maintenance Expenditure / Optimal Maintenance Expenditure
14.
12
10
8-6                             mop0 
4                              M
0
1972        1982        1992        1995
IN Real Expenditure *Optimal Expenditure
2.03  Since its current road maintenance planning and programming capability is limited, the
DGM normally relies on the Department of Pavement Management and Studies (DAEP) and the
Directorate General of Investment Planning and Programming to draw up its annual budgets and
programs, although without the kind of annually updated survey of the road system condition that
would allow realistic budgeting for necessary activities. As a result of these shortcomings, the
annual budgets prepared for the last three years have been similar in terms of quantities of work
and cost estimates -- in other words, hardly more than a hollow formality. As regards the
monitoring and evaluation of program execution, the data the districts are supposed to send in to
the DGM Planning Unit are either incomplete or nonexistent, which means it is unable to make a
comparative analysis of programmed versus actual performance and therefore, to produce any ex
post evaluation.



- 58 -
2.04  The practice until quite recently was for SEOPC itself to execute the maintenance
program. Contracting out of periodic maintenance to private sector firm's began to gain ground
under Loan 2609-DO, increased significantly under Loan 3350-DO and is currently the norm in
the periodic maintenance of paved roads (resealing, resurfacing). Routine maintenance, however,
is carried out with SEOPC personnel and equipment, although not satisfactorily or efficiently.
Senior SEOPC management has fully accepted the need for a preventive maintenance system
which safeguards the investment already made, but it is still necessary to insist on this policy with
middle management and to set up the required organization. In a move to rectify present
maintenance planning and execution arrangements, the technical assistance consultants financed
under Loan 3350-DO are introducing a maintenance management system, recommending
procedures for the contracting out of preventive (routine) maintenance, and training the SEOPC
personnel who will be planning and monitoring maintenance programs in the future. The
proposed project would finance: (i) a pilot program to foster and develop the contracting out of
routine maintenance as a first step, and of all maintenance subsequently, and (ii) technical
assistance and goods required for completion of the necessary institutional development.
2.05 Future Management and Organization: In addition to contributing substantially to the
Government's ongoing road reconstruction/rehabilitation effort, Loan 3350-DO included two
important components focused on ensuring that the benefit of that effort would be sustainable: (a)
the previously mentioned technical assistance with introduction of a road maintenance
management system (SAMC) and preparation for the contracting out of routine maintenance; and
(b) a pavement technology transfer program (periodic maintenance). Both programs began in
early 1995 and are expected to conclude in 1997, with the following results:
(a)   institutionalization, within SEOPC, of a management system that will allow
programming, monitoring and evaluation of preventive and periodic road
maintenance;
(b)   implementation of contracting maintenance activities out to private sector
enterprises, strengthening of the current practice of contracting out present
periodic maintenance (sealing and surfacing), and introducing contracting out of
routine maintenance (including patching) -- programs for which the proposed
project includes financing;
(c)   technical and managerial upgrading of firms engaged in road maintenance, through
the transfer of appropriate technology, especially in selection of materials, use of
equipment and tools, operating and construction methods, and organization and
management;
(d)   establishment of a road maintenance fund, which guarantees the availability of
funds for programmed maintenance (through special accounts earmarked for the
deposit of user charges), and administration of this fund by a new road agency --
possibly a joint organization combining government and user representatives;



- 59 -
(e)    development of an ongoing training program for DGM personnel, focused on
recognition of the profession of "road maintenance specialist" under the provisions
of the Civil Service Act.
2.06 Management System. The road maintenance management system, under implementation
in the DGM with funds provided under Loan 3350-DO, follows the general outlines indicated
above and is being introduced in the following stages:
(a)    1995-2000: Restructuring of the road maintenance organization, with special
attention to be paid to:
(i)    preparation of the road condition inventory, including traffic data;
(ii)    cataloguing of job positions, introduction of the administrative career of
road maintenance specialist and preparation of a program for institutional
reorganization of the road maintenance system. These aspects will be kept
in time with the gradual implementation of maintenance by contract, which
will begin in 1997 and will be extended to the whole network by 2001
(Table A2.2).
Table A2.2: Maintenance Program, 1996-2001
Mam_na*~  C~nb*~t                     ~t~1Mi~xa...
1996        0.0              0.-     4,870.7     89,589,879    4,870.7       89,589,879
1997     1,000.0      17,114,076     3,902.7     63,110,885    4,902.7       80,224,961
1998     2,000.0      32,100,576     3,054.7     44,846,098    5,054.7       76,946,674
1999 1    3,000.0 1   47,274,2321   2,051.7      29,840,773    5,051.7       77,115,006
2000 1 4,000.01       60,410,563     1,052.7     14,745,134     5,052.7       75,445,976
2001 1    5,059.7 1   74,711,278          2/      4,382,552     5,059.7       79,093,830
1/     Amounts in 1995 DRS.
2/     SEOPC will carry out emergency maintenance (cave-ins, landslides, and the like) directly, either alone
or with assistance from contractors, besides serving as the administrative structure for the supervision and
monitoring of contracts and contractors.
(iii)    introduction at central and district levels of a road maintenance planning
and monitoring system to be used by both SEOPC and contractors for the
maintenance programs indicated for the transition period (197-2001) in
the appendix to this Annex.
(iv)    training of personnel for implementing and monitoring the routine
maintenance by contract program;
(v)     execution of the pilot program of routine maintenance by contract (1997-
2000) to be funded under the proposed project -- on the road sections
specifically selected for this purpose (Table A5.3, Annex 5);
(vi)    launching of productive training programs (in which participants carry out
assigned tasks similar to those they will perform in their jobs) for
operations personnel (administrators, technical inspectors, foremen,



- 60 -
equipment operators, monitoring clerks, cost-control and accounting
personnel, etc.).
(b)   2001 and beyond: From 2001 onwards, SEOPC will be directly responsible only
for emergency and non-programmable activities, roadworks in which contractors
evince no interest, and supervisory and inspection functions. SEOPC will also
retain responsibility for planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation of
results.
2.07 Concerning equipment, workshop and training management, the action plan scheduled for
the period from 1997 to 2000 consists of: (i) removal of non-operational equipment units from the
fleet, and adjustment of fleet size and composition to adequately cover highway maintenance
(emergencies + works of no interest to contractors) and rural road maintenance; (ii) rehabilitation
of essential equipment; (iii) selection and conditioning of workshop and warehouse facilities,
chiefly those involved in preventive maintenance and minor repairs; and (iv) establishment of a
training entity and training program, with support from equipment suppliers.
2.08 Future Management and Organization Structure. Charts I and II show, respectively,
an initial proposal for DGM's management structure and the corresponding organization chart.
2.09 Resource Control. The financial resources required to ensure an acceptable level of
maintenance (routine and periodic) amount to approximately DR$160 million (US$13 million) per
year. This sum is large enough to warrant not only management and execution of the related
works programs but also the backing of decisions to ensure that those funds are spent rationally
and efficiently. In addition, the programming and budgeting for all maintenance work, whether
preventive or periodic, is approved by the Executive Branch and endorsed by the Congress via
enactment of each year's Budget Law. This means that the Office of the Inspector General
('Contralor") of the Republic has to verify -- at least through financial audits -- that budgetary
commitments have been fulfilled. Furthennore, the proposed project calls for introduction of both
technical and financial audit by independent technical and financial auditors (see main text, paras.
1.29, 2.06 and 3.07, and Annex 11.) to monitor the impact on maintenance expenditures and
activities of the proposed reforms.



- 61 -
Chart I
DGM's Management Structure
Planning                       Structure                      Operation                      Evaluation
_|CInstitutionaltu
Developmnent 
Annual                              :                         Construction
Programning                            :                         Contracting   t --.
and stratgics.
_   Policies:
Annual Prog _rnm                                                  Maintenance                  FZopnent
and Budget                            .                  7      Contracting      -              Eatij
Fortnightly /                         .                           Routine
Weekly                                                    0 b Maintenance by 4 - .
Progran Sning                                                   Force Account



- 62 -
STAGE 1                                                 Chart 11
(1997-2000)
.           .   .
Sub-Direcci6n General de
Mantenimbento de Carreteras y
Caminos Vecinales
Asso
Asesores~Secio SeAMCde                                             5ce
Carreteras          Normas          v.i
Departamento de                                          Departamento
!CanrOdOperaciores 1                                       Admi
Control de   Control TratiajAomnsstativ
Contratos         Admlnistraoldn y             | Seccdn Cortrol              Secci6n Control
Mantenimhento         Emergencias                      Personal                   Financiero
......  ......    .  ....  ......,,.I                                            .
| Diaato Vial       Dasristo Viala                         Distrito Vial      Ditnto Vial
| Santa DominDo        Santago                                La Vea                Azua
... .. .................. ............   ......... . ......... .. . . .   ..'   ...    ........
*z+h>.:jN2R PI*+



- 63 -
STAGE 2                                             Chart 11
(Depu6s del 2000)
.......... ...... ................................ ..... ..... ...  ....
Consejo Dlrectores del Fondo
Nacional de Manterimiento Vial
(CDF)
Director Ejecutivo de la Oficina
Nacional de Mantenimiento Vial
(ONMV)
Asistente del Director |s o
|Asesores Tecni                                            Departamento de PlanifCcacirn y
Programaci6n
IDDepartamento                                  do
Administrativo 7 -                ~~Sercion           Secci6n de             Seccion
.             ~~~~~~~~Estadisticas    Planes y           Analisis de
i                 l                     ~~~~~~~ ~          ~~~~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~~Basicas  Programas  Costos
Secci6n Cortrol            Secci6n Control
Personal                  Fire aciero                Rnventaio Vial         nalisis HDM       Regoiostnlo  de
*Fltot y Costco      * Presupuestos       Ac%ndadess
Un-ida                         -~~~~~~~~~Ccosto Operaci6n    *pdniboas   -COStD Actbvidades
Unidad de   E                 *~~~~~~~~~~~~~Carpa por Eje   Plan Multianual    *Normas Epecucion
IEntrenamientoI........ ..T
t  Departamento de V
Control Opemaciones                           .
tRendimientos~~   ~egina                   Reioa
........  ...   .............................................    .....................   ..  .................................. ...  ..   .  ... .....   ..  
-Supervis&d Contrafttn
*Aprobwi6n de Pagos
-Contrd Dereho de Ma
-Control de Accesos



-64 -
1997
Routine Maintenanoe Proram
10 BroheooAafMtioo               75 0 m2         236,971  20.0% 11,404.042  4,462,633   2,375,4S8 |18,192,18| 2,SS7,070 7,7,1i6.5S   578,S72   4,545,541  22.727,703
11 Nivobao;onde*uperficb no pavime  2S,400 0 m2  49,726,310  20.0%    201,471  1,102,125  3,312,581  4,B616f,177    50,368  275,631   828,146   1.154,044  5.770,221
12 Esoanificacion V roaoond, de ba *up  14,000 0 m2  526,602   0.0%     0     16,838     52,068    68,896        0        0         0          0         68,896
14 Aoondbicon-mbntoe deopagec  12,400.0 m2       785,093  20.0%         0    21,684      35,020    56,704        0    5,421      8,755     14,176        70,880
19 Rofuenzo do grave             120 0 m2        497,263| 20.0%  1,679,556  2,310,218  2,973,766  6.963,640   419,889  577,555   743.441   1,740,885   8.704,425
20 Manteriiminto moodnico de ounota  2.0 km        2,923| 20.0%         0   5666,659   1,219,493  1.786,152      0  141,666   304,873    446,538       2,232,690
21 Mantonimionto manual do ounotas  0.3 km         2923| 20.0%          0  7,379.237  3,710,794 11.080.031       0 1,844,809   927,688   2,772,608    13,862,539
22 Mantonimiento do ourrdot rovoatid  0.6 km        89   ZO.0%          0  1,073,251    351 ,508  1,424,166      0  26S,3l4    S7,S77    35S,7S7       7,790,956
23 Mantonimionto do aloantarillas  3.0 Units       3,598  20.0%         0   806,486    308,056  1,114,542        0  201,621    77.014    278,636       1,393,178
30 Contro\ manual dle bvogotaoion  0.8 Ha. Vog.    5,825  20.0%         0  4,886,907   1,869,996  6,765.904      0 1,223,977   467,499   1,691,476     8,457,380
31 Control mec nioo de ba vogotaoidn  8.0 Ha. Vog   8,738  20.0%        0    250,672    778,998  1.029,670       0   62,668   194.750    257,418       1,287.088
40 Senializaojdn                  36.0 km            430  20.0%    400,670   416,914    265,309  1,082,893   100,168  104,228    66,327    270,723     1,353,616
50 Mantonimionto do puorlto.     197.0 ml          20.934  20.0%    345,202   97,638    132,532    675,372    86,300   24,409    33.133    143,843      719.215
60 Romoci6n do doaprendimiontos    2.0 UnWld         575   0.0%         0   348,990    906,551  1,255,540        0        0          0         0       1,2556,40
71 Almaconamionto de matorialee   13.0 dis-homh     7,628  20.0%        0   402,613   1,484,833  1,881,646       0  100,653   371,233    411,8S7       2,35S,433
79 Otroa gastos *dmin.          1/   % cost-di     -     100.0%  1,262,785  2,173,668   1,774,538  5,210,991   297,021 2,079,148   594.042   2,970,212  8,181,202
' -'"" ';"'. '" : J '  "'       . . . .. . . .... . . .. .   .   .   . . . . . .   .   f. . . . ....... - '1'1''''---
...      ..... .. .. ..S.#                                                                            _____~4h*~                                   1~
1/ Otros gastos *dmnigatrativos
|Contrato r21.0%1
|Admbintracion            |    9.0%|



- 65 -
1998
Routine Maintenance Pro ram
~~4~~~r~~~hce   Aof~~~~~~~~./  Prod........  ::.. ....:....   X.                                        .
N':.   21   9   X   S   S  M  tS  tm  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::
10 Asphalt Patching               75.0 m2         222,743  40.0%   8,039,521  3,146,028  1,632,353  12,817,902    5,359,681   2,097,352    1,088,235   8,545,268   21,363,169
11 Unpaved Surface Leveling   25,4000 m2       49,741,436  4000%     151,149    826,845  2,485,191   3,463,186    100,766    551,230   1,656,794   2,308,791     5,771,977
12 Scarifwitbon nd Surfaoe Recond  14,000 0 m2    417,644   0.0%          0      13,354    41,287      54,641           0          0           0           0       54,641
14 Shoutdora Reconditioning   12,400.0 m2         722,720  40.0%          0      14,971     24,178     39,149           0       9,981      16,119     26,100       65,249
19 Regravelling                  120.0 m2         515,612  40.0%   1,306,149  1,796,600  2,312,625   5,415,374    870,766   1,197,733    1,541,750   3,610,250    9,025,624
20 Ditches Mechanical Maintenanoo  2.0 km           3,315  40.0%           0    481,987  1,037,274   1,519,262          0    321,325      691,516   1,012,841    2,532,103
21 Ditohes Manual Mairtenance      0.3 km           2,712  40.0%           0  5,135,413  2,582,443   7,717,857          0   3,423,609    1,721,629   5,145,238    12,863,095
22 Lined Ditches Maintenance       0.6 km             931  40.0%           0    881,767    288,792   1,170,559          0    587,845      192,528    780,373     1,950,932
23 Sewers Maintenanca              3.0 Units        4.281  40.0%           0    719,558    274,853    994,411           0    479,706      183,235    662,941     1,657,351
30 Manual Vegetaion Control        0.8 Ha. Veg.     3,015  40.0%           0  1,900,763    725,998   2,826,762          0   1,267,176     483,999   1,751,175    4,377,936
31 Mechanioal Vegetation Control   8.0 Ha. Veg     13,569  40.0%           0    291,959    907,303   1,199.262          0    194,639      604,869    799,508     1,998,771
40 Signalization                  36.0 km             490  40.0%     342,590    356,479    226,850    925,920     228,394     237,653     151,234    617,280     1,543,200
50 Bridge Maitenanco             197.0 ml          21,583  40.0%     266,928     75,499    102,481    444.908     177,952      50,332      68,321    296,606       741,513
60 Earth Slide Removal             2.0 Units          593   0.0%           0    359,810    934,657   1,294,467          0           0           0          0     1,294,467
71 Materiael Storage              13.0 dia-homb     7,864  40.0%           0    311,322  1,148,228   1,459,550          0    207,548      765,486    973,033    2,432,584
79 Other Admin. Expenses         1/   % cost-di     -     100.0%     909,570  1,468,112  1.325,206   3,702,889    557,117   3,899,822    1,114,235   5,571,174   9,274,063
...     ..   . .. .                                                 .. .. .. ..
1I Other Adminiatrativo Expes
Controat                     21.0%
rForce Account           9I0%



- 66 -
1999
Routine Maintenance Program
10 Asphalt Patching                75.0 m2           224,710   60.0%   5,406.999   2,115,868    1,097,843       8,620,709    8,110,498   3,173,802    1,646,764    12,931,064   21,551,774
11 Unpeved Surface Leveling     25,400.0 m2       48,359,900   60.0%     97,968     535,920     1,610,778       2,244,665      146,951    803,880    2,416,167      3,366,998    5,611,664
12 Scawification and Surface Recond.   14,000.0 m2   280,887    0.0%          0       8,981        27,768          36,749            0          0            0             0      36,749
14 Shouldr Reconditioning       12,400.0 m2          607,844   60.0%          0       8,394        13,557          21,951           0      12,591       20,335        32,927      54,878
19 Regraveling                     120.0 m2          530,779   60.0%    896,380   1,232,965     1,587,101       3,716,447    1,344,570   1,849,448    2,380,652     5,574,670    9,291,116
20 Ditchev Mechanical Maintennce     2.0 km            3,614   60.0%          0    350,328        753,934       1,104,262            0    525,492    1,130,900      1,656,393    2,760,654
21 Ditchee Manual Meintenanca       0.3 km             2,410   60.0%          0   3,041,402     1,529,429       4,670,830            0   4,562,103    2,294,143     6,856,245   11,427,076
22 Lined Ditches Maintenance        0.6 km              986   60.0%           0    622,055        203,732         825,787            0    933,082      305,598      1,238,680    2,064,467
23 Sewre Maintenanm                 3.0 Unite          5,134   60.0%          0    575,306        219,761         795,058            0    862,957      329,627      1,192,585    1,987,641
30 Manual Vegetation Control        0.8 Ha. Veg.       2,416   60.0%          0   1,015,161       387,742       1,402,903            0   1,522,742     581,613      2,104,366    3,507,258
31 Mechanical Veogetation Control   8.0 Ha. Veog      14,494   60.0%          0    207,906        646,098         854,004            0    311,859      969,147      1,281,006    2,135,010
40 Signalization                   36.0 km              493   60.0%     229,736     239,050       192,123         620,909      344,604     358,575     228,184       931,363    1,552,272
50 Bridge Maintenance             197.0 ml            21,571   60.0%    177,848      50,303        68,280         296,429      266,770      75,454     102,420       444,644      741,073
60 Earth Slide Removal              2.0 Unit            593    0.0%           0    369.596        934,102       1,293,698            0          0            0             0    1,293,698
71 Materials Storage                13.0 dia-homb      7,859   60.0%          0     207,425       766,031         972,456            0    311,137    1,147,547      1,458,684    2,431,140
79 Other Admin. Expenees 1s             % coat-dir .         100.0%     612,804     951,359       899,754       2,463,917      820,462   5,743,233    1,640,924     8,204,619   10,668,536
I/ Other Administreove Expense
Contract                       21.0%
Force Account                   9.0%



- 67 -
2000
Routine Maintenance Program
'':'" "''"'"''''~~~~~~~~.'.'':'v:....,,,..... ...........     .....  S...
*" "  4' oq...........tc                                             .....     
,=.... ,                                ,  ... .....  ..,..                     ... .                ...
10 AsphaltPatahing                   750 m2           226,023  800%  2,719,300 1,064,117   552,129   4,335,546 10,877,198   4,256,468  2,208,517   17,342,184    21,677,730
11 Unpavad Surface Leveling      25,4000 m2        48,046,140  800%       48,666   266,221   800,164   1,115,051    194,664   1,064,886  3,200,654   4,460,204     5,575,255
12 Scarification and Surface Recond    14,000.0 m2    141,264   0.0%           0     4,517    13,965     18,482          0           0          0            0        18,482
14 Shoulders Reconditioning      12,400.0 m2          736,434  80.0%           0     5,085     8,212     13,297          0      20,340      32,850      53,190        66,487
19 Regravelling                     120.0 m2          517,863  80.0%    437,283   601,480   774,239   1,813,002   1,749,133   2,405,921  3,096,956    7,252,010    9,065,012
20 Ditches Mechanical Maintenance     2.0 km            3,916  80.0%           0   189,799   408,462    598,260           0     759,195  1,633,846   2,393,041     2,991,301
21 Ditches Manual Maintenance         0.3 km             2,109  80.0%          0 1,330,877   669,257   2,000,134          0   5,323,507  2,677,030   8,000,536    10,000,671
22 Lined Ditches Maintenanoe          0.6 km              931  80.0%           0   293,806    96,226    390,032           0   1,175,225    384,904    1,560,128    1,950,160
23 Sawer Maintenance                  3.0 Units         5,135  80.0%           0   287,709   109,898    397,607           0   1,150,838    439,590   1,590,428     1,988,035
30 Manual Vegetation Control          0.8 Ha. Veg.       1,210  80.0%          0   254,284    97,124    351,408           0   1,017,137    388,496    1,405,634     1,757,042
31 Mechanical Vegetation Control      8.0 Ha. Vog       16,338  80.0%          0   117,175   364,137    481,312           0    468,699  1,456,549    1,925,249     2,406,561
40 Signalization                     36.0 km              558  80.0%    129,982   135,251    86,069    351,302    519,928       541,006    344,276    1,405,210     1,756,512
50 Bridge Maintenance               197.0 ml           21,575  80.0%      88,941    25,156    34,147    148,244    355,763      100,625    136,587     592,976       741,220
60 Earth Slide Removal                2.0 Unite           593   0.0%           0  359,667   934,287   1,293,954           0           0          0           0      1,293,954
71 Materiab Storage                  13.0 dia-homb       7,861  80.0%          0   103,733   382,591    486,324           0    414,931   1,530,366    1,945,297    2,431,621
79 Other Admin Exxpens              1/    % coat-dir    -      100 0%    308,175   453,499   479,782   1,241,456  1,048,448   7,339,134  2,096,896   10,484,478    11,725,934
:-'__..:;..... ..... .....__ :,                                                         :           ..' .:.:. ......              -  _  .__
1/ Other Administrative Expensee
Contract                         21.0%
Force Account                     9.0%



- 68 -
2001
Routine Maintenance Progran
.                                                                                                                               ,    ,   .   "   .,  *   ....... . , 4 ,, , ,,. ................................... . ....... _ a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . . .   . . . . . . .     . . . ..
','''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i2. .    ... ---iXEE=,.,...... .......                                                                                                                      ... ....  "'"i''''
10 Asphalt Patching                      75.0 m2              255,753    100.0%            0             0             0               0     15,384,936    6,020,437    3,123,773   24,529,146         24,529,146
11 Unpaved Surface Levling           25,4000 m2            48,007,565      90.0%      24,313       133,004       399,761        557,078         218,821     1,197,035    3,597,845      5,013,701        5,570,779
12 Scarification end Surface Recond  14,000.0 m2                    0       0.0%           0             0             0               0              0             0             0             0                0
14 Shoulders Reconditioning          12,400.0 m2              743,918    100.0%            0             0             0               0              0        25,683       41,480         67,163           67,163
19 Regrovelling                         120.0 m2              508,315      90.0%     214,611       295,196       379,983        889,789       1,931,497     2,656,761    3,419,844      8,008,102        8,897,891
20 Ditchez Mechanicel Maintenance          2.0 km               4,224    100.0%             0            0             0               0               0    1,023,409    2,202,455      3,225,864        3,225,864
21 Ditches Manual Maintenance             0.3 km                1,810      90.0%            0      571,166       287,222         858,388               0    5,140,493    2,584,998      7,725,491        8,583,879
22 Lined Ditches Maintenance              0.6 km                  987    100.0%             0            0             0               0               0    1,557,600      510,137      2,067,736        2,067,736
23 Sewers Maintenance                     3.0 Unite             5,713    100.0%             0            0             0               0               0    1,600,600      611,388      2,211,988        2,211,988
30 Manual Vegetation Control              0.8 Ha. Veg.          1,214      90.0%            0      127,493        48,696         176,189               0    1,147,438      438,265      1,585,704        1,761,893
31 Mechanical Vegetation Control          8.0 Ha. Veg          16,383    100.0%             0            0             0               0               0      587,492    1,825,713      2,413,205        2,413,205
40 Signalization                         36.0 km                  623    100.0%             0            0             0               0        726,317       755,763       480,940     1,963,020        1,963,020
50 Bridge Meintenance                   197.0 ml               21,605    100.0%             0            0             0               0        445,320       125,956       170,971       742,247          742,247
60 E.th Slide Removal                      2.0 Units              593       0.0%            0      360,166       935,581       1,295,747               0             0            0             0        1,295,747
71 Materials Storage                     13.0 dis-homb          7,872      90.0%            0       51,938       191,561         243,499               0      467,444    1,724,046      2,191,491        2,434,990
79 Other Admin. Expenses               1/     % cost-di        -          100.0%      21,503       138,507       201,852         361,862       1,296,642    9,076,494    2,593,284   12,966,420         13,328,282
___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ __   __ ___  ___   __  ___  __  ___   ___  __        21 AS~ ....S .   .......__                                  __  _   _ _....                    .....  r......._         __
I1 Other Administrative Expenses
Contract                            21.0%
Force Account                         9.0%



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.    The Bank's past involvement in the road transport sub-sector dates back to 1973,
when it acted as the executing agency for the UNDP-financed Highway Rehabilitation and
Administration Study. Between 1976 and 1985, three highway projects were financed
under Bank loans, totaling US$65 million, to improve the condition of some 320 kmi, or
about six percent of the highway network. Those projects were: the First Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project; the Emergency Road Reconstruction Project;
and, the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project.
2.    The First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1316-DO, US$5
million, 1976) provided for the reconstruction of a section of the Duarte highway
connecting the capital with Santiago, the second largest city. Other components were a
bridge rehabilitation program and support to the Road Maintenance Directorate of
SEOPC. The Project Performance Audit Report No. 3716 (Board Doc. No. Sec. M-81-
987) of 1981 indicated that project implementation generally developed as planned, but
price increases forced a reduction in the scope of the project since it took 2.5 years to
achieve congressional ratification and effectiveness of the loan.
3.    The second Bank operation was an Emergency Road Reconstruction Project
(Loan 1783-DO, US$25 million, 1980), which was approved by the Bank in the wake of
the September 1979 hurricane. It supported reconstruction of 150 km of hurricane-
damaged roads connecting agricultural areas in the northwest with Santiago and in the
southwest with Santo Domingo. Because of its emergency nature, the loan was approved
by the Bank before engineering designs were available for the project. When these were
later completed and bids were received, it became evident, even after lowering standards
to obtain cost savings, that project costs would be about 50% above those estimated at
loan approval. The Project Completion Report (December 1984) indicates that beginning
implementation of the project on the basis of incomplete engineering work was the
primary cause of later delays and cost increases, but that the project, when completed,
remained economically justified.
4.    The third road project was the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project (Loan 1784-DO, US$35 million, 1980), amended in 1983 to provide the necessary
financing to complete the Emergency Project's road works. The amendment, resulting in
the expenditure of some of the funds originally intended for the Second Road Maintenance
and Reconstruction Project, caused, in turn, an unfinanced gap for civil works originally
included in that project. To remedy this, one of the main objectives of the Third (fourth
project) Road Reconstruction Project was to close the financing gap to complete
reconstruction of the 150 km that were not finished under the Loan 1784-DO.



- 70 -
5.   In 1986 the fourth operation, the Third Road Reconstruction Project (Loan 2609-
DO, US$35.8 million) was approved. It provided financing for: reconstruction of 150 km
of highways that were started under Loan 1784-DO, and about 60 km of other high-
priority highways; purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts; consulting
services for construction supervision; a transport planning study; and assistance in training
the Pavement Division staff of DGPP and in organizing workshops and stores. Generally,
the project was executed as planned and completed on December 31, 1993.
6.    The project's scope was appropriate for the country's needs but its implementation
was beset by problems which delayed its completion. Most of the roads, especially those
added to the road program in 1990, were finished in good time. However, the completion
of some reconstruction works contracted in 1981 took about six to ten years (1981-1991)
instead of four, as originally scheduled. In retrospect, the problems with these roads could
have been avoided had more attention been given during project preparation to avoid
repetition of problems experienced by the SEOPC (which hindered implementation of
preceding Bank financed projects) namely, starting project implementation with
inadequately prepared engineering and deficient planning and programming for the
execution of the road works initially included in the project. On the other hand,
engineering designs and procurement procedures prepared for the reconstruction works
that were added to the works program in 1990 improved markedly and the works were
successfully carried out within their allocated budgets, under the supervision of a
competent local consulting firm.
7.    The lessons learned confirm that to ensure successful implementation of Bank
projects it is necessary, during the project preparation stage, to emphasize the need for
uncompromising quality of engineering designs and contracting qualified contractors and
consultants. Other issues which should have been addressed concerned the Borrowers'
sense of ownership of some project components (in particular the Transport Plan) and its
commitment to support and achieve the agreed project objectives for those components by
providing the required human and financial resources and logistic support. The project
also demonstrated the benefit of maintaining an open and productive dialogue with the
Borrower, which apparently resulted in a more intensive involvement of SEOPC's higher
level staff in the execution of the project, facilitating the project's implementation and
ensuring close collaboration with the pre>ect executing agency.
8.    The Fifth Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan 3350-DO, US$79
million, 1991) was declared effective on December 2, 1992. The project comprises: (a)
rehabilitation of about 830 km of roads and supervision of these works; (b) a technology
transfer program on pavements, including technical assistance and civil works; (c) bridge
and workshop rehabilitation; (d) equipment rehabilitation; (e) acquisition of road signaling
materials, maintenance equipment and scales for vehicle weight control; and (f) technical
assistance for training SEOPC's maintenance staff, road maintenance management, an
urban transport study, a local construction industry study and engineering services for
road design.



- 71 -
9.    Past lessons learned have helped to successfully implement this project.
Prequalification of contractors and bidding documents were agreed at negotiations; ICB
procedures applied to all civil works of the road rehabilitation program; engineering
designs were prepared well in advance to the bidding process; and the open dialogue with
the Borrower continued. As a result, procurement is already completed; the contract for
the pavement technology transfer program (a major component) is satisfactorily
underway; compliance with loan covenants and the Action Plan is acceptable; and about
75% of the loan is already disbursed.
10.   However, the proceeds of the Loan will only reach to finance about 70% of the
length of highway rehabilitation originally programmed. The main reasons for this
reduction are cost increases for civil works, due to higher unit costs and the additional
road deterioration that took place since the project was appraised and, above all, the
upgrade of most of the works from rehabilitation to reconstruction. On the other hand, the
SEOPC rehabilitated more than 900 km in the same period with local funds, which is more
than the length finally not financed by the Loan. The technology transfer program, a
single component and the biggest contract of the project (including about 500 Km of
highway resurfacing) is being implemented as planned and within the resources allocated
in the Loan.






- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Dominican Republic
National Highway Project
DETAILED PROJECT COST
Table AS.I Highway Widening, Bridge and By-Pass Reconstruction and Highway Construction
(Cost in US$ Million)
N' Link Code   Project Descriptions                        Lengt"=)        Region            Cost
A.             Highwav Widenln a 
11.004.010   Santo Domingo-San Isidro                           6.3    Capital            4.0
12.002.020   BajosdeHaina-Refinaia                              1.7    Capital             1.1
21.001.170..2 Santiago-Navarrete                               20.3     Cibao             15.9
BR             BridEe and Hahwavy By-pass Construction
b.1 Brld                                                           (i)
Bani (Rio Bani) -New-                                         150.0      Sur               1.8
S.P. Macorls (Rio Higuamo) -New-                              261.0      Este             4.0
La Romana (Ro Dulce) -New-                                    152.8      Este              1.3
Montecristi (Rio Yaque del Norte) -Widening-                      -   Noroeste            0 1
563.8                       7.2
b.2 lvasses and Thtersectlons 
Bani 1/                                                         3.7      Sur              0.2
S.P. Macois                                                    12.3      Este             4.6
La Romana                                                       8.0      Este             4.3
24.0                       9.1
Sub-component B. Total Cost:
1/. hprovanent of the existing urban section
C.             Hiehwav Reconstruction                            1689                        283
13.023.050..0 Boronga-Boya-Sabana Grande de Boya               17.2    Capital            3.4
13.023.070   Sabana Grande de Boy.-Dofia Maria                 21,9    Capital            3.5
13.023.080   DoAa Marla-Cevicos                                 8.4     Cibao             1.5
13.110.060   Don Juan-Dofia Maria                              20.0    Capital            4.5
15.004.140.1 C/ElPintado-Higuey                                28.4      Este             4.3
16.101.010-0 LaRomana-C/Guerrero-Guaymate-ElPintado            35A       Este             4.4
N/A         Acceso Refmeria-Refmiera                            3.2    Capital             1.1
24.216.020   Esperanza-Mao                                     11.0     Cibao             2.0
31.023.140   Rinc6n-Cruce el Pino                              10.4     Cibao             2.0
33.132.140   San Francisco-Tenares                             13.0     Cibao              1.6



- 74 -
Table A5.2 Elighway Asphalt Resurfacing Usin  New Technologies
C/C 046 (C/Cabral)-Barahona             3.7  29811  2.2  12    OVAC          0.216
Salcedo-Tenares                         6.5  3259  3.9   6       RSAC        0.057
Moca-Salcedo                           15.0  3259   3.9   6      RSAC        0.131
C/C 048-C/C 046 (C/Cabral)              8.0  1425  2.2  12    OVAC           0.468
Santiago-Licey al Medio                 7.7  5133  4.4  12    OVAC           0.464
Cruce el 15-Canoa                      16.5  1425  2.3  12    OVAC           0.965
Canoa-C/C 048 (C/Palo Alto)             6.6  1425  2.2  12    OVAC           0.386
Licey al Medio-C/C 210-Moca             8.2  3259  4.4  12    OVAC           0.494
Moca-C/C 014                            1.7  2801   3.8  14    CMCA          0.059
C/C 004-C/C 003 (Boca Chica)            4.7  1234  2.8   8       RSAC        0.041
C/001 (La Vega)-Cutupu-Moca            19.8  2792  3.2   8    OVAC           1.193
Tenares-Joba Arriba                    32.5   739  4.4   5       RSAC        0.244
Joba Arriba-Gaspar Hernandez           11.6   739  4.0   5       RSAC        0.087
San Victor-El Caimito                  13.1   666  4.5  14    CMAC           0.422
C/C 014-San Victor                      6.4  1021  4.4  14    CMCA           0.207
C/ 018 (Mao)-Pueblo Nuevo               8.7   980  4.5  12    CMST           0.309
El Cainiito-Sabaneta de YAsica         27.5   666  4.5  14    CMAC           0.887
Pueblo Nuevo-C/C 031 (Guayubin)        31.4   757   3.7  12    CMST          1.114
San Juan-Las Matas de Farfan          31.2   762  4.5   7    CMAC            1.090
C/C 048-C/C 046 (C/Salinas)             9.0   425  4.5  14    CMAC           0.326
Santa Maria-C/C 045 Copey              10.3   396   5.2  12    CMST          0.366
C/C 045 Copey-Acc P. Salcedo            6.6   396   5.2  12    CMST          0.234
Galvan-Batey 2                         12.1   448  4.0   7       RSAC        0.102
Acc P. Salcedo-Puerto Manzanillo        2.1   321  5.2  12    CMST           0.075
Batey 2-C/C 044 (Palo Alto)            20.6   448  4.0   7       RSAC        0.175
Villa Jaragua-Neyba-Galvn             15.5   424  4.0   7       RSAC        0.132
C/C 044 Cabral-C/ 518 (Salinas)        21.4   425  4.0   7       RSAC        0.182
C/C 001-C/Bayacanes-Jarabacoa         21,2   436  4.0   7        RSAC        0.180
Cruce el 15-C/C Padre Las Casas        19.8  1537  3.3  10    OVAC           1.107
C/C 231 Matas Sta Cruz-S. Maria        17.1   396  4.9  12    CMST           0.607
C/C031 (Guayubin)-C/C231 Mata S.C.    12.0   396  4.9  12    CMST            0.426
C/C Padre Las Casas-San Juan          44.2  1537  3.2  10    OVAC            2.472
La Descubierta- Villa Jaragua          29.1   419  3.0C   7      RSAC        0.247
Hato Mayor-El Valle-Sabana de la Mar    41.8   419  4.0   5      DTST        0.611
C/C 518 (C/Salinas)-Duvergd            18.7   405  4.0   7       RSAC        0.159
Boca Cach6n-La Descubierta             16.2   398  4.0   7    RSAC           0.138
Jimani-Boca Cach6n                      7.8   398  4.0   7       RSAC        0.066
Duverg&Jimani                          41.6   373  4.0   7       RSAC        0.354
TOTAL                                627.9                                  16.793
DTST  Double Asphalt Treatmnent over Asphalt Treatment Surface
RSAC = Resealing over Asphalt Concrete Surface
CMST = 25 mm of Asphalt Cold Mix over Asphalt Treatment Surface
CMAC = 25 nmn of Asphalt Cold Mix over Asphalt Concrete Surface
OVAC = 40 mm of Asphalt Concrete Overlay over Asphalt Concrete Surface



- 75 -
Table A5.3 Pilot Program of Routine Maintenance by Contract
Group 1. Capital v Sur-Oeste
11.002.010  Santo Domingo-BajosdeHaina                         3.4  3,400.00     11,560.00
12.002.020  Bajos de Haina-San Crist6bal                       9.2  2,700.00     24,840.00
12.002.030  San Crist6bal-Acc Cambita Garabito                 1.4  2,200.00      3,080.00
12.001040  Ace Cambita Garabito-Acc Valdesia                   9.6  2,200.00     21,120.00
12.002.050  Acc Valdesia-Puente Nizao                          7.3  2,200.00     16,060.00
12.002.060  Puente Nizao-Bani                                 13.2  2,200.00     29,040.00
1 .o02Ao1o  Santo Dorningo-San Crist6bal (Nueva)              19.6  3,400.00    66,640.00
63.7              172.340.00
Groun 2. Este
11.004.030  San Isidro-C/Guerra                                1.3  2,200.00      2,860.00
11.0o4.o40  C/Guerra-C/C811(AccBocaChica)                     18.8  2,200.00     41,360.00
11.004.050  C/C 811 (Acc Boca Chica)-C/C 807 (C/Cayacoa)      10.2  2,200.00     22,440.00
16.004.o6   C/C 807 (C/Cayacoa)-Puente Rio Higuamo            16.1  2,200.00    35,420.00
46.4              102,080.00
Groun 3. Este (Litoral Sur)
11.003.040  Rotonda Boca Chica-Guayacanes                     15.6  2,200.00    34,320.00
16.003.050  Guayacanes-Juan Dolio                              4.5  2,200.00      9,900.00
16.003.060  Juan Dolio-S.P. Macoris                           13.3  2,200.00    29,260.00
16.003.070  S.P. Macoris-Puente Rio Soco                       9.5   1,900.00    18,050.00
16.003.080  Puente Rio Soco-La Romana                         22.8  1,900.00    43,320.00
65.7              134 850.00
Groun 4. Norte v Litoral Norte
21.005.010  C/C 001 (Ace Navarrete)-EI Tunel                  10.5  2,200.00     23,100.00
23.005.o2o  El Tunel-Acc Imbert                               10.1  2,200.00     22,220.00
23.oo5.030  Acc Imbert-Puerto Plata                           22.2  2,200.00    48,840.00
23.oo5.040  Puerto Plata-C/C025 (Gran Parada)                  9.2  2,200.00     20,240.00
23.005.050  Gran Parada-Acc Aeropuerto                         8.9  2,200.00     19,580.00
23.005.060  Acc Aeropuerto-Sosua                               7.4  2,200.00     16,280.00
23.005.070  Sosua-C/C021 (Sabaneta Yasica)                    22.3  1,900.00     42,370.00
34.005.090  Gaspar Hemandez-Rio San Juan                      26.9  1,900.00     51,110.00
34.005.100  Rio San Juan-Acc. Cabrera                         21.2  1,900.00     40,280.00
34.005.110  Acc. Cabrera-Las Gordas                           15.7  1,900.00     29,830.00
34.005.120  Las Gordas-Ent. Nagua                             19.8  1,900.00     37,620.00
34.005.130  Nagua-Gran Estero                                 16.6  1,900.00     31,540.00
34.005.140  Gran Estero-Acc. Sanchez                          17.6  1,900.00     33,440.00
34.005.150  Acc. Sanchez-Arroyo Barril                        19.6  1,900.00     37,240.00
34.005.160  Arroyo Barril-Samana                              11.7  1,900.00     22,230.00
239.7              475,920.00
Groun 5. Nor-Central
33.132.060  San Francisco-Ace Pimentel                        19.1  1,900.00     36,290.00
33.132.070  Ace Pimentel-Castillo                             10.0  1,900.00     19,000.00
33.132.080  Castillo-Ace Villa Riva                           10.0  1,900.00     19,000.00
34.132.090  Ace Villa Riva-Nagua                              24.1  1,900.00     45,790.00
21.001.210  Ent. Navarrete-C/C216 (Esperanza)                 11.1  2,200.00     24,420.00
24.001.220  Esperanza-C/C029 (C/Guayacanes)                   10.3  2,200.00     22,660.00
24.001.230  C/Guayacanes-Hatillo Palma                        15.7  2,200.00     34,540.00
24.001.240  Hatillo Palma-C/C031 (Villa Sinda)                22.0  2,200.00     48,400.00
25.001.250  Villa Sinda-Ent. Villa Vasquez                     4.7  2,200.00     10,340.00
25.001.260  Villa Vasquez-Acc. Castafluela                     2.2  2,200.00      4,840.00
25.001.2?0  Ace. Castahluela-Montecristi                      22.0  2,200.00     48,400.00
151.2              313,680.00
Grounp. S6r
41.002.070  BanI-C/C041 (C/Oooa)                              16.3  2,200.00     35,860.00
41.001080  C/041 (C/Ocoa)-Azua                                31.0  2,200.00     68,200.00
41.041.010  C/C002(C/Ocoa)-San Jose de Ocoa                   26.0  1,900.00    49,400.00
73.3              153,460.001
JOE. year totak 1/                                           640.0             1,352,330.001
I /The four-yeer prognun cost i USS 5,409,320 and the price oatibogucy resme uuomt is US$ 537.686
August 1995



- 76 -
Table A5.4 Informative Signaiization
DUARTE HIGHWAY
UNITS                        LOCATION                         UNIT COST          TOTAL COST
1       a) Santo Domingo                                         113,353.32           113,353.32
3       b) Junction Piedra Blanca                                352,948.50           352,948.50
3       c) Junction Constana                                     364,353.72           364,353.72
3       d) Junction Jarabacca                                    379,353.72           379,353.72
3 ____   e) Junction San Fancisco                                370,353.72           370,353.72
3 __    I) Junction Navarrete                                    388,353.72           388,353.72
3       g) Junction Mao                                          397,353.72           397,353.72
3       h) Juntion Villa Ellsa                                   400,353.72           400,353.72
2       i) Monte Cristi                                          274,902.48           274,902.48
2       J) D*ab6n                                                284,902.48           284,902.48
[      26       TOTAL DUARTE HIGHWAY                                                      $3,326,229.10
LAS AMERICAS HIGHWAY (Santo Domingo - East Coast)
UNITS                        LOCATION                         UNIT COST          COSTO TOTAL
2       a) Santo Domingo                                         224,706.64           224,706.64
3       b) Junction Aeropuerto                                   340,059.96           340,059.96
I       c) Andres Beca Chica                                     113,353.32           113,353.32
3       d) Round Boca Chica                                      343,059.96           343,059.96
-   1         e) Gumyacanes                                            117,649.30           117,649.30
I       f___   Juan Doilo                                        117,649.30           117,649.30
3       g Selbo                                                  370,353.72           370,353.72
3       h) Hato Mayor                                            364,353.72           364,353.72
2       i) Sabana de La Mar                                      246,902.48           246,902.48
3       D_ Miches                                                379,353.72           379,353.72
1       k) Juan DolIl                                            117,649.30           117,649.30
3       i) San Pedro de Macoris                                  352,947.90           352,947.90
2       m) La Romsna                                             246,902.48           246,902.48
3       n) Junction Boca de Yumna                                370,353.72           370,353.72
2       fit) Higuey                                              252,902.48           252,902.48
3       o) Junction Punta Cana                                   388,353.72           388,353.72
36                       TOTAL LAS AMERICAS HIGHWAY                                S4,346,551.72
SANCHEZ IRGHWAY
UNITS                        LOCATION                         UNIT COST          TOTAL COST
I       a) Santo Domndgo                                         113,354.32           113,354.32
2      |b) San Crist6bal                                         230,708.64           230,708.64
2       c) Bani                                                  235,298.64           235,298.64
3       d) Junction Ocoa                                         364,947.96           364,947.96
2       e)Azua                                                   248,902.48           248,902.48
3       0) Junction San Juan                                     376,353.72           376,353.72
3       g) Junction Vicente Noble                                382,353.72           382,353.72
2       ih) Neiba                                                260,902.48           260,902.48
3       I)Junctfon Cabral                                        394,353.72           394,353.72
2 _     J) Nelba                                                 268,902.48           268,902.48
2       h) Jlmani                                                272,902.48           272,902.48
2       [) Junction Palo Alto                                    262,902.48           262,902.48
3       m) Bai ahona Aereprt                                     370,353.72           370,353.72
2       n) 'arahona                                              262,902.48           262,902.48
2      [) Casral                                                 268,902.48           268,902.48
3       o)Junetion ia Colonia                                   403,353.72            403,353.72
2       p)Duverge                                                268,902.48           268,902.48
39                                                _4,986,298.00
101            GRAND TOTAL HIGHWAY NETWORK                      RDS            S12,659,078.82
101             GRAND TOTAL EIGHWAY NETWORK                     USS             S973,775.29



- 77 -
Table A5.5 Consulting Services
Summary of Costs
Cost (US$'000)    Financing
Project Components                            Local Foreign Total   Agency
Project Coordination Team                        250   1,000 1,250  IBRD/DR
Maintenance Management and Financing             240     960 1,200  IBRD/DR
Administrative and Financial System               40     160  200  IBRD/DR
Strengthening Enviromnment Unit                   40     160  200  IB3RD/DR
Highway Accidents Base                                   150   150 Nordic Fund
Transport Plans                                          120   120 Nordic Fund
Santo Domingo-Bani Widening and Toll System Study  80    320  400  IEBRD/DR
Development Plan North-Western Region                   1,500 1,500 Nordic Fund
Highway Plan-Eastern Coastal Region                     1,000 1,000 Nordic Fund
Drainage and Sanitation Plan of Santo Domingo    156     624   780  IBRD/DR
Total                                            806   5,994 6,8001



l



- 79 -
ANEXO 6.1
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TkRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA SUPERVISI6N DE OBRAS CIVLES
A.    Servicios Requeridos
1.    Introducci6n. Los servicios que se describen en los parrafos siguientes del
presente documento se refieren a la supervisi6n de las obras civiles de ampliaci6n,
construcci6n y reconstrucci6n de carreteras y puentes incluidas en el proyecto que se
propone. Las firmas consultoras interesadas deberan conocer todos los documentos de
licitaci6n de las obras a supervisar, asi como toda aquella informaci6n que fuese necesario
recopilar para la evaluaci6n de los requerimientos y la confecci6n de su oferta.
2.    Informes y Documentos. Todos los informes y documentos se presentarin en
formato 81/2xl 1" y los planos doblados en el mismo formato. Se seguira una secuencia
numerada. En la portada constara el titulo del proyecto, nuimero del informe y contenido.
Los informes tendran indice y paginas numeradas.
3.    Revisi6n Inicial de los Proyectos. Dado el tiempo transcurrido entre la toma de
datos, la redacci6n del proyecto base, la licitaci6n y la adjudicaci6n de las obras y el
comienzo de las mismas, la primera tarea del Consultor serk, la revisi6n, y modificaci6n en
su caso, del "proyecto de ejecuci6n" que debera realizar en el plazo de 2 meses. El
supervisor podra utilizar toda aquella informaci6n del proyecto base que considere
oportuna y la complementara hasta concluir un documento que identifique y defina
claramente la obra a ejecutar y permita al contratista la construcci6n y su programaci6n sin
vacios de definici6n. Las posibles modificaciones que se consideren y los variaciones
presupuestarias que resulten seran discutidas y aprobadas en su caso por la SEOPC,
siempre dentro del alcance inicial del proyecto base.
4.    Plan de Control. El plan de control consistira basicamente en la definici6n de una
guia de toma de datos, ensayos, medidas y comprobaciones para cada unidad y fase de
obra, estableciendo parametros minimos y criterios de aceptaci6n para el avance de la
obra, la observaci6n y paralizaci6n de esta, su aprobaci6n o su rechazo; estableciendo para
ello un conjunto de sistemas de operaci6n. Este plan sera sometido a la SEOPC para su
aprobaci6n. Tambien se establecera una colecci6n de formularios para ensayos de
laboratorio y otros controles que permitan su mejor identificaci6n, seguimiento y archivo,
definiendo dos campos: control geometrico y control de calidad. El primer campo para
verificar: (i) la concordancia de la construcci6n con las lineas generales de proyecto, y las
tolerancias asumibles; y (ii) las mediciones, y cubicaciones del contratista. El segundo
campo para verificar: (i) el cumplimiento de las especificaciones y normativa,
estableciendo al mismo tiempo frecuencia y tolerancias; y (ii) el cumplimiento de los
estandares de calidad en el proceso constructivo.



- 80 -
5.    Revisi6n de las Medidas de Mitigaci6n de Posibles Impactos. El consultor
revisari las medidas de mitigaci6n de impacto previstas en cada subproyecto considerando
los aspectos socioecon6mico y ambiental.
6.    Propuesta de Sefhalizaci6n y Balizamiento de Obra. El consultor propondra un
disefio de seftalizaci6n horizontal y vertical durante las obras que permita ejecutarlas en
suficientes condiciones de seguridad.
7.    Propuesta de Conservaci6n y Mantenimiento durante las Obras. El consultor
propondra un sistema de conservaci6n y mantenimiento durante la ejecuci6n de las obras,
teniendo en cuenta los datos basicos del proyecto, estableciendo unas condiciones minimas
de servicio y un nivel maximo de deterioro admisible e indicando las acciones a
implementar en cada caso y una estimaci6n de su costo.
8.    Acta de Replanteo. El consultor coordinara una reuni6n de la SEOPC con el
contratista y 61 mismo para dar inicio oficial a la obras, realizando una visita al lugar de las
mismas y recogiendo en un acta aquellos planteamientos que expongan las partes que
puedan afectar o no sean congruentes con la documentaci6n contractual; asimismo
recogera en el acta los acuerdos y/o acciones a realizar y anexari los informes y
documentos necesarios.
9.    Informe Inicial. El consultor redactara un informe con todas las incidencias
previas al inicio de las obras en el que incluira: (i) fechas de pago de anticipo; (ii) acta de
replanteo y programa de obra actualizado; (iii) modificaciones del proyecto base recogidas
en el proyecto de ejecuci6n, tanto de disefio como presupuestarias; (iv) medidas previstas
para la resoluci6n de los problemas encontrados al inicio de la obra; (v) evaluaci6n del
sobrecosto de la aplicaci6n de dichas medidas; y (vi) evaluaci6n de la posibilidad de
cumplimiento de las metas del proyecto .
10.   Contrataci6n de un Laboratorio Homologado. El consultor analizara la
propuesta de contrataci6n del laboratorio presentada por el contratista y confirmari que
refine las condiciones necesarias y suficientes para desarrollar eficazmente el plan de
control previsto. Asimismo, preparara las condiciones para la coordinaci6n eficaz con la
obra, plazos para los resultados de los ensayos y penalizaciones por retrasos 6 perdidas.
11.   Redisefios y Cambios. El consultor realizara todos los diseflos de partes de obra
que deban modificarse por alguna raz6n tecnica o por indicaci6n directa de la SEOPC.
Estos disefnos incluiran memoria, planos y presupuesto conciliado con el contratista y se
redactaran en el formato y como complemento del proyecto de ejecuci6n. El supervisor
completara esta etapa con la rapidez necesaria en cada caso para afectar lo menos posible
el programa de obra.
12.   Evaluaci6n de Controles. El consultor mantendra los sistemas propuestos en el
plan de control para la evaluaci6n de los resultados de los ensayos y controles de obra, de
tal forma que la emisi6n de dictamenes (valoraci6n, rechazo o aceptaci6n) se produzca de
forma automatica, con la mayor rapidez y asegurando la comunicaci6n al contratista; asi



- 81 -
evitara retenciones o paralizaciones innecesarias del ciclo productivo de partes de obra
que puedan convertirse posteriormente en causal de reclamaci6n del contratista. Todas
estas evaluaciones se archivaran junto con los resultados de los ensayos.
13.   Programaci6n. El consultor: (i) realizara un seguimiento mensual del programa
de obra, extrapolando, con rigor y con base en los avances reales y rendirnientos
promedios, la fecha de terminaci6n mas probable de la obra y mantendra puntualmente
informados a la SEOPC y al contratista del programa; (ii) mantendra reuniones con el
contratista para analizar el programa y tomar medidas implementando mas o mejores
medios en caso de existir retrasos imputables al contratista; (iii) preparara un nuevo
programa 6 una modificaci6n del existente, buscando lograr las metas previstas; y (iv)
redactara un acta de cada reuni6n. En todo caso no pasara mas de un mes sin actualizar el
programa que s6lo podra basarse en rendimniento reales o compromisos firmados por el
contratista. Los aumentos de plazo deberan someterse a la aprobaci6n de la SEOPC.
14.   Cubicaciones y Facturaci6n. El consultor tramitara, en el plazo establecido por
la SEOPC, la cubicaci6n del contratista, para lo cual acordara con el mismo el proceso a
seguir (fecha de mediciones, forma de presentaci6n, datos y calculos que anexar etc.). El
supervisor tendra en cuenta todos los aspectos contractuales, (retenci6n, devoluci6n del
anticipo, penalizaciones, baja de oferta, revisi6n de precios, etc.). La cubicaci6n
contendra la medici6n, monto y % de avance de cada unidad presupuestaria, tanto del
mes, como a origen. Los imprevistos, trabajos por administraci6n y partidas nuevas iran
en sendos capitulos adicionales. El supervisor debera anexar la cubicaci6n revisada a la
documentaci6n contractual que modifique el contrato vigente, aprobaci6n de precios
nuevos, 6rdenes de penalizaci6n, pago de impuestos e indenmizaciones, variaci6n de
retenciones o de vol(imenes y montos presupuestarios, etc. En caso de precios
provisionales y pagos por acopios se adjuntara la documentaci6n justificativa.
15.   Reclamos del Contratista. El consultor analizara de inmediato cada situaci6n
que pueda ocasionar un reclamo por el contratista, buscando la mejor soluci6n para el
proyecto dentro de los terminos contractuales. Mantendra informada a la SEOPC de los
reclamos que se presenten, adjuntando su opini6n tecnica y los efectos estimados en plazo
y calidad de obra. En general, todas las conciliaciones de reclamos y precios nuevos
debera aprobarlas la SEOPC, para lo cual el supervisor realizara las diligencias oportunas.
16.   Indicaciones al Contratista. A partir del acta de replanteo, el consultor debera
comunicar al contratista todas las 6rdenes y directrices, formatos de formularios, sistemas
de trabajo, coordinaci6n en obra, reuniones y consideraciones del programa de obra a
seguir, etc. que entienda sean necesarios para supervisar eficazmente la obra y asegurar su
calidad.
17.   Informe Mensual. Basicamente el informe mensual servirA de soporte al analisis
del avance de obra y la situaci6n de los problemas surgidos y su posible resoluci6n, asi
como a las variaciones de proyecto incorporadas. No se adjuntaran con el informe



- 82 -
documentos de trabajo rutinario, como formularios de ensayos, listados topograficos y
mediciones, comunicaciones y memorandums entre las partes, cubicaciones, calculos, etc.
18.   Informes Especiales. El consultor realizara los informes especificos que le sean
requeridos por la SEOPC, incluyendo los trabajos necesarios para prepararlos. El
supervisor sometera a aprobaci6n previa de la SEOPC el posible sobrecosto de esos
trabajos, en caso de que no los considere incluidos en sus obligaciones contractuales.
19.   Pianos "As Built". Al finalizar las obras, el consultor redactara un proyecto "as
built" con base en el "proyecto de ejecuci6n" y en las modificaciones introducidas durante
las obras. El proyecto "as built" se compondra de memoria, planos y mediciones.
20.   Cubicaci6n de Liquidaci6n. El consultor emitira una cubicaci6n final de obra
con todo el soporte necesario para justificar su medici6n a origen; comunicaciones
aprobando precios nuevos, o reclamos; revisi6n de precios; y justificaci6n de las
penalizaciones y pagos efectuados.
21.   Acta de Recepci6n Provisional y Programa de Mantenimiento durante el
Periodo de Garantia. El consultor redactara el acta de recepci6n provisional recogiendo
el programa de mantenimiento y las indicaciones al contratista durante el periodo de
garantia aprobados por la SEOPC e incluira tambien en el acta los reclamos del contratista
que queden pendientes.
22.   Informe Final. El consultor emitira un informe final recogiendo el acta de
recepci6n provisional, los reclamos pendientes, el costo final de obra (justificando las
diferencias habidas con el contrato original) y las metas logradas respecto a las
originalmente esperadas. El consultor anexara al informe el programa de mantenimiento
durante el afio de garantia y las medidas minimas necesarias para el control del mismo.
B.    Estructura Operacional
23.   Oficinas. El consultor establecerA una oficina en el lugar de la obra a traves de la
cual realizara el seguimiento diario de la obra, controles geometricos y cubicaciones,
interpretaci6n de ensayos y manejo del plan de control de calidad, toma de datos y
relaci6n con el contratista. EstablecerA otra oficina en Santo Domingo donde se
prepararan los informes, estudios y proyectos que se especifican en estos terminos de
referencia. Esta oficina debera tambien dar apoyo en tareas administrativas, tramites e
informaci6n que afecten al proyecto fuera del lugar de obras. En caso de disponer ya el
supervisor de unas oficinas centrales en Santo Domingo, podra reservar un area y personal
especifico dentro de las mnismas para el cumplimiento de estos requisitos.
24.   Personal. La supervisi6n se llevara a cabo con el siguiente personal:
Un Ingeniero Director con experiencia en direcci6n y supervisi6n de obras,
particularmente de carreteras y puentes que dirigira las oficinas de obra y de la
capital, gestionara el desarrollo del plan de control, contratara los servicios
especializados necesarios (topografia, laboratorio, etc.), y dirigira los proyectos,



- 83 -
disefios y estudios incluidos en los servicios de supervisi6n y se encargari de las
relaciones con el contratista, directamente o delegando en el ingeniero residente.
Un Ingeniero Residente en la oficina de obra, con experiencia en supervisi6n y
capacidad para tomar decisiones por delegaci6n del Ingeniero Director, de tal
forma que pueda atender requerimientos del contratista sobre problemas
relacionados con las obras.
Un Ingeniero Asistente encargado de recoger toda la informaci6n generada en
obra y preparar con ella los informes mensuales, ademis de coordinar los trabajos
a realizar en la oficina de Santo Domingo. Se encargara tanbien de la tramitaci6n
de expedientes, cubicaciones y facturas; de las diligencias de apoyo y control
administrativo; de las actas de todas las reuniones; de suministrar la informaci6n
requerida por la SEOPC; y prestara apoyo en la redacci6n de proyectos, estudios,
y disefios.
Inspectores de obra en numero suficiente para asegurar el control total de la obra
que sera variable en funci6n del volumen del contrato y de la marcha de las obras.
Los inspectores de obra se encargarin de todos los aspectos del control directo de
las obras, cualitativo y cuantitativo, para lo que deberan disponer de los medios
necesarios y tener el entrenamiento y calificaci6n oportunos.
Personal Auxiliar que el consultor considere necesario para el apoyo general a la
asistencia tecnica como puede ser: ch6feres, secretarias auxiliares de campo, etc.
25.   Transporte. El consultor incluira en su oferta los adecuados medios de transporte
para la realizaci6n del trabajo de supervisi6n. Dispondra, entre otros, de medios de
transporte para los inspectores, que no estaran en ningun momento supeditados al
transporte local ni a vehiculos del contratista.
26.   Equipo informatico y de Oficina. El consultor dispondra de suficientes
computadoras, impresoras, archivos, fotocopiadoras y mesas de trabajo y de reuniones
para llevar a cabo las tareas descritas. Asimismo dispondra de telefono y fax en sus dos
oficinas o, en su defecto, de un sistema de comunicaci6n m6vil.
27.   Topografia. El consultor contara con un equipo de topografia en obra para el
control rutinario de los inspectores, sin perjuicio de contratar el servicio auxiliar temporal
que se requiera para el levantamiento inicial y restituci6n de bases, problemas puntuales,
levantamiento de minas, redisefios, proyecto de ejecuci6n, modificaciones, planos "as
built" y medici6n final de obra.
28.   Laboratorio. El consultor no tendra que disponer de laboratorio, ya que sus
funciones seran encargadas a un laboratorio homologado. Sin embargo, dispondra en
obra de herramientas, material para la realizaci6n de catas y toma de muestras para cuando
sea oportuno realizar ensayos imprevistos o esporadicos. Asimismo dispondra en obra de
todo el material necesario para mediciones y chequeos como: cintas metricas, relojes,



- 84 -
term6metros, camara de fotos, etc. El consultor debera tambien comprobar el
cumplimiento de las nornas y del plan de control por parte del laboratorio homologado
seleccionado. Asimismo podra solicitar aquellos ensayos adicionales y de contraste con
otros laboratorios para asegurar el control y/o cuando entienda no satisfactorio el trabajo
del laboratorio seleccionado. En caso de utilizaci6n por el contratista o laboratorio
homologado de aparatos nucleares, de impacto, etc., el Consultor ordenara los tarados
oportunos a cuenta del contratista y su chequeo peri6dico.



- 85 -
ANEXO 6.2
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TtRMIOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA ASISTENCiA TtCNICA A LA SEOPC EN LA
EJECUCI6N DEL SISTEMA DE ADMINISTRACI6N DE MANTENIMLIENTO DE CARRETERAS
(SAMC)
1.    Antecedentes. A finales de la decada de los setenta y durante toda la de los afios
ochenta, tuvieron lugar en la Repiiblica Dominicana algunas actuaciones tendentes a la
implantaci6n de un sistema de mantenimiento de la red nacional de carreteras. Con fondos
provenientes de los prestamos 1316-DO, 1784-DO y 2609-DO, respectivamente, se
diseft6 y fue adaptado a las caracteristicas del pais un sistema de Administraci6n del
Mantenimiento de Carreteras; pero, debido a problemas derivados del exceso de personal,
de la falta de apoyo institucional y de la desviaci6n de los recursos hacia la reconstrucci6n
y rehabilitaci6n de una red vial en estado sumamente deficiente, dicho sistema nunca pudo
ser institucionalizado y operativo.
2.    El abandono del mantenimiento redund6 en un todavia mayor deterioro de la red,
lo que oblig6 a rehabilitarla a traves de los prestamos citados y del prestamo 3350-DO,
acompafiados de un notable esfuerzo inversor del Gobiemo. Como resultado se estima
que 85% de la red de carreteras estara en buena o regular condici6n a finales de 1997.
3.    Como parte del prestamo 3350-DO, fue contratado un componente de asistencia
tecnica para la implantaci6n de un Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento de
Carreteras (SAMC) a nivel central y distrital, dada la necesidad de actualizar y poner en
practica un sistema practico y eficiente de conservaci6n, que permitiera salvaguardar el
patrimonio vial rehabilitado. El caracter innovador del sistema propuesto en esta ultima
asistencia tecnica radica en la (progresiva) contrataci6n del mantenimiento con empresas
privadas de gesti6n vial, permaneciendo en la entidad oficial las labores de planificaci6n y
atenci6n a emergencias, aparte de las obvias de fiscalizaci6n, normativa, tutela y
salvaguarda del dominio piublico vial (derecho de via).
4.    Sin embargo, quedan pendientes algunos trabajos para concluir la implantaci6n del
SAMC, entre otros la extensi6n del sistema a las ayudantias, la supervisi6n de los
contratos de mantenimiento rutinario, la incorporaci6n al sistema del mantenimiento
peri6dico, el desarrollo institucional y la transferencia de la metodologia a las empresas y
entidades del pais. Asimismo, sera necesario un apoyo especializado en mantenimiento
vial a la Oficina de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto (OCP).
5.    Objetivos. En concordancia con lo anterior, el objetivo fundamental de la nueva
Asistencia Tecnica es culminar la implantaci6n y evaluar el funcionamiento del (SAMC)
asi como asesorar a la OCP en las actividades de mantenimiento. El consultor debera
tambien elaborar las bases, normativas, legales, administrativas, organizativas y financieras



- 86 -
que permitan la creaci6n de un organismo descentralizado y muy particularmente, de su
fondo de financiamiento especializado, alimentado este a traves de cargos a los usuarios
de las carreteras, y prever un regimen transitorio apropiado.
6.    Alcance de la Asistencia Tecnica. Las principales tareas del consultor seran las
siguientes:
(a)   extensi6n del SAMC a las ayudantias; estudio y adaptaci6n del sistema
existente en la sede central y los distritos;
(b)   asesoria tematica a la OCP;
(c)   evaluaci6n y revisi6n del SAMC y su aplicaci6n en los distritos y en el
Departamento de Planificaci6n y Control de Costos (DPCC); supervisi6n
de la actualizaci6n de los inventarios;
(d)   supervisi6n del mantenimiento por contrato;
(e)   auditoria tecnica de los contratos de mantenimiento rutinario y peri6dico y
del proceso gradual de contrataci6n del mantenimiento;
(f)   transferencia de metodologia y sistematica del mantenimiento a las
empresas de gesti6n vial; analisis global del funcionamiento del sistema;
evaluaci6n continua de las empresas precalificadas para contratar;
(g)   programa de capacitaci6n continua de los recursos humanos
potencialmente intervinientes en el proceso, incluyendo programas
especificos (tecnicos y universitarios) de formaci6n, asi como
fortalecimiento de la escala y carrera administrativas;
(h)   propuesta metodol6gica y supervisi6n de la asignaci6n de los equipos y
maquinaria de la SEOPC; contratos de cesi6n de equipos a las compafnias
adjudicatarias del mantenimiento;
(i)   asesoria en la ejecuci6n de las labores de vigilancia y ordenaci6n del
dominio piublico vial;
(j)   evaluaci6n de los procesos de reforma institucional; establecimiento del
Organismo de Mantenimiento Vial y el Fondo Vial; y
(k)   asesoria en temas de atenci6n a emergencias en la carretera; estudios de
siniestralidad; metodos preventivos; riesgos meteorol6gicos, gravitatorios,
geol6gicos y sismicos; organizaci6n y coordinaci6n de equipos.
7.    Trabajos a efectuar. Los trabajos correspondientes a dichas tareas se detallan a
continuaci6n.



- 87 -
(a)   E;xtensi6n del SAMC a las Ayudantias. Estudio y adaptaci6n del sistema
existente en la sede central y los distritos, para examinar la adaptabilidad
del sistema previamente implantado a nivel central y distrital, analizando las
labores que deban ser descentralizadas y los recursos disponibles, humanos
y materiales. Tras ello, el consultor propondra a la SEOPC las tareas a
delegar en a las ayudantias, asi como las necesidades de todo tipo que
conllevara la puesta en marcha del sistema, con especial enfasis en el grado
de informatizaci6n y en los sistemas de comunicaci6n con el resto de
niveles del sistema. Sea cual sea el grado de tecnificaci6n inicialmente
previsto, se procurara que el sistema este lo mas adaptado posible (y, en
especial, que no presente contraindicaci6n alguna) a fin de su eventual y
fitura automatizaci6n.
(b)   Asesoria tematica a la OCP. Esta labor estara inscrita en el trabajo
conjunto de la OCP. El ingeniero vial coordinador de la asistencia tecnica
(o ingeniero vial en que este delegue, en tat caso con aprobaci6n de la
SEOPC) llevara a cabo la asesoria en materia de conservaci6n de carreteras
que requiera la OCP, durante el tiempo de duraci6n de este contrato.
(c)   EvaluaciOny revisi6n del SAMC. Supervisi6n de la actualizaci6n de los
inventarios viales, asi como de la aplicaci6n del SAMC en los distritos y en
el DPCC. Incluira todos los procesos de evaluaci6n del funcionamiento del
sistema existente, diagn6stico de posibles fallos o carencias, propuestas de
soluci6n y consiguiente modificaci6n y revisi6n. Asimismo, se tomaran en
cuenta los efectos derivados de las nuevas tecnologias viales implantadas.
Se supervisaran los trabajos que realicen la DGM o los contratistas de
gesti6n vial, en materia de actualizaci6n de inventarios y demas soportes
para la planificaci6n y programaci6n del mantenimiento. Esta supervisi6n
se hara extensiva a los trabajos de analisis de proyectos (mediante HDM u
otros instrumentos), asi como a los controles, protocolos y normativas
referentes a actividades de mantenimiento (ejecuci6n y calidad), cantidades,
rendimientos, costos y niveles de servicio.
(d)   Supervisi6n del mantenimiento por contrato. Los trabajos a desarrollar en
este apartado consistiran -dado su caracter de contratos piloto- en el apoyo
a la DGM y a las empresas de mantenimiento en la elaboraci6n de los
documentos y en el aporte de datos que permitan la adecuada realizaci6n
de las labores que se definen en los dos epigrafes subsiguientes. Se
revisaran los reportes de programaci6n mensual, semanal y diaria,
cumplimiento de objetivos y agenda de estado de los tramos contratados.
Se haran las propuestas pertinentes con el fin de obtener una informaci6n
adecuada, oportuna y fiable, enmarcada en el uso de unos recursos
materiales y temporales compatibles con la sostenibilidad del resto de
actividades.



- 88 -
(e)   Auditoria Tecnica de los contratos de mantenimiento rutinario y peri6dico
y delproceso gradual de contrataci6n del mantenimiento; (terminos de
referencia en Anexo 11). Tomando como base la informaci6n antes
resefiada, el consultor establecera los mecanismos de auditoria
multidisciplinar sobre los contratos piloto de mantenimiento (rutinario y
peri6dico) en ejecuci6n, teniendo en cuenta los siguientes factores:
(i)    metodologiayprocedimientosgeneralesdeexamen: metodos
existentes, adaptaci6n futura y diseiio basico adoptados; normativa
y recomendaciones de los organismos nacionales e internacionales,
asi como de la buena practica constructiva; metodologia de toma de
datos de campo y de extrapolaci6n e identificaci6n de tramos o
trabajos homogeneos;
(ii)   preparaci6n y ejecuci6n de las unidades de obra y servicios de
mantenimiento: procedencia de los materiales y equipos, tanto
desde el punto de vista de su idoneidad tecnica como del analisis
comparativo de sus costos y rendimientos; examen de las
estructuras, organizaci6n, control intemo, capacitaci6n y
funcionamiento de las entidades y empresas implicadas o
precalificadas; planes de control de calidad; niveles de servicio
obtenidos;
(iii)  impacto ambiental de las actuaciones: unidades de obra,
extracci6n y dep6sito de materiales, fabricaci6n de agregados y
aglomerados, vertidos, instalaciones o desvios provisionales,
accidentes. Se tendran en cuenta los procedimientos de evaluaci6n
de impactos, con especial enfasis en la evaluaci6n tematica (paisaje,
geomorfologia, regulaci6n hidrica, suelos, hidrologia, vegetaci6n,
fauna, usuarios, accesibilidad, aspectos socioecon6micos), la
identificaci6n de impactos y sus relaciones causa-efecto, y Ia
propuesta de introducci6n de las medidas preventivas y correctoras
correspondientes;
(iv)   seguimiento de los contratos: sanciones, aparici6n de incidencias,
retrasos, incremento de cantidades y costos unitarios, modificaci6n
de las soluciones tecnicas o cambio de los sistemas de ejecuci6n
respecto de los previstos, reducciones o ampliaciones del ambito
fisico de intervenci6n. Identificaci6n de relaciones causa-efecto;
prognosis y escenario de finalizaci6n de aquellos que se hallen en
ejecuci6n; seguridad e higiene en el trabajo; evaluaci6n de la calidad
final; evaluaci6n del equipo de direcci6n del contrato;
(v)   estandarizaci6n de resultadosy elaboraci6n de indices
comparativos: establecimiento de indicadores econ6micos (costes
de administraci6n o supervisi6n, costes por kil6metro de cada



-89 -
actividad, normas de cantidad, totalizaci6n de los costes de
mantenimiento para cada tipo de red, rentabilidad obtenida), de
contingencias (siniestralidad, retrasos en obras, en servicios y en
direcci6n o control de calidad, incrementos en costes, aparici6n de
imprevistos) y estadisticos (km. o nuimero de unidades tratadas,
construidas o en ejecuci6n -y comparaci6n con las previstas- para
los diferentes contratos y programas, longitudes y porcentajes de
red incluidas en los mismos, inversiones correspondientes);
(vi)  informe de conclusiones sobre cumplimiento de objetivos,
anomalias o carencias de todo tipo y ambito observadas, y
propuestas preventivas o correctoras a considerar: opini6n del
equipo auditor sobre el proceso, comparativamente con otros en
que haya intervenido; perfiles caracteristicos del pais;
recomendaciones y estandares a utilizar en el futuro; y
(vii)  anexos e informaciones complementarias de todo tipo que el
equipo auditor estime oportunos.
Ademas, tomando como base los informes de auditoria de los contratos en
ejecucion y el analisis de la progresiva puesta en marcha del SAMC, el consultor
efectuarh sucesivas revisiones de los tramos de carretera a incluir en los contratos
piloto de mantenimiento -tanto rutinario como peri6dico- previamente
seleccionados, a la luz de la nueva programaci6n, asi como del conocimiento mas
especifico de otros componentes y actuaciones viales de la SEOPC. Las variables
de selecci6n no seran unicamente las territoriales y socioecon6micas usualmente
empleadas en las tecnicas de analisis de proyectos, planificaci6n y ordenaci6n
territorial, sino que ademas se tendran en cuenta -dado su caracter de experiencia
piloto- otros criterios de reparto por distritos, de adaptaci6n a las disponibilidad de
materiales y medios de las empresas locales, asi como de coordinaci6n con los
restantes programas que se Ilevan a cabo en la red vial nacional (obras previstas o
en curso, continuidad de tramos, transferencia de tecnologia vial, aspectos
medioambientales, etc.).
El consultor extendera asimismo el informe de auditoria a las rehabilitaciones de
tramos y refuerzos de pavimentos que, sin formar parte de los contratos piloto,
sean expresamente sefialados por la SEOPC.
Para las sucesivas contrataciones del mantenimiento (tanto rutinario como
peri6dico) que vayan a tener lugar, el consultor revisara, adaptari y pondra al dia
las bases y restantes documentos de licitaci6n. Asimismo, el consultor disefiara y
propondra a la SEOPC un modelo de contrato de conservaci6n integral, en el cual
el adjudicatario se haga cargo simultaneamente del mantenimiento rutinario y del
mantenimiento peri6dico de un conjunto o lote de tramos.



- 90 -
(f)    Transferencia de metodologia y sistematica del mantenimiento a las
empresas de gestion vial y evaluaci6n continua de las empresas
precalificadaspara contratar. Este apartado se refiere a las labores de
formaci6n y entrenamiento del personal de las empresas de gesti6n vial que
esten interviniendo en los contratos de mantenimiento, o bien que, sin ser
adjudicatarias de ninguno de los lotes, se hallen precalificadas para ello
conforme a las bases y demas documentos de licitaci6n. El objeto de esta
capacitaci6n sera la familiarizaci6n con los soportes y flujos de informaci6n
que demanda el buen funcionamiento del sistema, asi como la estructura y
funcionamiento recomendados para su correcta y puntual ejecuci6n. La
formaci6n se llevara a cabo de un modo continuo, acompasando la puesta
en marcha de los distintos componentes del SAMC a los progresos
capacitativos del personal involucrado, a traves de un analisis global de su
funcionamiento. El consultor, en sus informes, indicara expresamente las
incidencias del proceso formativo en cada una de las empresas,
proponiendo las variaciones que estime oportunas en su calificaci6n.
(g)   Programa de continuaci6n de la capacitaci6n de los recursos humanos,
potencialmente intervinientes en elproceso, incluyendo programas
especificos (tecnicos y universitarios) de forrnaci6n, asi como
fortalecimiento de la escala y carrera administrativas. El consultor,
partiendo del conocimiento de las carencias formativas (en la
Administraci6n y en la empresa) como consecuencia de los trabajos de
apartados anteriores y en previsi6n del incremento de necesidades de
personal especializado, fruto del plan progresivo de mantenimiento por
contrato 1996-200 1, propondra !a extensi6n de las actividades de
formaci6n especifica en la materia, mediante la coordinaci6n con los
organismos apropiados, materializando para ello planes academicos o de
progresi6n en la escala administrativa, incluyendo la definici6n curricular y
la confecci6n de los recursos didacticos.
(h)   Propuesta metodol6gicay supervisi6n de la asignacion de los equiposy
maquinaria de la SEOPC; contratos de cesi6n de equipos a las compaflias
adjudicatarias del mantenimiento. El consultor estudiara y determinara, de
modo coordinado con las necesidades que la DGM fije para los caminos
vecinales, los excedentes de equipos pesados y maquinaria que existan o se
prevea puedan existir en el futuro, como consecuencia del proceso de
contrataci6n extema del mantenimiento, asi como de su natural
envejecimiento. Propondra el metodo y secuencia de la reconversion de la
flota, y supervisara tal proceso: para ello, considerara y ponderara las
diferentes alternativas que se ofrezcan y, caso de optar total o parcialmente
por la cesi6n de equipos a las empresas de gesti6n vial, el consultor elevara
a la SEOPC los documertos y contratos en que se pueda basar dicha
cesi6n. Una vez puesta en marcha la reconversi6n, evaluara su desarrollo,
indicando en sus informes las carencias o desviaciones detectadas, asi como
las recomendaciones para su soluci6n.



- 91 -
(i)    Asesoria en la ejecuci6n de las labores de vigilancia especificay
ordenaci6n del dominiopublico vial. La defensa y salvaguarda del
derecho de via (dominio publico) es un componente del SAMC a
permanecer dentro de las competencias y funciones ejecutivas directas de la
Administraci6n de Carreteras, regulado por la Ley N 1474, de 22 de
febrero de 1938, modificada mediante disposici6n de 22 de mayo de 1965.
Con el fin de obtener una gesti6n adecuada del citado dominio puiblico vial,
la consultora asesorara a la SEOPC y presentara al efecto una propuesta
organizativa y funcional para la correcta ejecuci6n de las labores de
vigilancia, resoluci6n de incidencias y regimen sancionador
correspondientes.
(j)    Evaluaci6n de losprocesos de reforma institucional. Establecimiento del
Organismo de Mantenimiento Vial y el Fondo Vial. El consultor asistiri a
la SEOPC en el establecimiento del Fondo Vial y en la creaci6n de un
organismo de Mantenimiento Vial y elaborara un proyecto de Estatuto de
Conservaci6n basado fundamentalmente en los mecanismos de informaci6n
y participaci6n piiblicas, y en la transparencia de la gesti6n. Detallara
asimismo el grado de autonomia administrativa propuesto, su sujeci6n al
derecho publico o privado y las peculiaridades de su escala laboral o de su
carrera administrativa. La propuesta incluira un apartado de regimen
transitorio expresamente adaptado a la Repuiblica Dominicana. Para todo
ello:
(i)    a partir de los programas de mantenimiento de carreteras
preparados durante la asistencia t6cnica bajo el pr6stamo 3350-DO,
revisados y actualizados por esta asistencia, se revisara el gasto
anual de mantenimiento peri6dico y rutinario de la red, una vez esta
se encuentre en condici6n aceptable y estabilizada, para fines de
evaluar ia magnitud del fondo especializado y estimar su posible
crecimiento y variaciones en funci6n del desarrollo normal de la red
(caminos vecinales que pasan al sistema terciario, carreteras
terciarias a secundarias, secundarias a primarias y nuevas adiciones
a la red, incluyendo ampliaciones y desarrollo de autopistas);
(ii)   se revisaran los cargos de usuarios existentes determinando el
monto actualmente recaudado bajo este concepto, que abarcaria
primordialmente a: diferencial de combustibles, cargos a la
importaci6n de vehiculos, placas de circulaci6n y peajes;
(iii)  se estudiari y recomendara el tipo (organizaci6n y funciones), de
oficina tecnica-administrativa a traves de la cual se ejecutara la
adrninistraci6n (adjudicaci6n, contrataci6n y seguimiento) de los
contratos de manteniniiento, de acuerdo con las experiencias
derivadas durante el desarrollo del plan piloto de contrataci6n de



- 92 -
mantenimiento rutinario y peri6dico, financiado por este prestamo,
y experiencias similares en otros paises;
(iv)   se revisaran los niveles apropiados de cada uno de los cargos que
alimentaran el fondo, de acuerdo con las tendencias de politica
econ6mica que se prevean, y buscando siempre que la suma global
de los mismos (fondo), sea suficiente en el largo plazo, para cada
afno de los programas de mantenimiento a ejecutar;
(v)   se propondran procedimientos que permitan la revisi6n peri6dica de
los cargos a los usuarios a fin de poder realizar ajustes y poder
alcanzar las metas propuestas, ampliar coberturas o eliminar
excesos que distorsionan los verdaderos costos del mantenirniento.
La finalidad es que el fondo cubra el costo real de las tareas de
mantenimiento.
(vi)  se recomendaran sistemas de control que permitan verificar todos
los procedimientos de utilizaci6n del fondo a traves de auditorias
intemas y extemas; se disefiara el sistema de reportes financieros y
t6cnicos que debera generar la oficina de administraci6n del fondo,
para uso de a) el Consejo de Direcci6n, b) las agencias
gubernamentales relacionadas y puiblico en general, describiendo
claramente los alcances de cada reporte en particular; y
(vii)  se revisara la f6rmula de la transici6n desde la situaci6n impositiva
y financiera anterior a la que requiera el funcionamiento del Fondo
Vial, teniendo en cuenta su impacto en los sectores involucrados en
el transporte de personas o mercancias por carretera, asi como sus
efectos indirectos sobre la tenencia o uso de vehiculos.
(k)   Asesoria en temas de atenci6n a emergencias en la carretera; estudios de
siniestralidad; metodos preventivos: riesgos meteorol6gicos,
gravitatorios, geol6gicos y sismicos; organizaci6n y coordinacion de
equipos. La atenci6n a emergencias es un componente del SAMC dentro
de las competencias y funciones ejecutivas directas de la Administraci6n de
Carreteras. Con el fin de optimizar este servicio, el consultor apoyari a la
SEOPC, supervisando la toma de datos y la elaboraci6n de informes de
puntualidad de atencion a emergencias y de siniestralidad. Paralelamente,
llevara a cabo labores formativas del personal de la SEOPC involucrado en
dichas funciones, haciendo hincapie en la metodologia preventiva para cada
tipo de riesgo. El consultor analizara asimismo la estructura y
coordinaci6n de los equipos existentes en los distintos organismos
nacionales que intervengan en las emergencias de las carreteras, y los
mecanismos de informaci6n a los usuarios sobre mermas de nivel de
servicio inducidas y rutas alternativas. En sus informes, hari constar las
carencias o desviaciones detectadas y sus propuestas al respecto.



- 93 -
8.    Personal de la Asistencia Tecnica. La Asistencia Tecnica sera proporcionada,
como minimo, por los especialistas siguientes, todos los cuales deberan dominar el idioma
espafiol:
(i)    Un ingeniero vial con experiencia en sistemas de administraci6n del
mantenimiento de carreteras, su planificaci6n y ejecuci6n integral
de la conservaci6n; contrataci6n y control (cualitativo y
presupuestario) de obras de conservaci6n; evaluaciones de impacto
ambiental de carreteras; y metodologia y procedimientos de
auditoria multidisciplinar. Este especialista se ocupara de la
supervisi6n del mantenimiento por contrato, asi como de la
reconversi6n y dimensionamiento de las flotas. Seri el director del
equipo consultor y el coordinador del programa, con dedicaci6n de
cuarenta y ocho (48) meses, y se incorporara a la DGM en su
Departamento de Control de Mantenimiento.
(ii)    Un especialista en planificaci6n, organizacion y ancilisis de
politicas o estrategias gerenciales de empresas o entidades
puiblicas, con experiencia auditora especifica en el sector vial. Este
especialista tendra bajo su responsabilidad el analisis tematico del
SAMC como entidad productiva de obras y servicios, la medici6n
de la eficiencia y desempeflo de los contratistas (registro y sistema
de calificaciones continuas de contratistas) y ademis, sera el
responsable de preparar todo lo concerniente a la implantaci6n del
fondo vialy su organismo de administraci6n. Colaborara en los
informes de auditoria, asi como en las labores formativas del
personal de las empresas y entidades intervinientes. Con dedicaci6n
de veinticuatro (24) meses, se incorporara en principio a la DGM
en su Departamento de Planificaci6n, previendose que el personal
que sea entrenado pasari a formar parte de la oficina de
administraci6n del fondo vial en el futuro.
(iii)   Un especialista en capacitacn y gesti6n de personal, con
experiencia especifica en formaci6n de recursos humanos
destinados al sector del mantenimiento y servicios viales. Este
especialista tendra bajo su responsabilidad la evaluaci6n del
personal, preparacion de planes curriculares y recursos didacticos, e
impartici6n parcial de los programas de formaci6n. Su dedicaci6n
prevista sera de doce (12) meses, y se incorporara a la Subdirecci6n
General de Mantenimiento de la DGM.
(iv)   Un especialista en evaluaciones de impacto ambiental de
carreteras, con experiencia en Seguridad e Higiene en el trabajo, y
familiarizado con el control de calidad. Este especialista estara a
cargo de la coordinaci6n de los informes tematicos de las auditorias
y de los estudios de impacto, y la subsiguiente integraci6n y



- 94 -
formulaci6n de relaciones causa-efecto y recomendaciones
preventivas o correctoras. Colaborara en las tareas formativas del
personal, y en el control cualitativo de las actuaciones, con especial
hincapie en la atenci6n a emergencias con repercusi6n ambiental.
Su dedicaci6n sera de ocho (8) meses.
(v)    Un abogado con especialidad en legislaci6n, derecho -nacional y
comparado- en sus ramas administrativa, ambiental, civil y
contenciosa. Tendra a su cargo la redacci6n final de las propuestas
de documentos de licitaci6n, contratos y proposiciones de
reglamentaciones y de desarrollo institucional. Su dedicaci6n sera
de cuatro (4) meses.
Tabla de Especialistas Requeridos para la Asistencia Tecnica
Designaci6n del Especialista         Nuimero de Personasa Mes
Ingeniero Vial Especialista Manteraisiento. Coordinador   48
Especialista Planificacirn, Fondo Vial y Auditoara        24
Especialista Capacilacion y Recursos Humanos              12
Especialista Impacto Ambiental, Seguridad e Higiene       8
Asesor Juridico                                           4
9.    Organismo de Ejecucion del Gobierno y Funcionarios de Contraparte. El
Organismo de ejecucion del programa de asistencia tecnica sera la DGM. Los
funcionarios de contraparte seran seleccionados por la SEOPC, tras un analisis conjunto
con los consultores, del personal permanente de la DGM o de la unidad administrativa
competente que designe la SEOPC para cada caso. Para la ejecuci6n del contrato, se
prevera la disposici6n de personal especializado a nivel de cada distrito. La dotaci6n
unitaria estara formada por un minimo de tres personas, y se adscribiran respectivamente a
las areas de capacitaci6n, programaci6n/costos y obras/equipos.
10.   Programas e Informes. Los consultores prepararan los programas e informes que
se detallan a continuaci6n.
(i)    Programa de trabajos. Los consultores presentaran un programa de
trabajos concordante con su oferta tecnico-econ6rnica, e
incorporando los acuerdos posteriores entre las partes incluidos en
el contrato, dentro de los treinta (30) dias posteriores a su firma.
Este programa consistira basicamente, sin caracter limitativo, en lo
siguiente: (i) periodicidad de actividades a realizar; (ii) asignaci6n
de recursos a cada actividad, y previsi6n de necesidades de personal



- 95 -
de contraparte; (iii) coordinaci6n con los contratos y los programas
en marcha; (iv) desfases u holguras admisibles, y puntos criticos o
condicionantes; (v) cronogramas de dedicaci6n de los consultores;
(vi) valoraci6n mensual y acumulada de los trabajos; y (vii)
informes adicionales previstos. La OCP aprobara el programa
presentado, o alternativamente ordenari la introducci6n de las
modificaciones que estime pertinentes. Una vez aprobado, el
prograrna, este tendra caracter contractual y las posteriores
correcciones requeriran la aprobaci6n expresa y escrita de la OCP.
(ii)   Informes de presentaci6n obligatoria La empresa consultora
estara obligada a presentar informes de progreso de los trabajos con
periodicidad trimestral, asi como un Informe Final que contenga y
compendie toda la informaci6n y documentaci6n recogida y
elaborada como consecuencia de la Asistencia Tecnica. Todos los
informes deberin presentarse dentro de los quince (15) dias
posteriores a la fecha de finalizaci6n del periodo a que
correspondan, salvo el informe final, para el cual el plazo se
ampliara a treinta (30) dias. Los informes se presentaran en un (1)
original encarpetado y cinco (5) copias debidamente
encuademadas, todos ellos en formato de carta (8.5 " x 11) y
orientaci6n vertical, y con los planos (si los hubiere) en tamafio
multiplo de dicho formato y doblados en esas mismas dimensiones.
Todos los documentos en papel seran presentados con escritura
mecanizada o similar, sin alteraciones o adiciones caligraficas. El
original deberi estar suscrito por el director de la consultoria en la
(iltima pagina de cada capitulo, asi como -en todas las que
presenten tachaduras o enmiendas- a la altura de la linea o lineas en
que estas se presenten. El titulo de la portada y contraportada (o
primera pagina) contendra como minimo los siguientes datos: pais,
secretaria de estado, nombre y niimero del proyecto, referencia del
prestamo, identificaci6n del informe, firma consultora, lugar y fecha
de redacci6n.
(iii)  Informes Trimestrales. Los informes trimestrales incluiran
basicamente, pero sin caracter limitativo, los siguientes apartados:
(i) antecedentes; (ii) introducci6n, objetivos, tiempo de ejecuci6n a
la fecha y addenda que se han originado; (iii) personal asignado a la
asistencia tecnica; (iv) labores realizadas en el trimestre; (v)
programaci6n del siguiente periodo; (vi) estado de la ejecucion
financiera; (vii) comentarios y sugerencias de la SEOPC / DGM;
(viii) conclusiones; y (ix) Anexos: (a) graficos (cronogramas, grado
de ejecuci6n presupuestaria, facturaci6n, producci6n, amortizaci6n
del anticipo, estado financiero); y (b) documentos entregados en el
periodo.



- 96 -
(iv)  Informes especiales. La empresa consultora presentara
discrecionalmente informes -denominados informes especiales-
cuando, a su juicio, se den circunstancias o hechos excepcionales
que comprometan o incidan anormal o injustificadamente sobre el
desarrollo o el futuro de los trabajos a supervisar o ejecutar.
Dichos informes analizaran la naturaleza de lo ocurrido y/o los
riesgos en que pueda incurrirse en el futuro, y aportarin las
recomendaciones o altemativas para que pueda adoptarse la
decisi6n mas id6nea. Los informes se presentarin en tiempo y
forma tal que garanticen al maximo su operatividad.
(v)   Informe final. El Informe Final a presentar por la consultora,
contendra y compendiara toda la informaci6n y documentaci6n
recogida y elaborada como consecuencia de la Asistencia Tecnica,
en los soportes que se estime oportuno por ambas partes. Si alguna
de esta documentaci6n ha sido ya entregada a la SEOPC, se hara
constar expresamente tal circunstancia. En este informe la empresa
consultora, a modo de conclusi6n, recopilara y resumira las
indicaciones, recomendaciones y estandares que deban tenerse en
cuenta en el futuro, asi como los asuntos que hayan quedado
pendientes o s6lo parcialmente resueltos, y que a su juicio requieran
posterior diagn6stico o intervenci6n. Asimismo, se presentara la
ordenaci6n y sistematica definitivas de todos y cada uno de los
materiales documentales elaborados durante la Asistencia Tecnica,
con indicaci6n del lugar y dependencia donde ha sido depositado el
ejemplar o ejemplares destinados al uso puiblico, con el fin de
facilitar su posterior recuperaci6n para empleo o investigaci6n.



- 97 -
ANEXO 6.3
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
A.    TtRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA ASESORtA FINANCIERO-ADMINISTRATIVA
Dependencia
El Asesor Financiero-Administrativo (AFA) dependera directamente del Secretario
de Estado.
Equipo Humano
Un Asistente Administrativo-Secretaria
Un Licenciado en Contabilidad-Auditoria
Terminos de Referencia
Actuar de contraparte de la SEOPC en todos los aspectos contables, financieros y
administrativos derivados de los convenios internacionales. En consecuencia:
(a)   actuar de contraparte de DARE frente a las misiones de evaluaci6n y
supervision del Banco Mundial, el BID, etc., en materia de administraci6n
financiera, control, auditoria, etc.;
(b)   actuar de contraparte de la SEOPC frente a los consultores contable-
administrativos y los auditores externos de los prestamos internacionales.
Especificamente, seguir la implementaci6n de los nuevos sistemas contables
de DARE y del diagn6stico sobre organizaci6n financiera central;
(c)   dirigir la organizaci6n (fisica y de trabajo) de la nueva Direcci6n General
de Auditoria Intema de Gesti6n: normas, manuales, capacitaci6n,
programas de trabajo anual, etc.;
(d)   participar en el Programa de Capacitaci6n en Administraci6n Financiera y
Auditoria; y
(e)   mantener informado al Secretario de Estado sobre el progreso de este
programa.



98 -
B.    T2RM1NOS DE REFERENCIA PRELIMINARES PARA CAPACITACI6N EN EL AREA
DE ADMINISTRAcI6Nq FINANCIERA Y AuDIToRIA
L Curso Bdsico en Administraci6n Financiera (CUBAF)
Constaria de cinco seminarios de 30 horas cada uno relacionados las siguientes materias:
* Contabilidad Financiera Moderna
*  Contabilidad de Costos
*  Presupuesto
*  Tesoreria
*  Controles Intemos
*  Administraci6n Puiblica
* Requisitos de Organismos Internacionales.
Total: 150 horas (cinco semanas con periodos separados entre ellas).
Este curso se dirigira a:
* los funcionarios del area contable y financiera y
* los ingenieros a cargo de los prestamos intemacionales.
Se incluiran, tambien,
* fijncionarios seleccionados de la Auditoria Intema, D.G. Administrativa e
* ingenieros de otras Direcciones de la SEOPC,
hasta un total de unas 60-80 personas.
II Curso de Fundamentos de Auditoria Interna de Gestion
Exclusivamente para los funcionarios de la nueva Direcci6n General de Auditoria Interna
de Gesti6n (financistas, contadores e ingenieros)
Total:      60 horas (2 semanas)
Texto basico: Las Normas del Instituto (Internacional) de Auditoria Interna y
Aplicaciones al Sector Publico.
Nota: El Banco preparara, junto con funcionarios escogidos de la SEOPC, el contenido
programatico de cada seminario y el perfil y procedencia de los instructores.



- 99 -
ANEXO 6.4
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TtRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA EL FORTALECIMIENTO DEL DEPARTAMENTO DE
CONTROL DE LA CORTEZA TERRESTRE EN MANEJO AMBIENTAL DE PROYECTOS
VIALES
1.    Introducci6n. La capacidad existente dentro de la SEOPC para manejar los
asuntos ambientales del sector de carreteras debe fortalecerse para garantizar un adecuado
manejo de las obras incluidas en el Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales y de los futuros
proyectos sectoriales que prepare la Secretaria. Como parte de la preparaci6n del
Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales, se adelantaron estudios de impacto ambiental de las
carreteras a ser reconstruidas y tambien estudios ambientales sectoriales que produjeron
propuestas de instrumentos de gesti6n ambiental en el SEOPC. Entre estos instrumentos
se incluyen: (i) un manual de gesti6n ambiental para carreteras en la Republica
Dominicana, que incluye procedimientos de categorizaci6n ambiental de proyectos viales,
guias para la supervisi6n ambiental de obras y guias para la preparaci6n de terminos de
referencia especificos para estudios ambientales de carreteras; y (ii) un manual de
especificaciones ambientales a cumplir por los contratistas de obras viales. Estos
documentos se han incorporado al archivo del proyecto (Project File).
2.    Objetivos. El objetivo de la asistencia tecnica es colaborar con la SEOPC y el
DCCT en la consolidaci6n de las funciones ambientales de la SEOPC. Esta asistencia
t6cnica complementa en un todo los componentes de la asistencia tecnica para el DCCT
contemplado en el proyecto del Banco Inter-Americano de Desarrollo (BID).
3.    Alcance de la Asistencia Tecnica. Especificamente, la asistencia t6cnica debera
apoyar a la SEOPC y al DCCT en: (i) el establecimiento de una Unidad Ambiental
permanente utilizando al Departamento de Control de la Corteza Terrestre (DCCT) como
nucleo de la misma; (ii) la implementaci6n de los mecanismos, procedimientos de gesti6n
ambiental y manuales ambientales producidos durante la preparaci6n del Proyecto; (iii) el
disenio de un mapa de sensibilidad ambiental de la Repuiblica Dominicana para la
categorizaci6n ambiental de nuevos proyectos de carreteras; (iv) el disefno e
implementaci6n de programas de capacitaci6n y entrenamiento en asuntos ambientales
para el personal del DCCT y de otros departamentos relevantes de la SEOPC; y (v) la
definici6n del equipamiento necesario para el DCCT.
4.    Componentes de la Asistencia Tecnica. La asistencia t6cnica se desarrollara a
traves de: una Consultoria Especializada en Asuntos Ambientales. El objetivo de la
consultoria especializada en aspectos ambientales es el de apoyar la consolidaci6n de las
funciones ambientales de la DCCT y la implementaci6n de los mecanismos y
procedimientos de gesti6n ambiental y manuales ambientales. Para alcanzar este objetivo
se contratara un consultor intemacional que tendra a su cargo: (i) formular instrumentos



- 100-
administrativos para la puesta en marcha de los procedimientos de gesti6n ambiental
propuestos durante la preparaci6n del proyecto; (ii) definir las necesidades y prioridades
de entrenamiento y preparar un programa de capacitaci6n y formaci6n; (iii) definir las
necesidades de equipamiento de la Unidad; y (iv) preparar terminos de referencia y asistir
a la SEOPC en la preparaci6n de un mapa de sensibilidad ambiental de la Repiublica
Dominicana para el sector de carreteras. El consultor trabajara coordinadamente con los
consultores especialistas propuestos para contratar dentro del programa del BID.
Calificaciones: ingeniero civil, con especializaci6n en asuntos ambientales,
ec6logo o ge6grafo con experiencia en fortalecimiento institucional y evaluaci6n
de impactos ambientales de proyectos viales; con experiencia en America Latina y
dominio del idioma espaniol.
Duraci6n de la Consultoria: la consultoria se desarrollara durante todo un afio a
traves de tres visitas a la Republica Dominicana de por lo menos dos meses cada
una. Despues de cada visita el consultor preparara: (i) un informe de actividades
ejecutadas; (ii) un cronograma de actividades del DCCT para ejecutar en el
siguiente periodo; y (iii) un listado de metas especificas para el siguiente periodo.
Equipamiento: con base en las necesidades definidas por el consultor, se
adquiriran los equipos y elementos tecnicos necesarios para el buen
fincionamiento de la DCCT en asuntos ambientales.
Capacitaci6ny Entrenamiento: con base en el programa definido por el consultor
se ejecutara un programa de capacitaci6n y entrenamiento para el DCCT y otros
departamentos relevantes de la SEOPC.
5.    Costos de la Asistencia Tecnica. La asistencia tecnica tendra un costo total de
US$200,000 dMlares americanos. La consultoria ambiental especializada se desarrollari
durante el primer afno de ejecuci6n del Proyecto; la definici6n y adquisici6n del
equipatniento se realizara durante el periodo de duraci6n de la consultoria especializada,
asi como la preparaci6n de los mapas y manuales especificos. El plan de capacitacion se
definiri durante la consultoria especializada y se ejecutara durante el periodo del proyecto.
Consultoria Ambiental Especializada
Honorarios                              US$42,000
Viaticos (180 dias @ $120/dia)          US$21,600
Transporte Aereo                         US$ 6,000
Equiparniento (a definir por el consultor)
(incluye vehiculo, computadores,
estereoscopio, camaras, etc. )          US$34,000



- 101 -
Entrenamiento y Capacitaci6n                 US$30,000
(a definir por el consultor)
(incluye: seminarios, eventos
intemacionales, cursos cortos
y visitas tecnicas)
Preparaci6n, edici6n de mapas y manuales     US$26,400
Gastos de personal de contraparte            US$40,000
Total                                       US$200,000



I



- 103 -
ANEXO 6.5
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TtRMINOS DE REFERENciA PARA LA CONTRATACI6N DE SERVICIOS DE CONSULTORIA
PARA LA IMPLANTACI6N DE UN SISTEMA DE ESTADISTICAS Y ANALISIS DE
ACCIDENTES VIALES
1.    Antecedentes. En la Rep4blica Dominicana, existi6 un sistema de registro y
estadistica de los accidentes viales (urbanos y rurales), que fue iniciado en 1966 con la
creaci6n de la Direcci6n General de Transito Terrestre (DGTT), dentro de la Secretaria de
Estado de Obras Piublicas y Comunicaciones (SEOPC), que perdur6 hasta finales de 1982.
El sistema, aunque manual, era, dentro de sus limitaciones, bastante completo y permitia
identificar los puntos criticos en cada via o intersecci6n a travis de la medici6n de
diferentes indicadores de peligrosidad, mortandad, severidad, etc. y permitia hacer
clasificaciones por sexos y grupos de edades de los usuarios, edad y tipo del parque, etc.
2.    En forma grafica, el sistema vial principal de carreteras y las redes urbanas de las
ciudades de Santo Domingo y Santiago eran representados por mapas con alfileres de
cabezas coloreadas seg6n tipos y severidad de los accidentes en los puntos d6nde estos se
producian, tomandose al fin de cada aflo una foto de transparencia. La DGTT lleg6 a
tener una secuencia de mis de diez aflos que mostraba la evoluci6n de los puntos criticos y
la respuesta a las medida correctivas que se tomaron. Desgraciadamente, la mayor parte
de los trabajos tecnicos de la DGTT se fueron relegando a un segundo plano o
desatendidos totalmente a partir de 1982, desapareciendo casi totalmente esta y otras
bases de datos que alli se originaban.
3.    El sistema de accidentes que manejaba la DGTT, tenia su base en un fcrmulario,
adaptado del sistema de registro de accidentes de Puerto Rico. El formulario, comprendia
dos grandes secciones: (a) descripci6n del lugar (vias), del ambiente (clima, visibilidad,
etc.), de los vehiculos (tipos, edades, estado mecanico aparente, etc.), de los protagonistas
y su status (edades, sexos, sobriedad, legalidad, etc.), resultados del accidente (heridos,
muertos, dafios a la propiedad, a terceros, etc.) y otros detalles; y b) un croquis con
convenciones que permitia visualizar el accidente completo, incluyendo: trayectorias antes
y despues de las colisiones, tipo de las colisiones, obstaculos o desperfectos de las vias,
etc.
4.    El formulario era llenado por la policia de trinsito y una copia del mismo era
remitida a la DGTT para su analisis. Los tecnicos de la Secci6n de Analisis de Accidentes
de la DGTT a su vez, mantenian un sistema de entrenamiento, en la aplicaci6n de la Ley
de Transito y el registro de accidentes, para nuevos policias que entraban al servicio de
transito, asi como frecuentes conferencias y seminarios de actualizaci6n para los jefes de
unidades del servicio policial de transito.



- 104 -
5.    Objetivo y Alcance de la Asistencia Tecnica. En general, la asistencia tecnica
debera sentar las bases para la restauraci6n en la DGTT y la Policia Nacional (Policia de
Transito Urbano, y Policia de Carreteras) de un sistema de Registro y Andlisis de
Accidentes Viales (RAA V), teniendo en cuenta que gran parte de los componentes que una
vez existieron, explicados en los antecedentes, ya no existen, incluyendo la capacidad
tecnica que habra que reinstalar.
6.    Dado que, en la policia de transito, el nivel de calificaci6n ha disminuido en
relaci6n con la mostrada en el pasado y que la Secci6n de Analisis de Accidentes de la
DGTT no opera y habra que reclutar y preparar de nuevo a sus componentes, se sugiere
que la informaci6n recolectada este adaptada para trabajar con subconjuntos de
informaci6n basica o simplificada, asi como los planes de capacitaci6n, tanto policial como
tecnica para que, en ulteriores etapas, se complete el sistema por tecnicos entrenados.
7.    El sistema tendria unaprimera etapa que tendria en cuenta las restricciones de
calificaciones del personal de registros de accidentes y que daria lugar a una simplificaci6n
del formulario de registro a ser aplicado. No obstante, el sistema durante esta primera
etapa deberia ser suficiente para medir los principales indicadores de severidad y
peligrosidad de los accidentes, asi como para preparar los mapas de accidentes.
8.    El Consultor deberi dejar preparada la evoluci6n del sistema (etapa o etapas
siguientes, si son necesarias) de forma que los principales tecnicos (contrapartes) que se
capaciten puedan implantarlas en funci6n de un programa basado en metas a alcanzar
dentro de cada etapa.
9.    Por otra parte, el sistema de base de datos y de procesamiento que instale el
Consultor, debera quedar lo mas completo posible, vale decir: que pu.eda operar en
cualquiera de la etapas, ya que lo que se limita en las etapas de implatitaci6n es s6lo la
cantidad de informaci6n de q,ie se dispone y, por tanto, los indicadores de salida
(resultados del analisis) en cada etapa seran aquellos para los que la base de datos tiene
informaci6n registrada.
10.   Seri tambien tarea del Consultor dejar p'reparado lo siguiente: (a) guia para el
ilenado del registro de accidentes; (b) manual de operaci6n de la base de datos; (c) manual
de analisis de accidentes; y (d) guia para el calculo de costos de accidentes viales en la
Republica Dominicana. Tambien debera dejar sus recomendaciones al respecto de: (a)
organismos que intervienen, organizaci6n y su evoluci6n dentro del sistema por etapas; (b)
reformas legales (si fueren necesarias); y (c) analisis del sistema de multas y cargos penales
involucrados en los 'accidentes y recomendaciones sobre sus niveles.
11.   Servicios Profesionales. La Asistencia Tecnica requerira los servicios tecnicos
de:
(a)    Un experto internacional, Ingeniero de Transito  ..........    8 meses
(b)   Un asistente local, Ingeniero de Transito .....................    6 meses



- 105 -
12.   Apoyo de Contrapartida. La SEOPC dispondra (cuando menos) del siguiente
personal de contrapartida, disponible a tiempo completo por el Consultor:
(a)   Ingeniero Encargado Secci6n de Analisis de Accidentes.
(b)   Estadigrafo a cargo de procesamiento y analisis de informaci6n.
(c)   Tecnico a cargo de mapas y graficos de accidentes.
(d)   Tecnico a cargo de enlace y entrenamiento de Policia de Transito.
(e)   Digitadores de Informaci6n (2).
(f)   Secretaria-Archivista.
La Policia Nacional dispondra (cuando menos) del siguiente personal de contrapartida:
(a) Encargado de Registro de Accidentes.
(b) Tecnicos de Registro de Accidentes (2).
(c) Digitador de Informaci6n.
(d) Secretaria-Archivista.
13.   Equipamiento. El equiparniento a proveer por el proyecto consistiri en:
(i)   En la Direcci6n General de Transito Terrestre de la SEOPC:
(a) Local de oficina en la DGTT para asiento de la Secci6n de
Analisis de Accidentes y del Consultor (GORD) (por la
SEOPC).
(b) Escritorios con sus sillones para dos consultores y cada t6cnico
de la secci6n.
(c) Escritorios secretariales para digitadores y secretaria-archivista.
(d) Mesa de dibujo e instrumentaci6n para dibujos.
(e) Archivos metalicos de 4 gavetas.
(f) Computadoras, una con 32 MB RAM y 6 GB en disco, las
demis con 16 MB RAM y 1GB en disco, 2 impresoras laser o
inkjet (una a color), tarjeta modem-fax 14.4 kbs integrada en
cada computador, scanner a color con su software, plotter de
48 pulgadas/ocho plumillas con capacidad de color, Windows
95, Microsoft Office y AutoCad para Windows.



- 106 -
(g) Un equipo fotografico digital con su software.
(ii)    En el Departamento de Transito de la Policia Nacional:
Un (1) computador (16 MB RAM y 1 GB en disco), un impresor
laser, fax-m6dem integrado, Windows 95, Microsoft Office y los
programas de Base de Datos que instale el consultor.
(Nota: Este computador podria transferir la informaci6n del registro de accidentes a uno
de los computadores de la DGTT en la SEOPC via m6dem. Al principio, antes de que se
consiga la habilidad y calificaci6n para trabajar con la informatica por los involucrados, la
SEOPC recibiria copias de los formularios de accidentes para digitarlos directamente en su
base de datos).
14.    Programa y Plazo de Ejecuci6n. La Asistencia Tecnica se preve que puede ser
reali..ada en 10 meses como sigue:
TECNICOS A        Meses
ACTIVIDAD               CARGO              1    2    3    4    5    |6    7   I     9          10
Reconociniiento y estudio  Consultor,       xx
Datos preiiniinares     Asistente Local    xx
Datos adicionales       Asistente Local     xx  x
Diseho de Sistema       Consuhtor                xxx    x
x    X
Presentaci6n de Dis4Io  Consultor                            xx
Aprobaci6n de Sistema   SEOPC                                 xx
Entrenarniento Oficinas
Policia, y DGTT         Asistente Local                           xxx  xx
x
Programaci6n Sistama    Consuhtor                                   xx  xxx
x
Pruebas del Sistema     Consultor                                             xxx
Lienado de Fornulario   Asistente Local                                       xxx
Accidentes              Contrapartida                                         x    M    xxx  xxxx
x
Analisis Infonnaci6n y
Entrenamniento de Con-  Consultor                                               x  xx
trapartida              Asistente Local                                             xxx  xxx
x
Organizaci6n y Etapas   Consultor                                 xxx                xx  xxx
x                      x
Informes y Manuales     Consultor                             xx                               xxxx
Asistente Local                      xx          xx                x  xx
(Nota: x = 1 semana)
Esta programaci6n es s6lo ilustrativa. El Consultor puede cambiar o redefinir las
actividades y los tiempos que le tomara realizarlas, asi como el nuimero y tipo de tecnicos
que estime seran necesarios para llevar a cabo las tareas.
15.    Costos. El presupuesto estimado en US$ para la Asistencia Tecnica se resume en
el Cuadro siguiente.



- 107 -
Costos
Recurso           Descripci6n de Recursos                  Consultor  SEOPC
Personal Experto    Extranjero 8 h-m @ US$ 14,000 112,000
Local    6 h-m @ US$ 3,000   18,000    130,000
Mobiliario        Escritorios, Sillones, Archivos, Mesas, etc.        15,000
Material Gastable   Papel, Folders, Encuademaciones, etc.             3,250
Per-Diem           Contrapartes (7 personas @ US$ 275/mes)            19,250
Equipos            Sistemas Computaci6n, Fotogrifico, etc.  20,000
Totale                                                     150.00    37,50
OO)                                                       80.0%     20. 00%






- 109-
ANEXO 6.6
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TIRMINOS DE REFERENciA PARA LA CONTRATACI6N DE SERVICIOS DE CONSULTORIA
PARA LA ELABORACI6N DE UN PLAN DE INVERSIONES DEL SECTOR TRANSPORTE
1.    Antecedentes. En 1976, con financiamiento del Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo, se llev6 a efecto el primer estudio del sector transporte que se denomin6
Estudio Tecnico-Econ6mico del Sector Transporte y que debiera servir de base a
ulteriores programas de inversiones en el sector. Mas tarde, en 1989, el Banco Mundial
financi6 un programa que se denomin6: Asistencia Tecnicapara Implantar un Sistema de
Planificaci6nyAdministraci6n del Transporte. En ambos casos, los resultados obtenidos
fueron casi identicos, ambos resultaron ser utiles instrumentos de diagn6stico y de
identificaci6n de proyectos a nivel de perfiles. Sin embargo, para obtener planes concretos
hubo, en cada caso, la necesidad de contratar consultoria adicional que completara los
analisis tanto en los casos de preparaci6n de los prestamos 1784-DO (1976-1978) y 2609-
DO (1982-1984) como en el del prestamo 3350-DO (1988-1990).
2.    En terminos de planificaci6n, la SEOPC oferta en la actualidad un buen soporte
que puede servir de guia al Consultor para producir planes concretos en las ireas de
infraestructura del sector, tales como: carreteras, caminos vecinales, puertos y
aeropuertos. En el irea de servicios (explotaci6n), como el transporte urbano, se cuenta
con los planes preparados por el Estudio de Transporte Urbano financiado a trav6s del
prestamo 3350-DO. La capacidad instalada para la planificaci6n de la explotaci6n del
transporte aereo, maritimo, y de carga y pasajeros por carreteras es casi nula y es poco lo
que, por el momento, puede hacerse sin recurrir a la utilizaci6n de costosas encuestas y
estudios para definir los parametros que definen cada una de estas areas.
3.    Alcance de la Asistencia Tecnica. Como consecuencia de lo anteriormente
dicho, el alcance de estos Terminos de Referencia (TDR), abarca, pero no se limita a, la
programaci6n, al menos para cinco afSos, de proyectos de mejoramiento infraestructural o
de nuevos proyectos analizados tecnica y econ6micamente a nivel de prefactibilidad.
4.    De algunos de los posibles proyectos, la SEOPC, sus tecnicos y los consultores
contratados, ya tienen perfiles y/o la informaci6n basica para su analisis, o bien la SEOPC
podra producirla con la guia del Consultor.
5.    Para el subsector vialidad (carreteras y caminos vecinales) el Consultor contara
con el apoyo de: (a) Direcci6n General de Mantenimiento de Carreteras y Caminos
Vecinales (DGMCCV), y (b) Departamento de Administraci6n y Estudios de Pavimentos
(DAEP) de la Direcci6n General de Programaci6n de Inversiones (DGPI), que manejan
los inventarios y los modelos de planificacion econ6mica HDM aplicable preferentemente
a carreteras y Rural Road Model (RRM) aplicable s6lo a caminos rurales.



- 110-
6.    Con menor cantidad de herramientas de analisis a su disposici6n, el Departamento
de Muelles y Puertos de la SEOPC puede auxiliar y ser util en la programaci6n de las
inversiones del subsector. En el caso del subsector de aeropuertos, el Consultor debera
identificar y evaluar las posibilidades de proyectos en funci6n de ayudas prestadas por
organizaciones localizadas fuera de la SEOPC, como son: (a) la Direcci6n General de
Aeronautica Civil, (b) la Junta de Aeronautica Civil y (c) la Oficina Nacional de
Planificaci6n (ONAPLAN).
7.    Servicios Profesionales. Se requeriran servicios profesionales por un total de 10
hombres-meses divididos de la siguiente forma:
Experto a cargo del programa de carreteras y caminos vecinales (2000-2004)    4 meses
Experto a cargo del programa de puertos (2000-2004)                3 meses
Experto a cargo del programa de aeropuertos (2000-2004)            2 meses
Experto a cargo de integraci6n y planes de financiamniento         1 meses
Total                                                      10 meses
(Nota: La divisi6n de los tiempos y los tipos de expertos pueden ser carnbiados por el Consultor
siempre que lo propuesto cumpla con el alcance requerido).
8.    Contrapartida. La SEOPC dispondra la contrapartida correspondiente y que, en
principio, se concreta en el apoyo del personal de la SEOPC para:
(a)    Realizaci6n de Inventarios y Obtenci6n de Informaciones.
(b)    Predisefios Viales.
(c)    Analisis de Costos de Obras Civiles.
(d)   Analisis Econ6mico con el HDM o con el RRM.
Se nombrara tambien un enlace interinstitucional para que sirva de intermediario en las
visitas y obtencion de informaciones que se producen en otras instituciones. Esta persona
tendra el apoyo superior de la SEOPC para facilitar al maximo su trabajo.



- 111-
ANEXO 6.7
REPUBLICA DOMNCANA
PROYECrO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TtRMNOS DE REFERENCLA PARA LA ASISTENCTA TECNICA A LA SEOPC EN EL
DESARROLLO DEL PLAN DIRECrOR DE DRENAJE PLUVIAL Y SANEAMIENTO DE AGUAS
DE SANTO DoMINGo.
Antecedentes.
1.1   Saneamiento de aguas. La infraestructura sanitaria relativa a la red de
drenaje y evacuaci6n de aguas residuales de la ciudad de Santo Domingo alcanza
s6lo a un 27% de la poblaci6n. La red esta formada por grupos independientes, es
decir sin soluci6n de continuidad, vertiendo cada una de estas unidades
aisladamente, y quedando extensas areas de la ciudad sin servicio, tanto en zonas
de alto nivel econ6mico como de clase media o baja. En la mayoria de los casos,
el vertido se hace directamente al medio receptor sin tratamiento previo, bien a los
rios del ambito metropolitano (Haina, Isabela y Ozama) o bien al mar Caribe, que
configura el limite meridional de la ciudad. Estos vertidos -junto con otros
factores- han provocado un grave problema de contaminaci6n en dichas aguas,
situaci6n que debe ser modificada con la maxima urgencia para evitar la total
degradaci6n de la zona, con sus obvias consecuencias sobre el futuro econ6mico
del pais y el bienestar de sus habitantes, cuyo desarrollo esta basado en una fuerte
dependencia de los ingresos por turismo.
1.2   Drenaje pluvial. En relacion al drenaje de las aguas pluviales, el sistema de
alcantarillado pluvial consta de unos 136 km. de alcantarillas y casi 5,000
imbomales, que desaguan la aportaci6n de una superficie de s6lo 2.225 Ha, o sea
algo mas de un 10% de las 22,000 Ha que ocupa Santo Domingo. Existen muchas
conexiones ilegales de vertidos industriales y domesticos a la red de colectores
pluviales, que sera necesario caracterizar y, en alguin caso, eliminar. Hay zonas
que, sin disponer de red de drenaje pluvial, evacuan las escorrentias por infiltraci6n
en el subsuelo o mediante fosas areneras de almacenamiento y pozos filtrantes. La
permeabilidad de estas soluciones provisionales es muy baja, lo que da lugar a
tiempos de drenaje elevados, con las perniciosas consecuencias que la
sobreelevaci6n de la limina de agua conlleva, tanto sobre los bienes inundados
como, de un modo mis transitorio pero muy perceptible en este caso, sobre la
circulaci6n de vehiculos y peatones. Diversos puntos de avenidas principales, con
cuatro o mas carriles de circulaci6n, se hacen impracticables durante horas (e
incluso dias), con los correspondientes colapsos circulatorios. Todos los sectores
sociales y econ6micos han destacado la extrema urgencia y maxima prioridad de
resoluci6n de dicho problema.



- 112-
1.3   Planeamiento. El Ayuntamiento de Santo Domingo (ADN) elabor6, en
mayo de 1993, dentro del "Programa de reestructuraci6n y crecimiento de la
Ciudad de Santo Domingo y el Distrito Nacional", un estudio sobre la calidad de
las aguas superficiales, en el ambito de unos acuerdos de cooperaci6n tecnica
establecidos entre los Gobiemos de la Repiublica Dominicana e Italia. El citado
estudio, en el que se examinan las caracteristicas de los vertidos, asi como el
estado actual de la calidad de las aguas y de las infraestructuras sanitarias
existentes en la ciudad de Santo Domingo y en el Distrito Nacional, no Ilega
proponer una soluci6n concreta al problema. Por otra parte, el prestamo 3350-DO
financia un Estudio de Transporte Urbano en el que se contempla una
remodelaci6n de las principales avenidas y vias de comunicaci6n, que es preciso
desarrollar de modo coordinado y simultaneo con el Plan Director de Drenaje y
Saneamiento Urbano.
2.    Objetivos. El objetivo general de esta asistencia tecnica es preparar el Plan
Director de Drenaje Pluvial y Saneamiento de Aguas de Santo Domingo y su area
metropolitana.
3.    Ambito fisico y temporal. El ambito fisico del estudio se fija, de un modo
preliminar, en el area limitada al oeste por el rio Haina, at este por el meridiano de longitud
69 grados 40 minutos oeste (que pasa por el Aeropuerto Internacional de Las Americas -
AILA), al norte por la caniada Guzman, el rio Manzano y el rio Isabela, y al sur por el mar
Caribe. El ambito temporal o aflo horizonte del estudio debera ser fijado por cada
licitador, en funci6n de la propuesta especifica que presente, que debera concretar las
etapas necesarias, asi como la asignaci6n temporal y financiera a cada etapa.
4.    Alcance de la Asistencia Tecnica. Las principales tareas a realizar mediante esta
asistencia tecnica son:
(a)   Estudiar las caracteristicas fisicas de la zona.
(b)   Revisar los datos disponibles de las redes de saneamiento de aguas
pluviales como de aguas negras, actualizando el inventario de las
infraestructuras existentes.
(c)   Determinar las cuencas urbanas vertientes que formaran los principales ejes
drenantes del area metropolitana.
(d)   Estudiar para cada cuenca, el tipo de urbanizaci6n existente y la previsi6n
de crecimiento seguin los planes de ordenaci6n territorial existentes o sus
expectativas de desarrollo (industrial, habitacional, sanitario, de servicios,
etc.) en funci6n del entorno actual.
(e)   Estudiar, para cada cuenca y sector, la poblaci6n asentada y la maxima
ocupaci6n posible en el futuro.



- 113 -
(f)    Estudiar el consumo por persona y dia en la situaci6n actual, de acuerdo
con el tipo de poblaci6n asentado en cada cuenca, asi como su previsible
crecimiento con la mejora de las condiciones de vida.
(g)   Estudiar el regimen de lluvias para determinar la intensidad de calculo y las
restantes magnitudes de la precipitaci6n.
(h)   Estudiar, en funci6n del tipo de urbanizaci6n, los coeficientes de escorrenia
que deberan tenerse en cuenta para cada cuenca y sector, asi como sus
tiempos de concentraci6n.
(i)    Plantear y elegir, en cada caso y de acuerdo con las circunstancias
especiales de cada zona, la posibilidad de implantar una iinica red unitaria
de saneamiento o bien plantear redes separativas, en funci6n del punto de
destino de las aguas pluviales y de las aguas negras.
(j)    Diseniar el esquema de la red de colectores teniendo en cuenta la red
existente, incluyendo la red de colectores interceptores de aguas residuales
con sus instalaciones complementarias.
(k)   Estudiar las cargas contaminantes en la situaci6n actual, en funci6n de los
analisis que se efectfien en los distintos puntos de vertido.
(l)    Establecer las condiciones de vertidos especiales (industriales y/o de
servicios).
(m)   Proponer la ubicaci6n de las estaciones de tratamiento, previendo su
construcci6n por fases en funci6n de los resultados a obtener y de la
poblaci6n a servir.
(n)   Estudiar el desague de los efluentes depurados en funci6n del medio
receptor.
(o)   Proponer un plan de acondicionamiento y evacuaci6n de los fangos
obtenidos en las plantas depuradoras.
(p)   Disefiar los procesos y elementos basicos de las estaciones de tratamiento.
(q)   Formular el Programa de Inversiones.
5.    Trabajos a Efectuar. Los distintos trabajos a efectuar se detallan a continuaci6n,
atendiendo a la ordenaci6n expresada anteriormente.
5.1   Estudiar las caracteristicasfisicas de la zona. La primera labor consistira
en la obtenci6n de los datos orograficos y geotecnicos del area metropolitana para
proponer, con pleno conocimiento, la mejor soluci6n posible para la implantacion
de una red de drenaje. En relaci6n a la cartografia de trabajo, se deberan obtener



- 114-
pianos generales a E/ 1:25.000 y E/ 1:10.000 y, para el desarrollo de estudios mas
detallados, planos generales a escala 1:5.000 con curvas de nivel cada 5 m y planos
de detalle a escala 1:2.000 con curvas de nivel cada 2 mn, con profusi6n de cotas en
las zonas urbanas. Dicha informaci6n debera ser recogida en soporte grafico y
magnetico para su posterior tratamiento. Asimismo se recopilara la informaci6n
existente para confeccionar un plano geotecnico a E: 1/50.000 de toda el area
metropolitana, acompafiado de una memoria explicativa de las caracteristicas del
subsuelo de cada sector.
5.2   Revisar los datos disponibles de las redes de Saneamiento de aguas
pluviales como de aguas negras, actualizando el inventario de las
infraestructuras existentes. El segundo trabajo consistira en la revisi6n del
inventariado de la red existente actualizandolo y localizando, por coordenadas, la
situaci6n de registros e imbomales. Dicha informaci6n debera trasladarse a la
cartografia digitalizada a E 1/.2000, incluyendo caracteristicas de los colectores,
sentido de las aguas, puntos de vertido, etc., confeccionando, si es necesario,
croquis de aquellos registros en los que confluyan diversos colectores que no
puedan reflejarse c6modamente en los planos generales. Se realizari asimismo un
inventario completo de los puntos de vertido a los rios Ozama e Isabela y al mar
Caribe. Se estudiari la capacidad de la red existente y se realizara una prognosis
del estado de la misma, con el fin de determinar la parte de la red que es suficiente,
la que debe remodelarse y la que se puede aprovechar, segun sean los
planteamientos del Plan Director para la situaci6n futura. Finalmente, deberin
inventariarse las infraestructuras mas importantes situadas en el subsuelo urbano,
que puedan condicionar el trazado de los colectores a proyectar. Tambien debera
establecerse un plan de mantenimiento y explotaci6n de la actual red de
alcantarillado de acuerdo con los recursos disponibles.
5.3   Determinar las cuencas urbanas vertientes que formaran los principales
ejes drenantes del area metropolitana. El tercer trabajo supone la definici6n de
una posible red, dividiendo el territorio basicamente en funci6n de su orografia, en
diversas cuencas, que se estudiarAn independientes unas de otras, siendo esta
zonificaci6n la unidad de trabajo para el desarrollo del Plan Director.
5.4   Estudiar para cada cuenca, el tipo de urbanizacidn existente y la
previsi6n de crecimiento segiun los planes de ordenaci6n territorial existentes, o
sus expectativas de desarrollo (industrial, habitacional, sanitario, de servicios,
etc.) enfunci6n del entorno actual. La cuarta tarea estribara en deternminar, para
cada unidad de zonificaci6n, y teniendo en cuenta los planes de urbanizaci6n
desarrollados o propuestos -si los hay-, y la estimaci6n de crecimiento del sector o
cuenca de acuerdo con el tipo de urbanizaci6n existente, la previsi6n de la maxima
ocupaci6n fuitura de cada cuenca. Debera compararse el censo actual con la
maxima ocupaci6n prevista para conocer, de acuerdo con las tasas de crecimiento
actuales, cual sera el affo horizonte de total ocupaci6n del terreno del area
metropolitana.



- 115 -
5.5   Estudiar, para cada cuencay sector, la poblaci6n asentaday la m&dxma
ocupaci6n posible en elfuturo. El quinto trabajo consistiri en estudiar para cada
unidad de zonificaci6n la poblaci6n asentada actualmente, teniendo en cuenta el
tipo de urbanizaci6n o uso del suelo existente. La suma de las poblaciones de
todas las cuencas debera coincidir con el censo de la poblaci6n. La prognosis de la
poblaci6n en el afio horizonte debera hacerse con base en la metodologia
apropiada.
5.6   Estudiar el consumo por persona y dia en la situaci6n actual, de acuerdo
con el tipo de poblaci6n asentado en cada cuenca, asi como su previsible
crecimiento con la mejora de las condiciones de vida. El sexto trabajo consistira
en conocer, a traves de los servicios de abastecimiento, el consumo de agua diario
por habitante. Debera diferenciarse la tasa de consumo por habitante, segun las
caracteristicas de las viviendas de cada sector, por uso dom6stico, industrial o de
servicios, y su estimaci6n en un futuro, considerando el afio horizonte y el
incremento de dotaci6n como resultado del analisis de aumento de la demanda de
los uItimos afios. Para completar el estudio de caudales de aguas residuales
generados, se considerara el consumo no domestico seguin el tipo de industria o
servicio existente en cada zona y el consumo relativo por unidad de producci6n.
5.7   Estudiar el regimen de lluvias para determinar la intensidad de cdlculo y
las restantes magnitudes de la precipitaci6n. La septima tarea consistiri en
analizar el regimen de lluvias de Santo Domingo, para conocer la m(axima
intensidad del chaparr6n en funci6n del tiempo de duraci6n y la periodicidad del
mismo, y en determinar, conjuntamente con la Direcci6n T6cnica del Plan, el
periodo de recurrencia que deberi considerarse en las distintas cuencas, teniendo
en cuenta los riesgos que puedan asumnirse, en casos de inundaciones, cuando se
producen lluvias de intensidad superior a las del periodo de recurrencia adoptado.
5.8   Estudiar, en funcion del tipo de urbanizaci6n, los coeficientes de
escorrentia que deberdn tenerse en cuenta para cada cuencay sector, asi como
sus tiempos de concentraci6n. El octavo cometido sera evaluar, en funci6n de las
caracteristicas del terreno, pendiente, tipo de suelo, etc., el coeficiente de
escorrentia de cada zona. Debera preverse en un fuituro una mayor
impermeabilizaci6n del terreno a medida que se extienda la superficie construida.
Se determinaran los parametros de disenio (tiempos de concentraci6n, caudales
punta, carga de sedimentos, etc.) para cada una de las unidades de zonificaci6n.
5.9   Plantear y elegir, en cada caso y de acuerdo con las circunstancias
especiales de cada zona, las alternativas de implantar una tunica red unitaria de
saneamiento o bien plantear redes separativas, enfuncion delpunto de destino de
las aguas pluvialesy negras. La novena tarea sera decidir para cada cuenca, a la
vista de los datos obtenidos, el tipo de red de drenaje a proyectar. Se estudiaran
obligatoriamente las opciones de red unitaria y red separativa. Las aguas pluviales
deben ser evacuadas lo mas rapidamente posible a los cauces receptores o al mar,
tomando el camino mas directo, y los destinos de las aguas residuales seran las



- 116-
estaciones depuradoras. Los colectores unitarios o los de aguas negras -caso de
sistema separativo-, antes de desembocar al exterior, deberan ser conectados al
interceptor general que recoja las aguas residuales y las conduzca a la respectiva
depuradora, evitando asi su vertido directo al entorno. En tiempo liuvioso, cuando
-para el caso de sistema unitario- por los colectores desciendan conjuntamente
aguas pluviales y residuales, la interceptaci6n de estas uiltimas debera hacerse con
un grado de diluci6n igual o superior a cinco, para evitar lexiviados demasiado
contaminados.
5.10  Diseiar el esquema de la red de colectores, teniendo en cuenta la red
existente, incluyendo la red de colectores interceptores de aguas residuales con
sus instalaciones complementarias. El decimo cometido implica el desarrollo del
proyecto basico de los colectores concentradores y la red secundaria de cada
cuenca, asi como el disefio de los colectores interceptores de aguas residuales, que
por su extremada longitud deberan proyectarse en forma discontinua, con bombeos
intermedios para mantener la rasante del colector lo mas pr6xima al terreno y
evitar el encarecimiento de su construcci6n. La elaboraci6n de este proyecto
basico no tendra un caracter detallado, sino que recogera los esquemas generales
que deberan tenerse en cuenta en el desarrollo de los proyectos constructivos de
cada colector. Por ello, este plan basico se realizara en base a la cartografia
obtenida a escala 1:2.000, y en 6l se determinaran, para los puntos principales de la
red, los caudales de disefio de los colectores, las secciones y materiales
recomendados y los perfiles longitudinales previstos para la red de colectores
concentradores, estimandose por otro lado las secciones de la red secundaria.
En relaci6n a la captaci6n de aguas pluviales, debera tenerse muy presente la
orografia de la zona, para situar los imbornales donde realmente sean necesarios a
fin de evitar inundaciones de determinadas zonas, mientras que si se dispone de
pendiente suficiente podra proponerse un sistema mixto de desague por superficie
y por colector anegado, para minimizar las inversiones a realizar. Deberan
proponerse unos disefios de instalaciones complementarias tipo, para
homogeneizar el desarrollo de la red, como pueden ser fosas areneras, aliviaderos
de aguas pluviales, pozos de resalto, pozos de intercepci6n de aguas negras,
estaciones de bombeo, etc.
El proyecto basico se valorara a precios de mercado, lo mas desglosado posible y
separadamente para cada cuenca, con el fin de poder programar las inversiones a
realizar en las distintas fases en que deba desarrollarse el Plan Director. Por lo que
a la red de colectores se refiere, se dimensionaran a la situaci6n futura, para
rentabilizar al maximo las inversiones realizadas.
5.11 Estudiar las cargas contaminantes, en la situaci6n actual, enfunci6n de
los andlisis que se efectuen en los distintos puntos de vertido. Las siguientes
tareas a desarrollar determinaran el sistema de tratamiento y evacuaci6n de las
aguas residuales. En primer lugar, se caracterizaran tanto cualitativa como
cuantitativamente los vertidos y cargas contaminantes de las diferentes cuencas,



- 117-
tanto los ya controlados como los restantes, que deberan incorporarse a la red
paulatinamente.
5.12 Establecer las condiciones de vertidos especiales (industriales y/o de
servicios). Puede que existan puntos de vertido que, por su origen, principalmente
en zonas industriales, viertan efluentes con cargas contaminantes tan elevadas o tan
t6xicas, peligrosas o nocivas que impidan su tratamiento conjunto con las aguas
residuales de origen domestico. En esta eventualidad, se plantearan diversas
soluciones, ya sea obligar a cada industria que pre-trate sus efluentes hasta un nivel
de calidad aceptable para el posterior tratamiento conjunto con el resto de aguas
residuales, ya sea mediante un pretratamiento conjunto de las aguas residuales
industriales, etc. En cualquier caso, el Plan Director debera establecer una
normativa de uso de la red de alcantarillado, indicando, para cada caso, los limnites
maximos de contaminaci6n de cada parametro aceptables para incorporar un
vertido determinado en la red de alcantarillado.
5.13 Proponer la ubicaci6n de las Estaciones de Tratamiento. Como
complemento al plan de ejecuci6n de la red de colectores, se propondra el numero
y ubicaci6n de las depuradoras. Junto con la decisi6n adoptada, deberan aportarse
los datos que hagan posible realizar, dentro del plan de ordenaci6n del area
metropolitana, las reservas de suelo suficientes para albergar las estaciones de
tratamiento a construir en el futuro.
5.14  Estudiar el desague de los efluentes depurados enfunci6n del medio
receptor. Una vez planteada la situaci6n de las estaciones depuradoras, debera
definirse en cada caso, de acuerdo con las normativas internacionales de defensa de
cauces, aguas continentales superficiales y subterraneas y aguas marinas, el grado
de depuraci6n a que deberan someterse las aguas residuales en las plantas
depuradoras, segin sean el medio receptor, en funci6n del punto de vertido y del
grado de diluci6n de las aguas depuradas en las del medio receptor. Se requerira
un menor grado de tratamiento en las depuradoras costeras que en las interiores
que verteran el efluente al rio, ya que en este caso el objetivo prioritario es el de la
recuperaci6n total del rio para alcanzar las condiciones naturales de calidad de las
aguas.
5.15 Proponer un plan de acondicionamiento y evacuaci6n de losfangos
obtenidos en lasplantas depuradoras. Debera proponerse un plan de gesti6n o
eliminaci6n de los residuos obtenidos en las plantas depuradoras, teniendo en
cuenta las fases de construcci6n de las plantas, el grado de estabilizaci6n y
mineralizaci6n de los fangos y su posible aplicaci6n al suelo agricola u otros usos
antes de mandarlos directamente a vertedero, si su recuperaci6n puede ser
rentable.
5.16 Disenar los procesosy elementos basicos de las Estaciones de
Tratamiento (E. T.). La elaboraci6n de estos proyectos basicos no supondra un
mayor nivel de detalle dentro del plan Director, sino que recogera los esquemas



- 118-
generales que deberan tenerse en cuenta en el desarrollo de los proyectos
constructivos de cada E. T. Como paso previo al disefno de cada una de ellas:
(a)    Se caracterizaran las aguas residuales generadas en las diferentes zonas del
area metropolitana, que llegaran a cada estaci6n de tratamiento, en funci6n
de los resultados aportados en los apartados 5.11 y 5.12.
(b)   Se estableceran los parametros de disefio basicos de cada depuradora, tanto
para la situaci6n actual como futura, y los resultados a obtener en cada una
de las fases de construcci6n propuestas, teniendo siempre en cuenta el
medio receptor y su capacidad de diluci6n, seguin el epigrafe 5.14.
(c)    Se considerara en principio la opci6n de vertido de las aguas residuales
(despues de un tratamiento primario) directamente al mar a traves de un
emisario submarino; para ello, deberan conocerse la batimetria del litoral y
el sentido de las corrientes marinas pr6ximas a la costa para elegir el punto
de vertido mas id6neo.
(d)   Se establecera el plan de ejecuci6n de cada una de las depuradoras en
funci6n del coste de las inversiones de cada soluci6n alternativa.
(e)   Las depuradoras actuaran como unidades de gesti6n del sistema de
Saneamiento y drenaje de Santo Domingo y el Distrito Nacional. Cada
depuradora debera asumir la responsabilidad de gesti6n de los colectores y
residuos (lodos) correspondientes a su sistema de Saneamiento y debera
preverse un plan de control descentralizado para cada depuradora, del
fuincionamiento y estado de las instalaciones a lo largo de la red, como
areneros, compuertas de alivio, estaciones de bombeo, etc.
5.17  Formular el Programa de Inversiones. Una vez establecido y valorado el
Plan Director, la ultima tarea a realizar sera la formulaci6n de un programa de
inversiones en diversos periodos en el que se compagine y acompase la resoluci6n
en el tiempo de los problemas mas perentorios con los objetivos finales del plan.
Este programa de inversiones debera contemplar las fuentes de financiaci6n que
puedan hacer viable la ejecuci6n de las obras, asi como el mantenimiento y
explotaci6n de las instalaciones.
6.    Dotaci6n de Personal. La asistencia tecnica sera proporcionada por los
especialistas siguientes:
Un (1) Ingeniero sanitario o ambiental con experiencia probada en redacci6n
de planes directores de saneamiento. Este especialista sera el director y
coordinador del equipo de trabajo y representante del consultor frente a la
administraci6n (12 meses).



- 119-
*   Un (1) Ingeniero especialista en hidrologia e hidraulica con experiencia en el
disefio de redes de drenaje y de saneamiento. Se responsabilizara tambien del
estudio del regimen pluviometrico de la zona para determinar las escorrentias
que se puedan generar en la situaci6n actual y futura (12 meses).
*   Un (1) Ingeniero especialista en depuraci6n de aguas con experiencia en el
disenio de plantas depuradoras. Se responsabilizara tambien de la
caracterizaci6n de los vertidos y de la redacci6n de la ordenanza de
alcantarillado (6 meses).
*   Un (1) Ingeniero especialista en obra civil con experiencia en disenio de obras
de fabrica y de drenaje (8 meses).
*   Un (1) Ge6logo especialista en la confecci6n de planos geol6gicos (3 meses).
*   Dos (2) Equipos de topografia, compuestos por un top6grafo y su ayudante,
para la revisi6n de los inventarios de las infraestructuras existentes y revisi6n
de la cartografia restituida (4 meses).
*  Un (1) Tecnico ayudante para realizar los estudios de distribuci6n de
poblaci6n actual y futura y los estudios de dotaciones y prognosis de caudales
de aguas residuales generadas (6 meses).
*   Un (1) Tecnico especialista en equipos electromecanicos (4 meses).
*   Un (1) Tecnico especialista en sistemas de control y telemando de redes de
saneamiento y estaciones depuradoras (2 meses).
*   Tres (3) Tecnicos especialistas en obra civil para el disento y valoraci6n de
redes de saneamiento y estaciones depuradoras (4 meses).
*   Un (1) Economista especialista en el analisis de inversiones para establecer,
junto con los tecnicos proyectistas, el plan de actuaciones a realizar por fases
y determinar el sistema de financiaci6n de cada una de las fases (2 meses).
*   Cinco (5) Delineantes proyectistas para la elaboraci6n de los planos y disenio
basico de las unidades de saneamiento (8 meses).
*   Un (1) Administrativo para la recopilaci6n y mecanografiado de los
documentos escritos que conformnaran el Plan Director (12 meses).
Se preve que esta asistencia tecnica se realizara en un (1) afio y requerira un total
de ciento treinta y cinco (135) meses-hombre. Todo el personal debe dominar el idioma
espafiol.



- 120 -
7.    Programa e Informes. Los informes se presentaran en un (1) original
encarpetado y diez (10) copias debidamente encuademadas, todos ellos en formato de
Carta (8,5" x 11 ") y orientaci6n vertical, y con los planos (si los hubiere) en tamanio
miltiplo de dicho formato y doblados en esas mismas dimensiones. Todos los
documentos en papel seran presentados con escritura mecanizada o similar, sin
alteraciones o adiciones caligraficas. El original debera estar suscrito por el director de la
consultoria en la ultima pagina de cada capitulo, asi como -en todas las que presenten
tachaduras o enmiendas- a la altura de la linea o lineas en que estas se presenten. El titulo
de la portada y contraportada (o primera pagina) contendra como mninimo los siguientes
datos: pais, secretaria de estado, nombre y numero del proyecto, referencia del prestamo,
identificaci6n del informe, firma consultora, lugar y fecha de redacci6n. Todos los
informes incluiran en sus primeras hojas un indice detallado del contenido, incluyendo el
numero de la pagina correspondiente.
7.1   Programa de Trabajos. En el primer mes los consultores presentaran un
programa inicial, en un (1) original y cinco (5) copias con las actividades a realizar
dentro del plazo establecido en el contrato (doce (12) meses). Este programa
consistira en lo siguiente, pero sin limnitarse a ello: (i) analisis y evaluaci6n de la
situaci6n existente; (ii) inventario de la infraestructura sanitaria actual; (iii)
determinaci6n de las hip6tesis basicas para el disefio de la red de alcantarillado;
(iv) diserio basico y valoraci6n de la red de alcantarillado con recomendaciones
para la redacci6n de los proyectos constructivos; (v) disenio bAsico y valoraci6n de
las estaciones depuradoras a remodelar y a construir; (vi) planificacion de las obras
a realizar; (vii) estudio de la financiaci6n de las inversiones; (viii) propuesta del
plan de mantenimiento y explotaci6n de la red construida; (ix) periodificaci6n de
actividades a realizar, divididas seguin las secciones de estos terminos de referencia
o segun la clasificaci6n que figure en la oferta, si esta fuera distinta o mas
detallada; (x) asignaci6n de recursos a cada actividad y previsi6n de necesidades de
personal de contraparte; (xi) coordinaci6n con los contratos y los programas en
marcha; (xii) desfases u holguras admisibles, y puntos criticos o condicionantes;
(xiii) cronogramas de dedicaci6n de los consultores; (xiv) valoraci6n mensual y
acumulada de los trabajos; y (xv) informes adicionales previstos.
7.2   Aprobaci6n y modificaci6n del Programa La OCP aprobara el programa
presentado, o alternativamente ordenara la introducci6n de las modificaciones que
estime pertinentes. Una vez acordado y aprobado, el programa tendra caracter
contractual y definitivo, a salvo de las posteriores correcciones, las cuales
precisarin de aprobaci6n expresa y escrita de la OCP para resultar efectivas.
7.3   Informes de presentaci6n obligatoria. La empresa consultora estara
obligada a presentar informes de progreso de los trabajos con periodicidad
trimestral, asi como un informe final que contenga y compendie toda la
informaci6n y documentaci6n recogida y elaborada. Todos los informes deberan
presentarse dentro de los quince (15) dias posteriores a la fecha de finalizaci6n del
periodo a que correspondan, salvo el informe final, para el cual el plazo se
ampliara a treinta (30) dias.



- 121 -
7.4   Informes Trimestrales. Los informes trimestrales incluiran sin caricter
limnitativo, lo siguiente: (i) antecedentes; (ii) introducci6n, objetivos, tiempo de
ejecuci6n a la fecha y addenda que se han originado; (iii) personal asignado a la
Asistencia Tecnica; (iv) labores realizadas en el trimestre; (v) programaci6n del
siguiente periodo; (vi) estado de la ejecuci6n financiera; (vii) comentarios y
sugerencias de la SEOPC; (vii) conclusiones; y (viii) Anexos: A, graficos
(cronogramas, grado de ejecuci6n presupuestaria, facturaci6n, producci6n,
amortizaci6n del anticipo, estado financiero) y B, documentos entregados en el
periodo.
7.5   Informes especiales. La empresa consultora presentara discrecionalmente
informes especiales cuando, a su juicio, se den circunstancias o hechos
excepcionales que comprometan o incidan en el desarrollo futuro de los trabajos a
supervisar o ejecutar. Dichos informes analizaran la naturaleza de lo ocurrido y/o
los riesgos en que pueda incurrirse en el futuro, y aportaran las recomendaciones o
altemativas para que pueda adoptarse la decisi6n mas id6nea. Los informes se
presentaran en tiempo y forma tal que garanticen al maximo su operatividad.
7.6   Informe Final. El informe final contendra y compendiara toda la
informaci6n y documentaci6n recogida y elaborada en los soportes que se estime
oportuno por ambas partes. Si alguna de esta documentaci6n ha sido ya entregada
a la SEOPC, se hara constar expresamente tal circunstancia. En este informe el
consultor, a modo de conclusi6n, recopilara y resumira las indicaciones,
recomendaciones y estandares que deban tenierse en cuenta en e! future, asi como
los asuntos que hayan quedado pendientes o s6lo parcialmente resueltos y que, a
su juicio, requieran posterior diagn6stico o intervenci6n. Asimismo, se presentara
la ordenaci6n y sistematica definitivas de los documentos elaborados con
indicaci6n del lugar y dependencia donde ha sido depositado el ejemplar o
ejemplares destinados al uso publico, con el fin de facilitar su posterior
recuperaci6n.
El informe final constituira el Plan Director de Drenaje Pluvial y Saneamiento de
Aguas de Santo Domingo, D.N. y se subdividira en los distintos documentos que
lo conforman que, sin caracter limitativo, seran: (i) inventario de las
infraestructuras existentes; (ii) proyectos basicos de la red de saneamiento
incluyendo las directrices esenciales que deberan tener en cuenta los proyectistas
de las obras a realizar; (iii) criterios de disenio de las estaciones depuradoras y
reserva de terrenos para la ubicaci6n de las mismas; (iv) normativa de vertidos a la
red de saneamiento; (v) programa de inversiones; (vi) resumen final del Plan
Director de Saneamiento recogiendo los objetivos a corto, medio y largo plazo; y
(vii) propuesta de folleto divulgativo del Plan Director de Saneamiento para
informar a la poblaci6n beneficiada.



I



- 123 -
ANEXO 6.8
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO NACIONAL DE CARRETERAS
TtRMINOS DE REFERENCL PARA LA ASISTENCIA TtCNICA A LA SEOPC
PARA EL EsTuDIo INFORMATIVO DE AMPLIACI6N DE LA CARRETERA
DE SAmTO DOMINGO A BANI
A.   Objeto y Definici6n del Estudio Informativo
1.    El objeto del Estudio Informativo es elegir la soluci6n mas oportuna para el
acondicionamiento de la Autopista de Santo Domingo hasta San Crist6bal y la ampliaci6n
de la carretera Sanchez a cuatro carriles desde este punto hasta el acceso a Bani, cuya
rehabilitaci6n se incluye en otro componente de este proyecto. Entre las alternativas a
considerar debera incluirse necesariamente la explotaci6n mediante peaj !.
2.    La zona considerada para el Estudio comprendera el Distrito Nacional, San
Crist6bal y Peravia, teniendo en cuenta la influencia reciproca que puede tener la
prolongaci6n de la Autopista y los factores sociales, econ6micos, administrativos, tecnicos
y medioambientales del Distrito Nacional y de las provincias citadas. Para el Estudio se
tomara un horizonte de 20 aflos.
3.    En funci6n de los datos que resulten de este Estudio se plantearan las diversas
opciones de acondicionamiento y prolongaci6n de la actual Autopista, entre los puntos
indicados, con un nivel de definici6n que permita elegir la mas oportuna.
4.    La opci6n elegida se definira concretando su funcionalidad, localizaci6n,
accesibilidad, caracteristicas tecnicas, niveles de servicio, impacto ambiental, costes de
ejecuci6n, conservaci6n y explotaci6n, posible programa de construcci6n, etc., con detalle
suficiente para que sirva para informaci6n piublica y declaraci6n de utilidad puiblica.
B.    Contenido del Estudio Informativo
5.    El Estudio Informnativo contendra lo siguiente:
(a)   Datos B&sicos. Comprenderan los datos necesarios para definir el
problema, las diversas opciones que se planteen y la evaluaci6n de las
mismas. Sin que la relaci6n sea limitativa, tales datos incluiran:
(i)    Caracteristicas de las redes de carreteras y caminos vecinales
existentes y de pr6xima construcci6n entre Santo Domingo, San
Crist6bal y Bani que pueden alimentar y/o recibir el trafico de la
Autopista. Cartografia para soporte a escala no inferior a 1:25.000.



- 124 -
(ii)   Datos socioecon6micos de la capital y las dos provincias, asi como
de los correspondientes a otros territorios que pueden alimentar o
recibir en determinados puntos el trifico de la Autopista: poblaci6n
fij a y flotante; crecimiento de estas poblaciones en el ultimo
decenio; actividades econ6micas principales y crecimiento de las
mismas; producto interior bruto y renta per capita, y sus respectivos
crecimientos; motorizaci6n (vehiculos por habitante y porcentaje de
tipos de vehiculos) y su crecimiento; planes de politica territorial,
planes urbanisticos y planes de desarrollo agricola, industrial, o
similares y expectativas de su realizaci6n.
(iii)   Datos relativos al trafico actual en la Autopista y en las carreteras a
que pueda corresponder su prolongaci6n en el plazo de 20 anios
considerado: intensidades medias diarias y dispersiones de las
mismas; variaci6n de las intensidades ho-arias a lo largo del dia;
clasificaci6n del trafico y espectro de variaci6n de las cargas por eje
del trafico pesado; variaci6n de estos parametros en el ultimo
decenio; localizaci6n de los puntos congestionados y duraci6n de
las congestiones; accidentabilidad y sus variaciones en el iultimo
decenio.
(iv)   Accesibilidad a la Autopista y carreteras actuales y datos
orientativos de la demanda de acceso no controlado en los distintos
tramos de la Autopista y carreteras actuales.
(v)   Datos fisicos y medioambientales de la zona de la Autopista a
acondicionar y prolongar; caracteristicas geotecnicas generales de
los terrenos en los distintos tramos; flora y fauna en los distintos
tramos (especies habituales, especies a proteger, etc.); nornativas
medioambientales existentes a tener en cuenta; datos
meteorol6gicos.
(vi)   Datos patrimoniales que pudiera ser necesario tener en cuenta para
definir la prolongaci6n y cuya consideraci6n pueda ser determinante
de decisiones en esta fase del Estudio (Valores arqueol6gicos,
paisajisticos, terrenos y bienes afectados, servicios existentes, etc.).
(vii)  Normativas de disefio funcional y estructural a tener en
consideraci6n para la formulaci6n de los proyectos necesarios, su
construcci6n y su explotaci6n y conservaci6n.
(viii)  Datos de costes de ejecuci6n, mantenimiento o consumo de los
distintos componentes de la Autopista y demas factores que
intervienen en su utilizaci6n y que se utilicen para la valoraci6n y
evaluaci6n de las distintas opciones consideradas.



- 125 -
(b)   Andlisisy Prognosis. Se presentaran analisis, tanto de los datos recogidos
de informaci6n existente como de los que se hayan tomado expresamente
por ser inexistentes o por otros motivos. Se presentaran, asimismo, los
datos de sintesis aplicados al desarrollo del Estudio Infornativo. A partir
de estos datos basicos se estableceran, en lo que sea menester, las
prognosis de su evoluci6n a lo largo de los 20 afios considerados,
utilizando para dichas prognosis las metodologias oportunas en cada caso.
Los datos resultantes se presentaran agrupados con la sintesis de los datos
existentes analizados.
(c)   Elecci6n y Diseino B6sico de las Opciones Consideradas. La elecci6n y
disefio basico de las opciones a considerar se hara en funci6n de la sintesis
de datos basicos de los diversos factores que intervienen en el disenio de
cada una, asi como de los datos obtenidos con las prognosis que se hayan
establecido. En cada opci6n se consideraran las etapas necesarias de su
desarrollo a lo largo de 20 ahos considerados y se concretara el diseflo
basico y alcance de la primera etapa. Todas las opciones contemplaran la
realizaci6n de las obras necesarias, conservaci6n de la autopista y su
explotaci6n. Al menos una de las opciones que se consideren, contemplari
la incorporaci6n de la autopista y carretera existentes. En cada una de las
alternativas en que se contemple la posibilidad de explotaci6n por peaje se
diferenciaran dos opciones, detallando las variaciones (tanto en obras e
instalaciones, como en conservaci6n y explotaci6n) que correspondan a
cada una.
(d)   Definicion de las Opciones Consideradas. Se presentaran y analizaran las
opciones funcionales y tecnicas con la profundidad y extensi6n suficientes
para valorarlas de forma completa, evaluarlas, compararlas y
seleccionarlas. Todas las opciones han de ser viables en los aspectos
sociales, administrativos, econ6micos, tecnicos y medioambientales. Se
estableceran planos y esquemas que definan claramente las posiciones
relativas de las distintas opciones entre si y respecto a los puntos mas
importantes de la red actual, de los nucleos de poblaci6n o de puntos
singulares existentes.
(e)    Valoraci6n y Evaluaci6n de las Opciones Estudiadas. Se procedera, para
cada opci6n, a valorar los costes de realizaci6n de cada una de las partes de
la misma en cada una de las fases de su programaci6n. Estos costes
incluiran los de proyecto y ejecuci6n, la adquisici6n de terrenos necesarios,
las modificaciones de servicios existentes, las obras o indemnizaciones
necesarias para atender a las servidumbres actuales, las complementarias de
correcci6n o compensaci6n del impacto ambiental, etc. Se determinaran,
asimnismo, para cada opci6n, los costes de mantenimiento y conservaci6n
ordinaria y de conservaci6n peri6dica a lo largo de todo el periodo
considerado o, en las opciones para explotaci6n con peaje, si los plazos que
se precisen para la concesi6n fueran mayores de 20 afios, a lo largo de todo



- 126 -
el periodo de concesi6n. Estos costes incluiran los que se prevean para
cobro del peaje y, en su caso, para el funcionamiento de las instalaciones y
servicios que se prevea establecer. Tambien se procedera a deterninar
para cada una de las opciones y a lo largo del horizonte de 20 ainos o del
periodo considerado, los costes del usuario del conjunto del trafico del
corredor que se prevea ha de utilizar la Autopista en relaci6n con los costes
a que da lugar la circulaci6n por el resto de la red viaria del corredor. Para
los costes y beneficios que puedan valorarse monetariamente se
estableceran, para cada opci6n, los correspondientes indicadores de
rentabilidad, concretando justificadamente, la tasa de actualizaci6n y el
periodo considerado para el analisis. Para lo que no resulte posible
cuantificar monetariamente, se podran de manifiesto los demas costes
sociales a que dara lugar el establecimiento y funcionamiento de la
Autopista, como pueden ser los accidentes de circulaci6n, las limitaciones
de accesibilidad, las demoras producidas por la congesti6n, la
contaminaci6n ambiental, las lesiones al medio ambiente y al paisaje, etc.
La incidencia de todos estos items en la evaluaci6n se llevara a cabo por la
comparaci6n de las cuantias de cada uno de estos dafios que se producen
en las distintas opciones que se evaluian y en las que se producen en el resto
de la red viaria del corredor.
(f)    Comparaci6ny Selecci6n de Soluciones. Se seleccionara la opci6n
estudiada que se estime mas conveniente, habida cuenta de su evaluaci6n
en los aspectos sociales, administrativos, econ6micos, tecnicos y
medioambientales, sin omitir los que se refieren a la conservaci6n,
explotaci6n y cobro de peaje. La opci6n elegida sera objeto de una
descripci6n detallada en todo lo que se refiere a su funcionalidad,
localizaci6n, caracteristicas, nivel de servicio, impacto ambiental,
instalaciones complementarias y cobro de peaje, etc. La descripci6n
permitira asimismo, el establecimiento de una valoraci6n aproximada de las
adquisiciones, obras, instalaciones y otros trabajos necesarios en cada una
de las etapas de ejecuci6n que se contemplen.
(g)   Presupuestos Indicativos de la Opci6n Seleccionada. Se formularan
presupuestos indicativos de la opci6n o de las opciones alternativas (sin y
con peaje) seleccionadas que comprenderan para cada etapa:
(i)   Presupuesto de obras e instalaciones.
(ii)   Presupuestos de adquisici6n de terrenos, modificaciones de
servicios, indemnizaci6n de servidumbres, y correcci6n del impacto
ambiental.
(iii)  Presupuestos de conservaci6n ordinaria y conservaci6n peri6dica.
(iv)   Presupuestos de gastos de explotaci6n y cobro del peaje.



- 127 -
(v)   Presupuestos de gastos de Direcci6n y Administraci6n.
(h)   Estudio de Tarifas y Plazos de Concesi6n para la Financiaci6n Total
Mediante Peaje. Para la opci6n seleccionada con cobro de peaje se
establecera un estudio de la financiaci6n, que tenga en cuenta las
aportaciones de la Administraci6n y/o de terceros que se prevean (en
dinero, especies, avales, beneficios fiscales, etc.) y los ingresos por peaje y
por prestaciones de servicios a los usuarios. El Estudio comprendera el
cilculo de las tarifas de peaje que serian necesarias para la financiaci6n
mediante peaje de los costes de ejecuci6n no asumidos por la
Administraci6n o por terceros, costes financieros de la financiaci6n
mediante prestamos, costes de conservaci6n y costes de explotaci6n
(incluida Direcci6n y Administraci6n de la Concesionaria) y Capital y
beneficios del Capital si la Concesionaria fuese una Sociedad Privada.
Para este calculo se partiri de la prognosis de trafico incluida en los datos basicos
y de los presupuestos del apartado anterior y de un coste del dinero y esquema tarifario
que se propondrin razonadamente. Con base en ello, se calcularan los niveles tarifarios
que permitan, sin beneficio alguno para la concesionaria, el pago de todos los gastos
babidos (incluso financieros) y la amortizaci6n total de la inversi6n en plazos de 20 y de
30 afios.






- 129 -
ANNEX 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECrS
A.   Key Environmental Issues
1.    Most physical improvements under the project consist of the rehabilitation or
reconstruction of existing facilities and, therefore, direct environmental impacts on natural systems
and right-of-ways will be of less importance. However, there is evidence of increasing erosion,
slope stability and drainage impacts along existing roads caused by original improper design and
construction and the absence of environmentally sound maintenance practices. The project also
includes the construction of four short (20.3 km in total) by-passes around mid-sized towns.
2.    At present, SEOPC's capability to address environmental issues associated with roads and
other transport projects is very weak. The Department for the Control of Earth Excavation
(DCCT) in SEOPC was created in 1971 in order to prevent indiscriminate excavation and
destruction of the environment in borrow pits and construction material mines. Although the
institutional strengthening of DCCT has been included as a component of previous road sector
projects financed by the Bank, the DCCT has not yet developed the capabilities and technical
experience to address those and other environmental concerns in the sector. At present, the
DCCT is understaffed and without a clear role in the day to day functions within the SEOPC.
3.    There are then three principal categories of environmental concerns related to this project,
which include: (i) the environrental management of road rehabilitation and by-pass construction
works proposed under the project; (ii) the need to strengthen SEOPC's institutional capability to
manage environmental issues related to road and transport projects; and (iii) the need for adopting
an environmental manual or environmental guidelines for road construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance.
B.    Environmental Screening of Project Works
4.    An Environmental Assessment study on the works included in the proposed project was
carried out by a group of national and international consultants, financed under the ongoing loan
3350-DO. The final EA report was delivered before appraisal.
5.    Most of the area of influence of the roads concerned has been intervened for decades.
Principal land use activities include agriculture (sugar cane, rice, tobacco, and coffee) and cattle
ranching. Only one of the proposed works (one by-pass) will cross a small mangrove forest
patch. The principal characteristics of screened rehabilitation and by-passes works as well as
some physical baseline information are presented in Attachment 1 to this Annex.
6.    The proposed works will have little to moderate environmental impacts. Most
environmental concerns are associated with (i) the appropriate management of construction



- 130 -
wastes and construction activities (most road rehabilitation and reconstruction sub-projects); (ii)
the crossing of drainage and streams that eventually feed to mangrove and wetlands, and other
sensitive areas such as irrigation canals (one rehabilitation sub-project and one by-pass); and (iii)
right of way expansion in densely populated areas (one rehabilitation sub-project and one by-
pass). All these impacts have been identified and appropriate mitigation measures have been
proposed and incorporated in project design. For instance, clearing of mangrove trees for the
crossing of the Higuamo River was avoided with an innovative bridge design that would span
over the riverine trees. All mitigation measures in turn will be included in all bidding documents
and construction contracts as well as supervision activities. A summary matrix of environmental
impacts and mitigation measures for each sub-project are presented in Attachments 2 and 3 to this
Annex.
7.    All proposed works, particularly the proposed new by-passes, were screened for their
potential resettlement of population. Different alignments were considered and systematically
compared according to their technical, ecological and social merits. One of the proposed
alignments for the Bani by-pass, for instance, would have displaced over 200 poor urban families
in that city. Alternative routes are not technically available since the population opposes new road
construction between the city and the ocean front. In this manner, the selected alternative would
upgrade the existing accesses and build a second bridge to replace the existing one at the entrance
of the town. All other by-passes will not have any significant need for resettlement.
C.   Environmental Institutional Strengthening of SEOPC
8.    Although the Dominican Republic's environmental regulatory and institutional framework
is at present weak, it is clear that the SEOPC has an overall responsibility to address
environmental issues for public works and communications. The most expedite mechanism to
promote an adequate environmental management of sectorial projects would be to expand the
functions and staff within the DCCT into an Environmental Unit to manage environmental aspects
of road and transport projects in addition to the existing functions for the control of excavation of
construction materials.
9.    The functions of the Environmental Unit would include: (i) advising the SEOPC on
environmental concerns in the transport sector; (ii) incorporating environmental objectives into
feasibility and design studies; (iii) establishing environmental policies and procedures for road and
other transport projects; (iv) ensuring compliance with the Environmental Manual for Road
Design and Construction discussed below; (v) ensuring that all bidding documents and contracts
contain the appropriate environmental conditions; and (vi) monitoring environmental factors and
maintaining a database.
10.   An Action Plan for strengthening DCCT was agreed during appraisal, which includes: (i)
technical assistance to implement the proposed functions and procedures; (ii) special studies such
as an ecological sensitivity map of DR for road infrastructure; (iii) purchase of equipment,
including vehicles, computers, and geographical information systems; and (iv) training program
for the DCCT and other relevant departments within the DCCT. This Action Plan will
complement similar resources available under the IDB Rural Roads project.



- 131 -
D.   Environmental Manual for Road Design and Construction
11.   An Environmental Manual for Road Design and Construction has been prepared and will
be adopted by SEOPC. The purpose of this manual is to establish specific rules for minimizng
environmental damage during the construction and rehabilitation of roads. The manual defines
specific penalties for each type of environmental violation by individual employees as well as by
contracting companies. Examples of the topics that are included in the manual are: (i) applicable
environmental and natural resource legislation that contractors have to comply with during
construction and maintenance activities; (ii) explicit prohibitions and environmental behavior
guidelines for work crews, specially along sensitive areas; (iii) proper selection and management
of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction along rivers, and other sources of construction
materials; (iv) eventual rehabilitation of affected areas through soil replacement and revegetation;
(v) selection of camp sites, management of camp wastes and guidelines for camp dismantling and
abandonment; (vi) proper disposal of excavated earth and spoil material to avoid contaminating
streams or other unnecessary environmental damage; and (vii) proper disposal of wastes from
construction machinery and equipment.
12.   The EA report mentioned in para. 4 above also included the preparation of a Manual of
Functions and Procedures for the Environmental Unit. These functions and procedures of the
Environmental Unit as well as the Manual for Road Design and Construction will be officially
adopted by SEOPC before project effectiveness.



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
ATTACHMENT 1
Main Characteristics of Proposed Works and Area of Influence
Road Segment              Proposed Works             Soil Stability          Land Use
(length, kn)
Santo Domingo - San Isidro   Upgrading to 4 lanes     Good stability         Peri-urban areas,
(6.3)                                                              sugar cane and
pastures
Bajos de Haina - Refineria (1.7)  Upgrading to 4 lanes;  Existing slopes are stable  Urban area; no
drainage improvement and                          vegetation
embankment construction
Santiago - Navarrete   Additional lane and separator;  Stable conditions  Rice, sugar cane and
(20.3)           alignment modification                            tobacco
Boronga - Cevicos     Rehabilitation; widening I  Some erosion in specific  Sugar cane and
(39.1)           meter                       areas                  pineapple; occasional
pastures
Don Juan - Dona Maria    Widening, alignment        Stable slopes          Sugar cane and
(20.0)           rectification, new bridges and                    pineapple; cocoa and
drainage works                                    coffee
El Pintado - Higuey    Repaving                   Stable slopes; drainage    Sugar cane, pastures;
(28.4)                                       problems               shrubs
La Romana - Cruce El Pintado  Repaving and drainage    Stable slopes          Pastures and sugar
(35.4)           rehabilitation                                     cane
Esperanza - Mao       Widening up to 7.3 In;     Stable slopes          Rice, sugar cane,
(11.0)           pavement and drainage                             plantain
improvement
Acceso Refineria      Pavement improvement       Flat terrain           Industry
(3.2)           _
Rincon - Cruce El Pino  Widening to 6m; pavement    Stable; localized erosion   Plantains and
(10.4)           improvement; drainage       problems; deficient    manioc; natural
construction               surface drainage       shrubs
San Francisco - Tenares  Widening to 7.3m; pavement   Stability problems; high   Coffee, cocoa,
(13.0)           improvement and drainage    groundwater level      manioc, plantain,
construction                                      sugar cane and rice
By-pass San Pedro Macoris   New road and 270 m bridge    Stable area         Pastures; mangrove
(12.3)                                                              forest near the river
Higuamo
Monte Cristi Bridge    Widening of existing bridge    River embankment    Pastures; gallery
(0.1)                                       erosion                forest
Bani Bridge and Access   New bridge                 River embankment       Pastures; peri-urban
(3.8)                                       erosion                and urban areas



- 133 -
ANNEX 7
ArACHMENT 2
Environmental Issues of Proposed Works
Road Work           Expropriation      Affected infrastructure       Construction        Camp Location             Sensitive Areas    Construction Activities
Wastes
1. Santo Domingo -    12 has; 6 houses    275 m water pipes; 3.4 km of    152,000 m3                                                  Suspension of services; difficult
San Isidro                             phone lines; 3.8 km of electrical                                                              access to dwellings during
lines                                                                                         construction; accident risk during
______lines_________                         construction
2. Bajos de Haina -    4 has; 7 houses  4. 1 km of water pipes; 1. I km  6,500 m3                                                     Suspension of services; difficult
Refmeria                               of phones lines; S0 m electrical                                                               access to dwellings during
lines                                                                                         construction; accident risk during
construction
3. Santiago Navarrete  62 has; 34 houses   5.6 km of water pipes; 620 m of  357,000 m3                             Crossing of        Suspension of services; difficult
sewer pipes; 3.7 km of phone                                               irrigation canals    access to dwellings during
lines; 12.1 km of electrical lines                                                            construction; accident risk during
construction
4. Acceso Refmeria                                      _                                Industrial Area
5. Rincon - Cruce El                                                 17,500 m3           Pollution loads from
Pino                                                                                     camps; water and other
service demands from
communities during
construction
6. San Francisco -                                                   12,784 m3
Tenares
7. Boronga-Cevicos    Small strip parallel                           258,000 m3
to existing road
8. Don Juan - Dofia                                                  110,000 m3                                                       Difficult access to houses during
Maria                                                                                                              ________construction
9. El Pintado -                                                      105,000 m3          Pollution loads from
Higuey                                                                                   camps; water and other
service demands from
communities during
_________________    construction



-134 -
Attachment 2 (continued)
Environmental Issues of Proposed Works
Road Work         Expropriation   Affected Infrastructure    Construction        Camp Location          Sensitive Areas  Construction Activities
Wastes
10. La Romana -                                               65,000 m3          Pollution loads from
Cruce El Pintado                                                                 camps; water and other
service demands from
communities during
constuction
I I.Esperanza-Mao                                             39,000 m3          Pollution loads from   Crossing of
camps; water and other  irrigation canals
service demands from
communities during
construction
12. By-pass San                                               not available      Pollution loads from   Small mangrove
Pedro Macoris                                                                    camps; water and other  forest area on the
service demands from   banks of the
communities during     Higuamo River
construction_
13. Monte Cristi                                              not available      Pollution loads from   Sediments to
Bridge                                                                           camps; water and other   Yaque del Norte
service demands from   River
communities during
construction
14. Bani Bridge                                                not available     Pollution loads from   Sediments to
and accesses                                                                     camps; water and other   Bani River
service demands from
communities during
construction



- 135 -
ANNEX 7
ATTACHMENT 3
Environmental Mitigation Measures
Road Work*
Activities /Impacts            1 2    3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  Mitigation Measure
All construction activities    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   Application of environmental
guidelines; envirornmental
.                    _             _                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~supervision
Infrastructure Affectation     x   s   x                                                 x   Reposition of infrastructure
Borrow pit/construction wastes  x   x   x            x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   Borrow pit/disposal site
recuperation.
_ ___  x                                x            Disposal site outside sensitive area
Resettlement                   x   x   x                                                 x   Acquisition/Expropriation plan.
Realignment of by-passes; selection
of least-impact alternative
Specific pollution                           x   x   x             x        x   x   x   x   Camp site location and
loads/service                                                                                 environmental management;
demands from camps                           x  I   IIspecial site location
Suspension of services accident risk x   x   x   x x                                          Public information campaign.
during construction                 __        _                                               Safety program during construction
Crossing/sediment loads to sensitive         x   x                          x   x   x         Bridge design to avoid clearing;
areas irrigation, canals, wetlands)                                                           sediment traps during construction
* See attachment 2






- 137-
ANNEX S
DOMOICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Economic costs and benefits were quantified for the highway widening program,
the bridge and bypass construction program, the highway reconstruction program and the
highway resurfacing program. Economic tests were used early in the project preparation
stage to screen investments and select projects, and the SEOPC prepared formal feasibility
studies using methods and parameters agreed with the Bank. The investment evaluated
account for 80 percent of the base cost of the project. No costs or benefits have been
quantified for routine maintenance, road signalization, supervision, equipment acquisition,
institutional development, training and technical assistance activities representing 20
percent of the total base cost.
A..   Highway Road Widening Program
2.    The three highways under consideration -- Santo Domingo - San Isidro, Bajos de
Haina - Refineria, and Santiago - Navarrete,-already present average daily traffics of
16,500 to 9,000 vehicles. The highways are already congested and would become more
so if no actions are undertaken, severely increasing vehicle operating costs and time-
related costs. Table A8. 1 describes each project characteristics and costs.
Tables A8.1 - Widening Projects
Santo Domingo -  Bajos de Raina -  Santiago
San Isidro      Refineria      Navarrete
Existing Highway
- Length (km)                 6.3             1.7           20.3
- Width (m)                   7.0             7.3            7.3
- Roughness (IRI)             3.5             2.5            3.5
- Traffic (ADT)             16518           147717         9903
- Speeds (km/br)             45.0            50.0           55.0
Project
- Length (km)                 6.3             1.7           20.3
- Width (m)                  14.0            14.6           14.6
- Roughness (RI)              2.0             2.0            2.0
- Traffic (ADT)             16518           14777          9903
- Speeds (km/hr)             75.0            75.0           75.0
Costs (USS million)            4.0             1.1           15.9



- 138 -
3.    The traffic composition is around 77 percent for cars and pickups, 2 percent for
buses and 21 percent for trucks, and the normal traffic is assumed to grow at an annual
rate of around 3 percent varying slightly by vehicle class. For the widening alternative, it
has been assumed an additional generated traffic of 10 percent of the normal traffic. The
value of time for those traveling on private cars is assumed to be 9.0 Dominican pesos per
hour, representing 50 percent of the prorated value of a mix of passengers consisting of 70
percent, low income (6.7 RD$ per hour, the minimum wage), 20 percent, middle income
(33.3 RD$ per hour), and 10 percent, high income (66.6 RD$ per hour). For those
traveling on buses, the value of time is assumed to be 2.0 Dominican pesos per hour,
representing a conservative assumption of 30 percent of the minimum wage considering
that only work-related trips are considered in the analysis.
4.    Each project includes the widening followed by a maintenance strategy of routine
maintenance, 100 percent patching, and resealings when the damaged area reaches 50%.
The economic analysis compares the project with a base altemative that contains the same
maintenance strategy adopted for the project case. Therefore, the economic analysis is
measuring only the benefits due to the congestion reduction and due to the slower road
deterioration of the widened roads caused by the spread of the trucks loading damage over
a wider pavement surface. The widenings will more than double the road capacity and
reduce the roadside friction caused by pedestrians, vendors, animals, etc. Thus, higher
travel speeds are the mayor source of benefits. The costs of the maintenance operations
were assumed to be the same as those considered for the reconstruction program
(paragraph 13 of this Annex). The cost per kilometer of widening the three road varies
from US$ 640,000 for the Santo Domingo-San Isidro highway to US$ 780,000 for the
Santiago-Navarrete highway.
5.    The economic analysis of the highway-widening component was undertaken with
the application of the new version of the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards
Model (1995 HDM System) which incorporates capacity constraints into the analysis of
rehabilitation strategies. The HDM model performs a life-cycle analysis of the project and
the base alternative, computing the yearly road deterioration and the resulting road agency
and road user costs. The HDM model computes, for a given road and traffic, first the
free-flow speeds and them adjust these speeds to take into account the congestion level.
The resulting speeds are then used to compute the vehicle operating and travel time costs
that are also a function of the road roughness, the road geometry, and vehicle
characteristics. Table A8.2 below shows the user costs inputs used in the HDM analysis
and the resulting typical user costs obtained for a series of speeds and roughness levels.



- 139 -
Tables A8.2 - User Costs Inputs and Typical User Costs
Light  Medium Heavy Artic.
Car    Pickup    Bus    Truck   Truck  Truck Truck
Gross Vehicle Weight (t)               1.3      2.3     8.2      5.5    19.3  24.0  40.0
ESAI Factor per Vehicle               0.00     0.00    0.32     0.11     2.49  3.02   3.35
Number of Passengers                   2.7      0.0    30.0      0.0      0.0  0.0   0.0
Service Life (yr)                     10.0      6.4     6.6      7.6      9.1  10.0  10.0
Hours Driven per Year (hr)            440      778    1800    1467    1833  1818  1818
Km Driven per Year (kn)              29000   35000   62000   55000   55000 60000 60000
Annual Interest Rate (%)              15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4  15.4  15.4
New VehiclePrice($)                  12598   12820   26608   21385   37090 57954 68308
New Tire Price ($)                    40.2    46.6   119.7   102.0   304.2 304.2  304.2
Fuel ($/liter)                        0.24     0.24    0.25     0.25     0.25  0.25   0.25
Lubricants ($/liter)                  1.62     1.62     1.62    1.62     1.62  1.62   1.62
Maintenance Labor ($/hr)              1.28     1.28     1.44    1.44     1.57  1.57   1.57
Crew Cost ($/hr)                      0.00     0.00     1.09    0.93     0.93  1.09   1.09
Passenger Time ($/hr)                 0.73     0.00    0.16     0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00
Speed                   Roughness                Typical Unit Road User Costs ($ per vehicle-km)
(km1hr)                      (MD
80                            2.5    0.16      0.17    0.31     0.23     0.41  0.58   0.76
5.0    0.17     0.18     0.32    0.25     0.45  0.64   0.81
10.0    0.24     0.24    0.35     0.32     0.57  0.80   0.96
65                            2.5    0.17      0.17    0.32     0.23     0.41  0.58   0.76
5.0    0.18     0.18     0.33    0.25     0.45  0.64   0.81
10.0    0.25     0.24    0.38     0.33     0.58  0.80   0.97
50                            2.5    0.17      0.17    0.35     0.24     0.42  0.59   0.77
5.0    0.19     0.18     0.36    0.26     0.46  0.64   0.82
10.0    0.26     0.25     0.40    0.34     0.59  0.81   0.99
40                            2.5    0.19      0.18    0.37     0.25     0.44  0.61   0.80
5.0    0.20     0.19     0.38    0.28     0.48  0.67   0.85
10.0    0.27     0.26    0.41     0.36     0.61  0.84   1.04
6.     Table A8.3 below shows the results of the economic analysis in terms of net
present value (NPV) and economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for each project. It
shows the results of the sensitive analysis performed for each of the sub-projects to test
variations in the EIRRs in the event that costs increase by 20 percent, the benefits
decrease by 20 percent, and if the value of time is not considered in the analysis. It also
shows the traffic and project costs that will yield an EIRR of 12%, which shows that the
project benefits are being affected more due to the traffic uncertainty.



- 140 -
Tables A8.3 - Widening Program Economic Analysis Results (US$ million)
Santo Domingo -    Bajos de Haina -   Santiago -       Al
San Isidro         Refineria        Navarrete      Projects
Base Case
-EIRR                    26.5%              18.0%          18.9%         20.3%
-NPV                       5.63               0.56           8.61         14.80
Project Costs
+ 20 % Case
- EIRR                   23.4 %             15.8 %         16.4 %         17.5%
- NPV                      5.03               0.40           6.25         12.80
User Benefits
- 20 % Case
- EIRR                   22.8 %             15.3 %         15.9 %         17.2%
- NPV                      3.90               0.29           4.53          8.72
Value of Time
0
- EIRR                   19.7 %              8.6 %         16.3 %        16.5 %
- NPV                      2.80               -0.30          3.20          5.70
Traffic that         Estimated less     Estimated less   Estimated less
Yields
an EIRR of l2%              46 %               20 %            33%
Project Costs that   Estimated plus     Estimated plus  Estimated plus
Yield an EIRR of           109 %               72 %           73 %
12%
B.    Bridge Construction and Bypass Program
7.    The bridge construction and bypass program comprises the construction of
three new bridges, the widening of an existing one and two bypasses of cities with the
corresponding intersections. The program is divided into the following four projects: a)
La Romana bypass that includes the construction of a 152.8 m bridge over the Rio Dulce
river and the 8.0 km bypass, b) Bani project that includes the construction of a 150.0 m
bridge over the Bani river, c) San Pedro de Macoris bypass that includes the construction
of a 261.0 m bridge over the Higuamo river and the 12.3 km bypass, and d) Yaque del
Norte river actual bridge widening. The three bridges to be constructed are on heavily
trafficked urban areas, with average daily traffic over 2000 vehicles per day, and two of
the bridges (Higuamo and Bani) will replace bridges currently in danger of collapse. The
fourth bridge, involves only deck widening and it is on a road with medium traffic volume
of 800 vehicles per day. Table A8.5 describes each project characteristics and costs.



- 141 -
Tables A8.5- Bridge and Bypass Construction Projects
La Romana           Bani 1/        S. P. Marcons     Yaque del Norte
Existing Highways
- Length (kn)                      9.4               2.5               18.0                NA
- Roughness (RI)                   3.0               2.5                2.5                NA
- Traffic (ADT)                   4488              6270              10156                808
- Speeds (un/hr)                    30                19                 25                 60
Bypasses
- Length (km)                      8.0               3.7               12.3                NA
- Roughness (IRI)                  2.0               2.5                2.0                NA
- Traffic (ADT)                   2154              6270               3595                808
- Speeds (kmhr)                     75    35 (urban limit)               75                 75
Bridges
- Length (m)                     152.8    152 (Bani river)            261.0                NA
- Old width (m)                    5.1               9.5                NA                 4.9
- New width (m)                    8.4               8.4                8.4                8.4
Costs (US$ million)
- Bridges                        1.337             1.800              3.915              0.093
- Bypass                         3.924             0.205              4.060                NA
- Intersection                   0.339             0.019              0.540              0.002
- Total                          5.600             2.024              8.515              0.095
1/ Data concerning to bypass sections actually represent minor improvements to urban roads used by the traffic
accessing to or passing through the city of Bani.
NA-Not Applicable
8.     The benefits of this program are associated with savings in vehicle operating costs,
travel time costs, and future maintenance costs. For all projects, the economic evaluation
was done estimating the total transport costs with and without the project and the net
project benefits. The road agency costs, that includes the project costs and future
maintenance costs, were estimated based on engineering design. In each case, the HDM
model was used to estimate the unit vehicle operating and time costs per vehicle-km, that
are a function of the road geometry, road condition and travel speeds. These inputs were
measured for the current roads and estimated for the new alignments. These unit user
costs were then multiplied by the traffic data and road lengths to obtain the user costs that
are part, along with the agency costs, of the total transport costs.
9.     Two of the bridge projects, S.P. de Macoris and La Romana, include the
construction of city bypasses that would divert long distance traffic from existing
highways. Therefore, users selecting to use the new facilities will benefit in terms of
reduction on vehicle operating and travel time costs. The diversion rate is estimated to
vary between 35 and 50 percent, depending on the difference between the value of travel
costs across the existing and the proposed roads. As a consequence of the faster speeds
and reduced travel times brought about by the projects, a 25 percent increase in existing



- 142 -
traffic is assumed to be generated and the corresponding benefits were included in the
analysis. Due to the traffic diversion, the remaining traffic on the existing highways will be
much less congested and, therefore, the users who remain using the existing highways will
also benefit from the project. These additional project benefits were not included in the
analysis as well as the air pollution and accident reduction benefits, particularly associated
with traffic reduction in urban areas. The remaining two projects, the substitution of a
narrow and unsafe bridge structure over the Bani river and the widening of the Yaque del
Norte bridge, base their feasibility on possible reductions in vehicle operating and travel
time costs. Traffic diversion from other highways and traffic generation are not considered
in the analysis.
10.    With all these assumptions, the economic analysis yields EIRRs exceeding 12% for
all the proposed projects. Table A8.6 shows the results of the economic analysis in terms
of net present value and economical internal rate of return for each bridge/bypass and the
results of the sensitivity analysis performed for each of the sub-projects to test variations
in the EIRRs in the event that project costs increase by 20 percent, the benefits decrease
by 15 percent, and if the value of time is not included in the analysis. It also shows the
traffic and project costs that will yield an EIRR of 12%.
Tables A8.6 - Bridge and Bypass Program Economic Analysis Results (US$ minlions)
La Romana       Bani      S. P. Macors1    Yaque del Norte1    AD Projects
Base Case
- EIRR                    20.1%        15.8%           15.5%               29.1%         17.0 %
- NPV                       2.770       0.490            1.697               0.098        5.765
Project Costs
+ 20 % Case
- EIRR                     17.0%      13.40%           13.10%             22.70%        14.30%
- NPV                      1.950       0.200            0.593               0.076         3.089
User Benefits               17.2%       13.6%            13.3%               16.7%         14.1%
- 15 %Case                   1.710       0.200            0.584               0.031        2.225
- EIIRR
- NPV
Value of Time = 0
- EIRR                    16.2%        8.0%            15.5%               29.1%         13.7%
- NPV                      0.650      - 0.450           1.697               0.098         1.045
Traffic that Yields an  esfimated less    esiimated  estimated less 20  estimated less 65 %
EIRR of 12%                  43 %     less 25 %             %
Project Costs that        estimated    estimated    esfimated plus     estimated plus
YieldanEIRRof            plus 75 %    plus 35 %           30%                155 %
12%   of1 thne not incldedin he asecas
'Value of time not included in the base case



- 143 -
Highway Reconstruction and Resurfacing Programs
11.   The economic analysis of reconstructing/rehabilitating 169 km and resurfacing
627.9 km of paved roads was carried out using the HDM model that is designed to
recommend the solution which minimizes the net present value of the costs associated
with each solution including vehicle operating costs and investment and maintenance
costs. The higher the traffic level, the more rapid is the deterioration in road condition,
and the more likely is a higher-cost investment alternative.
12.   The sections to be rehabilitated or resurfaced were divided into homogeneous links
in terms of traffic levels and physical condition. For each link, traffic was projected based
on historical trends and expected population and production growth in the region. Using
engineering data and climatic conditions, as well as traffic characteristics and cost
parameters, the model simulated the operating conditions for each link and calculated total
vehicle operating costs. The following options were examined for each road: (a) carrying
out minimum maintenance at a cost of about US$ 360 per km; (b) carrying out minimum
maintenance plus all required patching, at a cost, that varies according to the thickness of
the road surface, of around US$ 9.00 per m2; (c) routine maintenance plus all patching
plus sealing every 5 years at a cost of US$ 1.02 per m2; (d) overlays every 10 years at a
cost estimated at around US$ 9.00 per m2, varying with the thickness of the road surface;
and (e) reconstruction, at a cost of US$ 16.03 per m2 when road roughness reaches a
predetermined level. The cost of rehabilitation and reconstruction was determined based
on a preliminary engineering study for each road link.
13.   Tables A8.7 and A8.8 below show the length, cost, average daily traffic (ADT),
roughness (IRI), and the results of the economic analysis in terms of net present value
(NPV) and economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for each link in the highway
reconstruction and resurfacing programs respectively. They also show the results of the
sensitive analysis performed for each of the sub-projects to test variations in the EIRRs in
the event that costs increase by 10 and 20 percent, or the benefits decrease by 10 and 20
percent.



- 144-
Table A8.7 - Reconstruction Program Economic Analysis Results (US$ million)
Capital Costs   User Benefits
Base Case   + 10%   + 20%  - 10%  - 20%
Length                Cost   NPV   EIRR   EIRR   EIRR   EIRR   EIRR
Project Description      (km)  ADT   IRI   (USS   (USS    (%)    (%)    (%)   (%)   (%)
______              Million) Million)
Boronga-Boya                      4.0  427   9.0       1.0     0.2  16.8%   15.1%  13.6%  15.0%, 13.1%
Boya-Sabana Grande de BoyA       13.2  410   7.5       2.4     0.3  15.1%   13.2%  11.4%  13.0%  10.8%
S.G. BoyA-Dofia Maria            21.9  427   9.0       3.5     0.7  16.4%/o  14.6%  13.0%  14.4%  12.4%
Doffa Maria-Cevicos               8.4  578   7.0       1.5     0.7 21.7%    19.7%  18.0%  19.5%  17.3%
Don Juan-Doffa Maria             20.0  518   7.0       4.5     0.8  15.6%   13.9%  12.4%  13.7%A  11.8%
C/El Pintado-Higuey              28.4  453   5.9       4.3      1.0  16.1%1 14.6%  13.3%  14.5%e  12.8%
La Romana-C/Guerrero             14.0  2930   4.1      2.0     6.2 37.6%   35.6%  33.8%  35.4%  33.1%
C/Guerreo-Guaymate                5.5  1453   5.7      0.8      1.3 31.5%   29.3%  27.5%  29.2%  26.7/o
Guaymate-C/El Pintado            15.9  1453   5.0      1.6     4.2 41.3%/  38.6%  36.3%  38.4%  35.4%
Acceso Refinerfa-Refineria        3.3 4756   4.5       1.1      0.5  82.4%   75.4%  72.6%  75.1%  70.4%
Esperanza-Mao                    11.0  654   5.5       2.0     0.2  14.1%   12.8%  11.6%  12.6%/  11.1%
Rinc6n-C/19-EI Pino              10.4  3535   5.4      2.0      6.2 46.0%1 43.1%  40.70/o 43.0%  39.8%
San Francisco-Tenares            13.0  3259   3.9      1.6     5.6 40.9%1 38.7%  36.8%  38.6%  36.1%
TOTAL                           169.0                 28.3    28.1  25.6%   23.5%  21.8%  23.4%  21.1%
Table A8.8 - Resurfacing Program Economic Analysis Results (US$ million)
Selected    Cost    NPV
Project Description        Length   ADT   MRI Years Since   New         (USS    (USS    EIRR
(an)                 Last Action  Action   million) million)   (%)
C/C 046 (C/Cabral)-Barahona              3.7  29811    2.2        12    OVAC    0.216    2.54    154.7
Salcedo-Tenares                          6.5   3259    3.9         6    RSAC    0.057    2.52    109.1
Moca-Salcedo                            15.0   3259    3.9          6    RSAC    0.131       5.84    108.8
C/C 048-C/C 046 (C/Cabral)               8.0   1425   2.2         12    OVAC    0.468    3.95    108.4
Santiago-Licey al Medio                  7.7   5133   4.4         12    OVAC    0.464       7.59    103.0
Cruceel 15-Canoa                        16.5   1425   2.3         12    OVAC    0.965    5.64    101.9
Canoa-C/C 048 (C/Palo Alto)              6.6   1425   2.2         12    OVAC    0.386    2.25        98.2
Licey al Medio-C/C 210-Moca              8.2   3259   4.4         12    OVAC    0.494    4.43        68.3
Moca-C/C 014                             1.7  2801    3.8         14    CMCA    0.059    0.42        50.4
C/C 004-C/C 003 (Boca Chica)             4.7   1234   2.8          8    RSAC    0.041    0.38        44.9
C/001 (La Vega)-Cutupui-Moca            19.8  2792    3.2          8    OVAC        1.193    6.94   42.6
Tenares-Joba Arriba                     32.5    739   4.4          5    RSAC    0.244    0.65        31.7
Joba Arriba-Gaspar Hermandez            11.6    739   4.0          5    RSAC    0.087    0.23        29.7
San Victor-El Caimito                   13.1    666   4.5         14    CMAC    0.422       0.58     26.3
C/C 014-San Victor                       6.4   1021   4.4         14    CMCA    0.207        0.3    26.0
C/ 018 (Mao)-Pueblo Nuevo                8.7    980   4.5         12    CMST    0.309    0.42        25.2
El Caimito-Sabaneta de Yasica           27.5    666   4.5         14    CMAC    0.887    0.93        24.0
Pueblo Nuevo-C/C 031 (Guayubin)         31.4    757   3.7         12    CMST    1.114        1.28    22.5
San Juan-Las Matas de Fatfan            31.2    762   4.5          7    CMAC    1.090    0.67        20.9
C/C 048-C/C 046 (C/Salinas)              9.0    425   4.5         14    CMAC    0.326    0.16        19.6
Santa Maria-C/C 045 Copey               10.3    396   5.2         12    CMST    0.366    0.22        19.4
C/C 045 Copey-Acc P. Salcedo             6.6    396   5.2         12    CMST    0.234    0.14        19.4



- 145 -
Selected    Cost    NPV
Project Description        Length   ADT   IRI Years Since   New        (USS    (USS    EIRR
(Ian)               Last Action  Action   million) million)  (%)
Galvan-Batey 2                         12.1   448   4.0            7    RSAC    0.102    0.05       19.2
Acc P. Salcedo-Puerto Manzanillo        2.1    321   5.2          12    CMST    0.075    0.04       18.4
20.6    448   4.0          7    RSAC    0.175    0.06       17.7
Villa Jaragua-Neyba-Galvan             15.5   424   4.0            7    RSAC    0.132    0.04       17.5
C/C 044 Cabral-C/ 518 (Salinas)        21.4    425   4.0           7    RSAC    0.182    0.06       17.3
C/C 001-C/Bayacanes-Jarabacoa          21.2    436   4.0          7    RSAC    0.180    0.06        16.9
Cruce el 15-C/C Padre Las Casas         19.8   1537   3.3         10    OVAC    1.107    0.49       16.6
C/C 231 Matas Sta Cruz-S. Maria        17.1    396   4.9          12    CMST    0.607    0.22       16.6
C/C031 (Guayubin)-C/C231 MataS.C.      12.0   396   4.9           12    CMST    0.426    0.15       16.6
C/C Padre Las Casas-San Juan           44.2   1537   3.2          10    OVAC    2.472    0.97       16.1
La Descubierta- Villa Jaragua          29.1    419   3.0           7    RSAC    0.247    0.06       16.1
Hato Mayor-El Valle-Sabana de la Mar   41.8    419   4.0           5    DTST    0.611    0.23       15.7
C/C 518 (C/Salinas)-Duverg6            18.7   405   4.0            7    RSAC    0.159    0.03       15.6
Boca Cach6n-La Descubierta             16.2   398   4.0            7    RSAC    0.138    0.03       15.5
Jimani-Boca Cach6n                      7.8   398   4.0            7    RSAC    0.066    0.01       15.5
Duverg&Jinani                          41.6   373   4.0            7    RSAC    0.354    0.02       13.11
TOTAL                                 627.9                                      16.793    50.6    36.6
DTST = Douible Asphalt Treatment over Asphalt Treatment RSirface
RSAC = Resealing over Asphalt Connrete Riirfice
(xMST = 25 mm of Asphalt Cold Mix over Asphalt Treatment Iqurface
C(MAC = 25 mm of Asphalt C(nld Mix over Asphalt Concrete Sutrface
OVAC( = 40 mm of Asphalt Concrete Overlay over Asphalt Concrete Su9rface
Risk Analysis
14.    An analysis performed to test the effects (risks) of postponing the widening and
reconstruction investments shows that for all projects the net benefits are reduced if
investments are postponed. Specifically, were investments postponed by one or two
years, the Net Present Value for each project would decrease on average by 6 percent and
12 percent, respectively, though NPVs would remain greater than zero. This analysis
shows that, from an economic perspective, the proposed sub-projects should be
undertaken in earnest. Minor delays, however, would not affect the economic worthiness
of the sub-projects.
15.    An analysis performed to test the effects (risks) of not implementing an optimal
maintenance policy after completion of the various rehabilitation and widening works,
shows that benefits will decrease slightly if a proper maintenance program (including
routine maintenance, patching and resealing) were not timely implemented. If only a
limited routine maintenance is applied, the analysis shows that the NPV of sub-projects
would decrease on average by 9 percent, though the economic rate of return remains
greater than 12 percent for all sub-projects. The results reflect economic benefits for the



- 146 -
proposed sub-projects that are sustained even in light of sub-optimal maintenance policies.
This is always the case for roads in good condition (as the ones being rehabilitated under
the project) because vehicle operating costs vary in relation to road roughness progression
and road roughness increases rapidly only once the road has deteriorated below a fair
condition. Therefore, a sub-optimal maintenance policy affects economic benefits only
marginally for roads in good condition.
Conclusions
16.   All sub-projects yield a rate of return of 12% and above including the events
considered in the sensitivity analysis that increases the project costs or reduces the user
benefits, except in the case of the reconstruction of the roads Boya - Sabana Grande, Don
Juan-Dofia Maria, and Esperanza Mao, for which the EIRR falls to about 1 1.5%. We find this
figure acceptable and, therefore, the sub-projects have been retained in the respective
programs. The EIRR of the Bajos de Haina - Refineria widening and the Bani bridge are 8.6%
and 8.0% in the case that the value of time is not included in the analysis, indicating that for
these projects most of the benefits are derived from time savings. Due to the conservative
value of time being adopted in the analysis and due to the fact that the purpose of these
projects is to reduce congestion, we find the feasibility of these projects acceptable. Table
A8.9 below summarizes the results of the economic analyses by project components. The
weighted average rate of return for the evaluated investments is 24.5%.
Table A8.9 - Summary of Economic Evaluation by Project Component
NPV          EIRR
Cost         (@12%)
US$ million    US$ million
Fighway Widening                              $21.0          $14.8       20.3%
Bridge/Bypass Construction                    $16.3            5.8       17.0%
Highway Reconstruction                        $28.3          $28.1       25.6%
Highway Resurfacing                            $16.8         $50.6       36.6%
Total                                         $82.4          $99.3       24.5%
17.   The above analyses partly underestimate the true economic benefits of the highway
programs because they do not fully quantify the additional benefits to be derived from
increased tourism activity or the environmental benefits from smoother vehicle operation
and the avoidance of congested traffic conditions with frequent stop-and-go situations.



- 147-
ANNEX 9
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
HIGHWAY NATIONAL PROJECT
ORGANZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION TEAM
1.    The SEOPC will have overall responsibility for project coordination and
implementation. Actual implementation will be assigned to the General Coordinator,
assisted by a Project Coordination Team (PCT) and the cooperation of DARE, the four
Road Directorates (DGC, DGM, DGSFO and DGPP), DRS and DCCT as has been the
practice in the ongoing Bank-financed project (FMRP) The organizational structure of the
PCT is shown in the attached Chart. The PCT will enjoy ample technical, administrative
and financial autonomy. The project will finance five consultants to fill the external
positions in the PCT: the head and four professionals; and a secretary (bilingual and
computer literate). The rest of the engaged staff will be paid from local counterpart funds.
2.    Scope and Functions of the Team. The scope and functions of the PCT will be
composed of but not limited to the following:
(a)   carrying out the day-to-day administrative management of the project,
including drafting, for the General Coordinator or Secretary's of State
signature, all communications on the project between the SEOPC and
contractors, suppliers and consultants, and the Bank;
(b)   reviewing engineering studies and maintenance;
(c)   conducting all complementary economic evaluation of proposed sub-
projects, new or with additional cost of more than 25% of the project cost
estimate;
(d)   supervising contractor's and consultant's work, including progress review
and monitoring;
(e)   assisting with the procurement of civil works, office equipment and
supplies and vehicles under the project;
(f)   drafting TORs, letters of invitation and bidding documents and assisting
with the evaluation of consultant proposals and drafting of consultants
suppliers and contractor's contracts;
(g)   assisting, at the request of the General Coordinator in negotiating
contracts;
(h)   keeping accounts for expenditures, credit and loan disbursements;
(i)   preparing withdrawal applications for disbursements;



- 148 -
(j)   preparing the basic information necessary for the annual technical and
financial audits;
(k)   monitoring and reporting implementation of the project components;
(1)   evaluating and reporting all project activities, including procurement and
environmental aspects in the project areas, and;
(m)   preparing progress reports to be submitted to the Bank by the General
Coordinator.
3.    Staffing (See attached Staff Organizational Chart). The PCT will be composed of:
Consultants
- A Project Team Coordinator: a qualified local staff, or a foreign or national
expert, with at least 10 years of experience as a civil engineer (48 months);
- Two Highway Engineers (Construction) for 48 months;
-  A Highway Engineer (Maintenance) for 48 months;
- A procurement specialist and accountant for 48 months; y
- A secretary for 48 months (bilingual and computer literate)
Counterpart Staff
- One local, qualified counterpart for each of the above experts.
Support Staff
- An accountant, one typist/filing clerk, two drivers and one cleaner.
4.    Reporting Responsibilities. All staff of the PCT will report directly to the Team
Coordinator who would in turn report to the Project Coordinator.
5.    Support from the SEOPC. The Project General Coordinator will be the Advisor
to the State Secretary. The DGM will support the team and will be responsible for
maintenance planning, execution and control. The Pavement Department in the DGPP
will assess the team in all works related to pavements. DARE will be in charge of
financing and accounting control and the timely submission of the audit reports. The DRS
will assess and supervise all bidding documents and procedures and related
correspondence.



- 149-
Budget
Staff                                Months    Salary/Mo.         Cost
________                                     ~~~~~~    ~    ~~~~~~~~(US$)  (U5$)
1        General Coordinator                     48      (SEOPC)       (SEOPC)
1        Team Coordinator                        48             5,600         268,800
2        Highway Engineer (Construction)         48             3,500         336,000
1        Highway Engineer (Maintenance)          48             3,500         168,000
1        Accountant/Procurement Specialist       48             3,500         168,000
1        Secretary                               48             1,250          60,000
Total                                                              1,000,800
Vehicles and Office Equipment            Units           Cost              Total
.___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _   (US$)  (US$)
All-terrain vehicle                        2                 30,000            60,000
Pick-ups                                   3                 25,000            75,000
Photocopy machine                          1                  4,000             4,000
Fax machine                                1                   1,000            1,000
Computer 486                               6                  3,500            21,000
Printer                                    2                  1,500             3,000
Laser printer                              1                  2,500             2,500
Desks/chairs                               6                  1,500             9,000
Air conditioner                            6                  2,000            12,000
jMiscellaneous                                                   --            75,000
Total                                                                         262,500
Counterpart (SEOPC)          Months  Compensation/           Total ($DR)
Mo. ($DR)
2      Highway Engineer (DGSFO)        48              7,500                  720,000
1      Highway Engineer (DGM)          48              7,500                  360,000
1      Accountant (DARE)               48              7,500                  360,000
1     Highway Engineers (DP-DGPP)      48              7,500                  360,000
1      Assistant Engineer (DP-DGGP)    48              5,500                  264,000
1      Documents assistant Officer     36              5,500                  198,000
1      Documents Officer (DRS)         36              7,500                  270,000
3      Support Staff                   48              2,000                  288,000
2      Support Staff                   36              2,000                  144,000
2      Drivers                         48              1,500                  144,000
1      Clerk                           48              1,000                   48,000
Total                                                                        3,156,000
(US$ equivalent: 250,870)



Staff Organization Chart for the Project Coordination Team
Highway Engineer
(DGSF-*SEOPC)
g   General Coordinator                                                         Highw           -
- _X(DGM-SEOPC) F
Ft  Dr~ivers   . _             Secretary   .tf                          Project Team  Coordinator   9                                               Pavement Specialist  i
(Consultant)                                                       (DP-DGPP-SEOPC)
Cleaner _                                                                                                                                        f        Accountant                             -
Document Officers
(DRS-SEOPC)
Y                                                                                                 sP Y.Y FXY o   F .lF FXFX<Y.::.v: ........................... F:8,yto F FXY:X.<.r,r,. : . . . . . .. .. . .
AccountanV                 F           Highway Engineer               h           Highway Engineer                            Highway Engineer
Procurement Specialist             F              Construction                               Construction                               Maintenance
Northen and Westem  Regions F   Central and Eastern Regions F.
FyAYY:YS.vF>X,' X                                           ..88.8 4 8 .4 .4 .. ....w........a...VS   'X.> '.> V_."V:=== :FF.'FFF8.YY .......xV 8 .f C V.8.X'8.'*> .YXFnKXY:XsgY2..............  SF ..   _ x'F
Technical A ssistance in  0             9      Work Supk SuperviWork Su  ervision                                      ;          Technical Assistance in  z
Accounting and Auditing g    g                   by by Consultansby Consultants                                         F        Maintenance Management g
_________ _ _.r.4.48'84'-r.,88.8F.8      $MYXYR:8.XO                          :       ooos.nc.yF.fr.'t~88                        _:.:.*o'w,.FF.



- 151 -
ANEXO 10
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA AUDITORIA TCNiCA ( DE INGENIERiA) ANUAL
1.    Objetivo del Examen de Ingenieria y Ambiental. El objetivo sera conocer, con
base en la opini6n de los auditores-ingenieros: (i) la calidad de la ejecuci6n fisica del
proyecto y el logro de las metas previstas por el Gobierno y el Banco; (ii) el impacto de
los procesos, las obras y los contratos en las tres areas criticas: tecnica, de adquisiciones y
de gesti6n y evaluaci6n de resultados (Apendice 1 de este Anexo); y (iii) el
comportamiento e impacto ambiental en la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
2.    Los siguientes sub-objetivos servirian de apoyo a los anteriores: (i) considerar
diversas alternativas para alcanzar las metas; (ii) aglutinar los datos y pron6sticos
disponibles, dentro del abanico de variables e indicadores aplicables al problema; (iii)
fomentar la adopci6n de soluciones progresivas y de mayor alcance, conservando en todo
momento una idea de factibilidad, eliminando o modificando las alternativas no viables
(t6cnica, econ6mica o ambientalmente) tan pronto como se conozcan su inconveniencia o
costos excesivos; (iv) valorar y considerar los costos y beneficios indirectos, ambientales,
sociales, etc. tanto durante la fase de construcci6n, como durante la explotaci6n y el
mantenimiento; programar oportunamente las diferentes fases de construcci6n y canalizar
y programar la financiaci6n en el tiempo; y (v) promover un marco institucional que
permita, en todos los aspectos, su desarrollo y ejecuci6n, con enfasis en los estamentos
con participaci6n piiblica y de los sectores implicados.
3.    Alcance y Muestra del Trabajo.  El trabajo de auditoria tecnica consistira en
una evaluaci6n "ex-post" de las actividades realizadas en la ejecuci6n del Proyecto. El
programa de trabajo contendra tres componentes: (i) trabajo fundamentalmente de campo;
(ii) examen documentario referido, basicamente, a los informes trimestrales de ejecuci6n
del proyecto; y (iii) seguimiento de las medidas convenidas peri6dicamente con el Banco
Mundial.
(a)   El trabajo de campo se realizara de acuerdo con el criterio de los
ingenieros examinadores; pero deberi incluir en todo caso: (i) una muestra
representativa de al menos 15% de los contratos de obras en ejecuci6n y/o
terminados durante el trimestre; (ii) el cumplimiento con las guias de
adquisiciones de ADP seguidas por las unidades ejecutoras para adjudicar
no menos del 85% de los contratos de obras y de consultoria; y (iii) el
examen de los procesos de obras y contratos en las areas tecnica, de
adquisiciones y de evaluaci6n de resultados (Apendice 2 de este Anexo).
(b)   El examen de los informes trimestrales, cuyo contenido e indicadores de
supervisi6n fueron convenidos durante las negociaciones del Proyecto e
incorporados como clausulas en el respectivo Convenio de Prestamo: (i)



- 152-
relaci6n actualizada de sub-proyectos elegibles; (ii) informaci6n sobre el
progreso alcanzado con base en los indicadores de implementaci6n
convenidos y la programaci6n de desembolsos; (iii) informaci6n sobre el
progreso de los programas de mantenimniento; (iv) efectos causados en el
medio ambiente durante el trimestre sujeto a examen; y (v) programa
detallado de trabajo y acciones a realizar en los trimestres siguientes.
El inforne de auditoria tecnica de Junio comprendera el examen de los dos primeros
trimestres del afio. El informe anual abarcara los dos uiltimos semestres y comentarios
sobre la ejecuci6n consolidada de todo el ejercicio econ6mico.
(c)   Seguimiento de las medidas a adoptar resultantes de las reuniones
peri6dicas con funcionarios del Banco. Estas medidas pueden referirse a:
(i) el progreso fisico del Programa de Mantenirniento; (ii) los desembolsos
efectivos para mantenimiento de carreteras; (iii) el cumplimiento del
presupuesto anual de mantenimiento convenido con el Banco; (iv) la
gesti6n del Equipo de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto (ECP); (v) el progreso
alcanzado en asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n: (vi) los resultados de la
supervisi6n del impacto medio ambiental ejecutada por la Direcci6n de
Control de la Corteza terrestre (DCCT) y otros aspectos.
4.    Selecci6n de la Firma. La firma sera seleccionada de acuerdo con el sistema de
"1ista breve" con un minimo de tres y un maximo de seis firmas consultoras de ingenieria,
de probada integridad, experiencia y reputaci6n en mantenimiento y construcci6n de
carreteras. El Banco debera dar su aceptaci6n a dicha lista breve.
5.    Normas de Trabajo. El trabajo se efectuara de acuerdo con normas de ingenieria
internacionalmente aceptadas, las recomendadas por el Colegio Dominicano de
Ingenieros, Arquitectos y Agrimensores (CODIA), las Especificaciones Generales para la
Construcci6n de Carreteras de la SEOPC y las "Normas de Auditoria Profesional
Internacionalmente Aceptadas" aplicadas a trabajos de ingenieria. (Apendice 1).
6.    Informes a Presentar.
(a)   Opini6n de los auditores-ingenieros sobre la razonabilidad de la ejecuci6n
fisico-ambiental y operativa del proyecto durante y al final del ejercicio.
(b)   Informaci6n suplementaria de ingenieria y ambiental referente a la
adecuaci6n y correcci6n de los indicadores de eficiencia administrativa y de
mantenimiento, asi como de metas fisicas y mantenimiento peri6dico
calculados por la administraci6n tecnica del proyecto.
(c)   Razonabilidad de la evaluaci6n del impacto ambiental en los ecosistemas
del programa de mantenimiento y principales actividades ejecutadas.



- 153 -
(d)   Excesos desproporcionados en los costos de los subproyectos finalizados
durante el periodo en comparaci6n con los costos originales.
(e)   Adecuaci6n de los servicios y calidad del personal de la Unidad Ejecutora
del Proyecto.
(f)    El informe trimestral consolidado al 31 de diciembre con base a los
informes trimestrales emitidos durante el anio (ver Alcance y Muestra del
Trabajo)
(g)   La secci6n de la Carta Gerencial destinada a comentarios de tipo tecnico,
de ingenieria y ambiental.
7.    Periodicidad de los Informes. Se requerira un informe anual de auditoria tecnica
integrada del Proyecto. El Banco podra requerir que dicho informe se emita por periodos
mis breves (por ejemplo, semestrales), en cuyo caso el ultimo informe, al 31 de diciembre
de cada ejercicio econ6mico, debera incluir el resumen de la ejecuci6n fisico-operativa del
Proyecto durante el afio.
8.    Simultaneidad de Informes. Se recomienda que la firma de ingenieria a cargo
del examen se mantenga en contacto y, si fuese necesario, planifique su trabajo con la
firma de auditoria financiero-administrativo de cumplimiento legal que haya sido aprobada
para ia realizaci6n de la auditoria anual. Esta firma deberi a su vez establecer contacto y
planificar su trabajo en concordancia con dicha firma de auditores, sobre todo en aquellos
sectores del trabajo que, por su naturaleza, resulte conveniente que se realicen de manera
conjunta.



- 154-
Apendice 1
A). Normas de Auditoria Profesional Internacionalmente Aceptadas
(Adaptaci6n a Exaimenes Tcnicos de Ingenieria)
1.    Los ingenieros-auditores y verificadores, asi como los expertos ambientalistas de la
auditoria tecnica, seran legal y profesionalmente competentes para efectuar dicho examen
o auditoria tecnica.
2.    El "equipo de ingenieros-auditores" actuara de manera integra, honesta, justa,
correcta e independiente a la hora de enfocar el examen de ingenieria.
3.    El examen de ingenieria sera debidamente planificado antes de comenzar el trabajo.
4.    En el proceso de preparaci6n y ejecuci6n posterior del examen tecnico, los
ingenieros examinadores evaluaran los controles intemos de caracter tecnico y gerencial
ejercidos por la unidad ejecutora del proyecto.
5.    Los ingenieros-auditores sera.n conscientes de los "riesgos implicitos en el examen
tecnico" asociados con la entidad ejecutora y la administraci6n del proyecto: riesgos de
control tecnico, de detecci6n e inherente.
6.    Los procedirnientos de auditoria a utilizar para obtener las "pruebas tecnicas"
consistiran, en terminos generales, en inspeccionesy observaciones, complementadas con
averiguaciones y, cuando se justifique, confirmacionesy procedimientos analiticos y
otras pruebas a efectuar sobre la informaci6n tecnica.
7.    Los auditores-ingenieros revisaran y evaluaran las conclusiones derivadas de las
pruebas tecnicas efectuadas como base para la expresi6n de su opini6n sobre la
razonabilidad de la informacion de tipo operacional, las conclusiones de tipo Mcnico
alcanzadas y la ejecuci6nfisica (incluyendo la ambiental) delproyecto y el
cumplimiento, por parte del 6rgano ejecutor, con las leyes y reglamentos respectivos.
8.    Siempre que sea necesario utilizar usar personal tecnico auxiliar para ciertos
aspectos del examen, dicho personal estara debidamente dirigido y supervisado.
9.    Los auditores-ingenieros documentaran todos los asuntos que sean importantes en
el proceso de obtenci6n de las pruebas tecnicas. El examen se hari de acuerdo con
nornas de ingenieria apropiadas -aceptadas nacional e internacionalmente-y en
cumplimiento con principios basicos y normas profesionales. Los papeles de trabajo,
preparados por los auditores-ingenieros en el proceso de planificaci6n y ejecuci6n del
examen, dejarin constancia de la planificaci6n, procedimientos tecnicos utilizados y
conclusiones extraidos de las pruebas fecnicas obtenidas.
10.   Los "informes de examen y revisi6n tecnica" emitidos por los auditores-ingenieros
contendrin: (i) una clara expresi6n de opini6n sobre la razonabilidad de la informaci6n de
caracter operativo producida por la entidad ejecutora y sobre la ejecuci6nfisica del



- 155 -
proyecto, asi como una declaraci6n, clara y sin ambages, sobre las "conclusiones tecnicas"
alcanzadas con base en las respectivas pruebas y trabajo de auditoria efectuada; (ii) una
opini6n sobre el grado de cumplimiento, por la administraci6n del ente y oficinas
ejecutoras del proyecto, con la legislaci6n, reglamentos y especificaciones tecnicas y las
de protecci6n medio-ambiental, asi como con las clausulas de caracter t6cnico y operativo
de los convenios de prestamo respectivos.
B) Procedimientos de Auditoria de Ingenieria
11.   Los auditores-ingenieros estableceran los mecanismos de auditoria multidisciplinar
a recaer sobre los contratos de reforma, rehabilitaci6n, mantenimiento (ya sea rutinario,
peri6dico, o integral), seguridad vial y, en su caso, privatizaci6n, licitados, formalizados,
en ejecuci6n o terminados en el periodo del informe, asi como sobre aquellos trabajos que
formen parte o indiquen el cumplimiento de los compromnisos del Convenio de Prestamo.
Se tendran en cuenta los siguientes factores:
(a)   Metodologia y procedimientos general de examen. Metodos existentes,
adaptaci6n futura y disenio basico adoptados. Normativa y
recomendaciones de los organismos nacionales e internacionales utilizadas,
asi como otros datos tomados de la buena practica en la industria de la
construcci6n. Metodologia de toma de datos de campo (transectos, zonas
testigo y trabajos representativos), asi como de extrapolaci6n e
identificaci6n de tramos o trabajos homogeneos, documentaci6n analizada
y papeles de trabajo preparados.
(b)   Preparacion y ejecuci6n de los unidades de obra y servicios de
mantenimiento. Calidad y adecuaci6n de los inventarios, planificaci6n,
presupuestos, expedientes y documentaci6n base para la contrataci6n.
Procedencia de los materiales, equipos y recursos, tanto desde el punto de
vista de su idoneidad tecnica como del analisis comparativo de sus costos y
rendirnientos. Cumplimiento de las normas de adquisiciones
("procurement") del Banco Mundial. Metodos de ejecuci6n propuestos.
Examen de las estructuras, organizaci6n, control intemo, capacitaci6n y
funcionamiento de las entidades y empresas implicadas o precalificadas.
Planes de control de calidad. Niveles de servicio obtenido.
(c)   Impacto ambiental de las actuaciones. Unidades de obra, extracci6n y
dep6sito de materiales, fabricaci6n de agregados y aglomerados, vertidos,
instalaciones o desvios provisionales, accidentes. Se tendrAn en cuenta los
procedimientos de Evaluaci6n de Impacto (EIA), con especial enfasis en la
evaluaci6n tematica (paisaje, geomorfologia, regulaci6n hidrica, suelos,
hidrologia, vegetaci6n, fauna, usuarios, accesibilidad, aspectos
socioecon6micos), la identificaci6n de impactos y sus relaciones causa-
efecto, y la propuesta de introducci6n de las medidas preventivas,
correctoras y compensatorias correspondientes. Cumplimiento de los



- 156 -
planes de vigilancia y control ambiental. Evaluaci6n del equipo de
ambientalistas.
(d)   Seguimiento de los contratos: Precalificaci6n, formalizaci6n, sanciones,
aparici6n de incidencias, retrasos, incremento de cantidades y costos
unitarios, modificaci6n de las soluciones tecnicas o cambio de los sistemas
de ejecuci6n respecto de los previstos y su repercusi6n en el costo final,
reducciones o ampliaciones del ambito fisico de intervenci6n.
Cumplimiento de la ejecuci6n fisica y de los Presupuestos y Programas de
Trabajo. Documentaci6n de control y seguimiento. Proceso de cubicaci6n
y pago. Prognosis y escenario de finalizaci6n de aquellos que se hallen en
ejecuci6n. Seguridad e Higiene en el trabajo. Evaluaci6n de la calidad
final. Evaluaci6n de los equipos de direcci6n y supervisi6n de los
contratos. Verificaci6n de la compatibilidad. Desarrollo institucional.
(e)   Estandarizacio'n de resultados y elaboraci6n de indices comparativos.
Establecimiento de indicadores econ6micos (costos de administraci6n o
supervisi6n, costos por kil6metro de cada actividad, normas de cantidad,
totalizaci6n de los costos de mantenimiento para cada tipo de red,
rentabilidad obtenida, comparaci6n entre contratos de contingencias
(siniestralidad, retrasos de obras, en servicios y en direcci6n o control de
calidad, incrementos en costos, aparici6n de imprevistos, negociaci6n de
nuevos precios, comparaci6n entre contratos, impacto ambiental neto,
demoras en los pagos), de funcionalidad (mejoras de accesibilidad,
generaci6n de transito, condici6n de la red, costos de usuario, seguridad
vial) y estadisticas (km. o nuimero de unidades tratadas, construidas o en
ejecuci6n -- y comparaci6n con las previstas -- para los diferentes contratos
y programas, longitudes y porcentajes de red incluidas en los mismos,
inversiones correspondientes y relaci6n con los niveles de servicio
obtenidos).
(f)   Informe de conclusiones sobre cumplimiento de objetivos, anomalias o
carencias de todo tipo y ambito observadas y propuestas prevenfivas o
correctoras a considerar. Comentarios del equipo auditor sobre el
proceso comparativo con otros en que haya intervenido. Perfiles
caracteristicos del pais. Recomendaciones y estandares a utilizar en el
futuro.
(g)   Se presentarian los anexos e informacion complementaria que el equipo
auditor estime oportuno.
(h)   Se discutiran con la Direcci6n del SEOPC y el Proyecto las principales
conclusiones emergentes del trabajo realizado antes de su incorporaci6n al
Informe de Auditoria Global.



- 157 -
Apendice 2
Examen de los Procesos de Obras y Contratos
En el area fecnica:
(a) Revisar los trabajos realizados por los contratistas seguin calendarios y
especificaciones tecnicas contractuales, incluyendo la verificaci6n, en el
terreno, de los informes presentados de acuerdo a los respectivos terminos de
referencia establecidos en los expedientes tecnicos.
(b) Evaluar la calidad de la inspecci6n y seguimiento realizados por la supervisi6n
contratada por la SEOPC, en relaci6n al cumplimiento de los plazos
contractuales, uso de mano de obra local y control de costos y calidad de las
obras, incluyendo el analisis y monitoreo de las 6rdenes de cambio y reclamos
presentados por los contratistas.
(c) Evaluar la calidad y adecuaci6n de los expedientes tecnicos empleados para la
contrataci6n de las obras, la validez de las evaluaciones y metodos de
construcci6n propuestos y la utilidad de la documentaci6n aportada por el
ingeniero proyectista.
(d) Verificar el cumplimiento de las guias ambientales, tanto en lo que se refiere al
disefno de las obras y a su ejecuci6n, como a los planes de gesti6n o mitigaci6n
ambiental.
(e) Examinar los sistemas de valorizaci6n y liquidaci6n de contratos, verificando
que los pagos a los contratistas y consultores correspondan a cantidades de
obras o servicios realmente ejecutados, que se encuentren adecuadamente
documentados y que correspondan al monto total pactado en los respectivos
contratos.
2.    En el area de adquisiciones:
(a)   Verificar que, en las convocatorias para la contrataci6n de estudios,
supervisi6n, obras y adquisici6n de bienes, se haya cumplido con las
normas establecidas por el ADP.
(b)   Verificar que no exista incompatibilidad entre las firmas supervisoras,
consultoras, ejecutoras de estudios y constructoras contratadas para la
ejecuci6n de obras y la adecuaci6n de los registros de contratistas y
consultores empleados por la SEOPC.
(c)    Comparar los costos de los contratos con los costos finales de la obra, y
analizar la variaciones entre los costos promedio para obras similares en las
distintas regiones, en funci6n de los diversos procedimientos de
adquisiciones establecidos en el ADP.
3.    En el area de gesti6n y evaluaci6n de resultados:



- 158 -
(a)   Verificar el cumplimiento de las obligaciones contraidas por las SEOPC en
los asuntos directamente comprometidos con el PCN (indicadores de
gesti6n acordados). El analisis cubrira diversos aspectos cuantificados por
los indicadores de gesti6n acordados, tales como porcentaje de contratos
concluidos en el termino y dentro del presupuesto previsto, nuimero de
contratistas que participan en las licitaciones, desarrollo y puesta en
funcionamiento de empresas de mantenimiento, capacitaci6n de contratistas
y consultores, etc.
(b)   Evaluar el progreso de las medidas institucionales y resultados obtenidos,
con relaci6n a los indicadores de verificaci6n definidos en el marco l6gico
del proyecto cuantificando en qu6 medida se han logrado los mismos y
formulando recomendaciones para mejorar el desempefno en aquellos
sectores donde los resultados no hayan sido satisfactorios.



- 159-
ANNEX 11
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
The following set of Project Performance Indicators have been prepared by the
SEOPC with the help of the Bank to serve as the basis for both the project supervision and
evaluation. They have been organized in four groups: input, output, outcome and impact
indicators to link the project objectives and components (inputs) with the expected
processes, outputs and outcomes. They will provide the project implementers with a
monitoring tool for ensuring proper use of project resources and that the goods and
services the project is expected to produce are delivered.
A.    Input Indicators measure the quantity of resources provided for the project
activities.
1.     Project Resources (US$).
Project Components              IBRD          SEOPC          Others         Total
Civil Works                     65.1           40.2            -            105.3
Signalization                    0.8           0.3             -             1.1
Supervision                      4.3           2.9             -             7.2
Goods                            1.2           0.2             -             1.4
Consulting services              3.6           0.9            3.0            7.5
Total                           75.0           44.5           3.0           122.5
2.     Maintenance budget (not financed by the project)
Budget RD$        1997          1998           1999          2000          2001
Planned        80,211,245     76,882,434    77,052,996     75,411,160    79,053,287
Executed
3.     Civil Works Cost.
Projects Components               Estimated    Actual   Difference   %
US$        US$
(I) Highway Widening cost per kilometer    750,000.00
(11) Bridge construction cost per meter      12,139.00
(111) By-pass construction cost per kilometer  465,000.00
(IV) Highway reconstruction cost per kilometer    170,000.00
(V) Highway resurfacing cost per kilometer  26,751.00
(VI) Maintenance cost per kilometer (periodic)  20,000.00
(VII) Maintenance cost per kilometer (routine)  2,100.00



- 160 -
4.     Disbursements (US$).
Bank's FY       1997         1998          1999         2000         2001          2002
IBRD  SEOPC  IBRD  SEOPC  IBRD   SEOPC _BRD  SEOPC  IBRD  SEOPC  IBRD  SEOPC
Estimate      9.0   5.3   14.0  8.3   16.0  9.5   16.0  9.5   15.0  8.9   5.0   3.0
US$ million
Actual US$
Million
5.     Average Supervision Cost as percentage of civil works contracts.
Bank's FY                              |  1997   | 1998   | 1999   | 2000   | 2001
Supervision cost/civil works cost (%)                       TI
Estimate: 10% (including technical auditing).
6.     Average percentage of physical contingencies in civil works.
Bank's FY                                | 1997   | 1998   | 1999   | 2000   | 2001
Physical Contingencies in Civil Works (%)
Estimate: 10%.
7.     Average percentage of contingencies in consulting contracts.
Bank'sFY    D                                1997   | 1998   |  1999   L  2000   | 2001
Contingencies in Consulting Contracts (%/6)
Estimate: 10%.
8.     Percentage of contracts completed on time.
Bank'sFY               =                   1997   I1998   |  1999   |  2000 |    2001
Contracts Completed on time (%)        I
More than 80%: very satisfactory  60-80%: satisfactory  40-60%: unsatisfactory  Less than 40%: very unsatisfactory
9.     Percentage of contracts completed on budget.
Bank's FY                                  1997      1998      1999       2000      2001
Contracts Completed on budget (%)
More than 80%: very satisfactory  60-80%: satisfactory  40-60'Vo: unsatisfactory   Less than 40%: very unsatisfactory
B.     Output Indicators measure the quantity of goods and services provided through
the use of inputs.



- 161 -
1.     Civil Works.
Project Components/Bank's FY             1997       1998       1999         2000        2001
Highway Widening (km)
Highway By-Passes (km)
Highway Reconstruction (km)
Highway Resurfacing (km)
Highway Maintenance by Contract (km)
Signalization (units)
Compare with Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 12).
2.     Acquisition of Goods.
Bank's FY               1997        1998   1   1999         2000       2001
Goods (% of cost)
Compare with Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 12).
3.     Institutional Strenghtening: *
Project Components/Bank's FY                           1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Maintenance:
Assistance and Training Program                         =       =_===
DARE:                                                                          ___
Training in Accounting and Financing Management
Contract Audit Consultants/Submission of audit reports
DCCT (Environmental Unit)
Assistance and Training Program
* 0 No action          1 Started              2 In progress           3 Completed
Compare with Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 12) and Action Program (Table 3.1, page 24).
C.    Outcome Indicators measure the quantity of direct results that have been
achieved through the provision of project goods and services.
1.     Vehicle Usage.
Project Components                          ADT
(v. D.d).
Before         After
Highway Widening                                 N.A.
Bridge and By-Passes                             N.A.
Highway Reconstruction
Boronga/Boya-S.G.de Boya-Doffa Maria             427
Doffa Maria-Cenicos                              578
Don Juan-Donia Maria                             518
C/El Pintado-Higuey                              453
La Romana-C/Guerrero-Guaymate- El Pintado        1,453
Acceso Refineria-Refineria                      4,744
Esperanza-Mao                                    654



- 162 -
Project Components                            ADT
Before          After
Rinc6n-Cruce El Pino                              3535
San Francisco de Macoris-Tenares                 3,259
Highway A sphalt Resurfacing
C/C 004-C/C 003 (Boca Chica)                      1,234
Hato Mayor-El Valle-Sabana de la Mar              419
Santiago-Licey al Medio                           5133
Licey al Medio-C/C 210-Moca                       3,259
Moca- C/C 014                                     2,801
C/C 014- San Victor                               1,021
San Victor- El Caimito                            666
El Caimito-Sabaneta de Yasica                     666
Moca- Salcedo                                     3,259
C/018 (Mao)- Pueblo Nuevo                         980
Pueblo Nuevo- C/C 031 (Guayubin)                  757
C/C 03 1(Guayubin)- C/C 231 Matas S. C.           396
C/C 045 Copey-Acc P. Salcedo                      396
ACC P. Salcedo-Puerto Manzanillo                  321
C/C 231 Matas Sta. Cruz- S. Maria                 396
Santa Maria-C/C 045  _Co3                                   _396
C/00 (La Vea)- Cutu-Moca                          2,792
C/C 001 - C/Guayacanes-Jarabacoa            _     436
Salcedo-Tenares                                  3,259
Tenares-Joba Arriba                          _    739
Joba Arriba-Gaspar Hernandez                      739
Cruce el 15 C/C Padre Las Casas                   1,537
C/C Padre Las Casas-San Juan                      1,537
San Juan-Las Matas de Farfan                      762
C/C 518 (C/Salinas)- Duverge                      405
Duverge-Jimani                                    373
Jimani-Boca Cachon                                398
Boca Cach6n-La Descubierta                        398
Galvan-Batey 2                                    448
Villa Jaragua-Neyba-Galvan                        424
La Descubierta-Villa Jaragua                      419
Cruce el 15/Canoa                                 1,425
Canoa- C/C 048 (C/Palo Alto                       1,425
C/C 048-C/C 046 (C/Cabral)                        1,425
C/C 046 (C/Cabral)-Barahona                       3,891
C/C 044 Cabral- C/518 (Salinas)                   425
Batey 2- C/C 044 (Palo Alto)                      448
C/C 048- C/C 046 (C/Salinas)                      425
ADT = Average Daily Traffic
v.p.d. = vehicles per day



- 163 -
2.     Road Condition.
Current and Future Condition of the Highway Network
1995               2001                2001
Planned             Actual
Paved Network          3831       100%     4240
Good Condition         3110       81%       4240    100%
Poor Condition          721       19%        0       0%
Total Network          5053       100%      5167
Good Condition         3477       69%       4607     89%
Poor Condition         1576       31%        560     11% oj
3.     Improve Maintenance Efficiency. Initiate program of routine maintenance by
contract: % total work undertaken by the private sector/year.
[ Contracted (% of cost)   1997          1998           1999          2000          2001
Estimate                   20            40            60             80            95
Actual
4.     Expected progress of routine maintenance by contract.
Maintenance by Contract    Maintenance b Force Account        Total Maintenance
Year       Km.          RD$             Km             RD$           Km.           RD$
1996       0.0            0           4,870.7      89,590,669       4,870.7     89,590,669
1997      1,000.0     17,111,546      3,902.7      63,099,799       4,870.7     80,211,245
1998      2,000.0     32,075,712      3,054.7      44,806,722       5,054.7     76,882,434
2000      3,000.0     47,240.226      2,051.7      29,812,770       5,051.7     75,411,160
2001      5,059.7     74,679,165         *          4,374,122       5,059.7     79,053,287
* Only non-programmable routine maintenance and emergencies
5.     Financing of Maintenance:*
Establishment of a Road Fund and Agency
Action                   Date (Planned)                 Date (Actual)
Adoption of instruments               12-31-98
Implementation                        12-3 1-99



- 164 -
D.    Impact Indicators measure the degree to which project objectives are being
achieve through the direct outcomes of project activities.
I1.    Objective: reduce traffic congestion. Indicator: average speed.
Avera e Speed
Project Components             Current        Expected
(Km/h.)        (Km/h.)
Highway Widening                  50             75
Bridge and By-Passes
1) Rio Bani/Bani                  25             35
2)Rio Higuamo/S.P. Macoris        25             75
3) Rio Dulce/La Romana            30             75
4) Rio Yaque del Norte            60             75
2.     Objective: reduce vehicle operation cost Indicator: cost per vehicle-km. *
US$ per veh-km.
Project Components                              Before        After
Highway Widening
Carretera Duarte Tramos Santiago-Navarrete         0.26
Carretera Sanchez Tramos B. de Haina-Refineria     0.25
Carretera Mella Santo Domingo-San Isidro           0.25
Bridge and By-Passes
1) Rio BaniUBani                                   0.32
2) Rio Higuano/S.P. Macoris                        0.33
3) Rio Dulce/La Romana                             0.27
4) Rio Yaque del Norte                             0.25
Highway Reconstruction
Boronga/Boya-S. Gde. de Boya-Donia Maria            0.39
Dofia Maria-Cevicos                                0.39
Don Juan-Dofia Maria                               0.40
C/El Pintado-Higuey                                0.42
La Romana-C/Guerrero-Guaymate-EI Pintado           0.31
Acceso Refineria-Refineria                         0.32
Esperanza-Mao                                      0.37
Rinc6n-Cruce El Pino                               0.33
San Francisco de Macoris-Tenares                   0.30
Highway Asphalt Resurfacing
C/C 004-C/C 003 (Boca Chica)                       0.18 
Hato Mayor-El Valle-Sabana de la Mar               0.32
Santiago-Licey al Medio                            0.31
Licey al Medio-C/C 210-Moca                        0.30
Moca- CIC 014                                      0.30
C/C 014- San Victor                                0.31
San Victor- El Caimito                             0.31
El Caimito-Sabaneta de Yasica                      0.31
Moca- Salcedo                                      0.29
C/018 (Mao)- Pueblo Nuevo                          0.32
Pueblo Nuevo- C/C 031 (Guayubin)                   0.32



- 165 -
US$ per veh-km.
Project Components                              Before        After
C/C 031(Guayubin)- C/C 231 Matas S. C.             0.32
C/C 045 Copey-Acc P. Salcedo                       0.33
ACC P. Salcedo-Puerto Manzanillo                   0.33
C/C 231 Matas Sta. Cruz- S. Maria                  0.33
Santa Maria-C/C 045 Copey                          0.33
C/001 (La Vega)- Cutupu-Moca                       0.30
C/C 001 - C/Guayacanes-Jarabacoa                   0.34
Salcedo-Tenares                                    0.30
Tenares-Joba Arriba                                0.31
Joba Arriba-Gaspar Hernandez                       0.32
Cruce el 15 C/C Padre Las Casas                    0.32
C/C Padre Las Casas-San Juan                       0.32
San Juan-Las Matas de Farfan                       0.33
C/C 518 (C/Salinas)- Duverge                       0.34
Duverge-Jimani                                     0.34
Jimani-Boca Cachon                                 0.34
Boca Cach6n-La Descubierta                         0.32
Galvan-Batey 2                                     0.32
Villa Jaragua-Neyba-Galvan                         0.31
La Descubierta-Villa Jaragua                       0.31
Cruce el 15/Canoa                                  0.32
Canoa- C/C 048 (C/Palo Alto)                       0.31
C/C 048-C/C 046 (C/Cabral)                         0.32
C/C 046 (C/Cabral)-Barahona                        0.31
C/C 044 Cabral- C/518 (Salinas)                    0.32
Batey 2- C/C 044 (Palo Alto)                       0.32
C/C_048-_C/C_046_(C/Salinas)                       0.31
*  < 0.2 =Low          0.27-0.33 = Good       0.33-0.45 =High        > 0.45   Very high
3.     Objective: improve road safety. Indicator: accidents (injuries and fatalities).
Accidents/Bank's FY             1997        1998        1999        2000         2001
Injuries/Veh-kmn                                    _
Fatalities/Veh. -km
4.     Objective: improve maintenance efficiency. Indicator: cost per lane-km.
Cost oer lane-km   S$'000)
Type of maintenance              1997       1998        1999        2000        2001
Routine
Periodic (including resurfacing)
Total).
Estimate: US$ 2, 100 (routine), US$ 13,400 (periodic), US$ 15,500 (total).



- 166 -
5.    Objective: ensure adequate financing of maintenance. Indicator: planned,
allocated and spent resources for maintenance. *
Type of Maintenance                  Resources allocated to Maintenance (USS$)
1997         1998         1999      P 2000          2001
PIA    D   P A    D    P A    D    P A    D    P A    D
Routine                                            P
Periodic
Total
* P = Planned        A = Approved         D = Disbursed



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ANNEX 12
PROJECT IMLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1997   19S8   1999     2000                    2001                    2002
ID   Task                                        Duration       01   2 Q3   4q1 Q2 0Q3 04 0102 03  q4  q10 2 03   4O1 2                                                      0 1 3  401 Q02 03
I     Start Prqect                                        Ow   _
2     Highway Widening                                  575d
3           a)Land Acquisition                          25w
4           b)Bidding                                    12w
5           C)Execution                                 78w
6     Bridge and BY-Pass ConsL                          575d                                                               -
7           a)Land Acquiston                            25w
8           b) Bidding                                  12w
9           c)Execution                                 78w
10     Higway tconsrucon                                920d 
11           a)Bidding Phase I                           18w
12           b)Reconsruction Phase I                     78w
13           c)Bidding Phase II                          12w
14           d)Reconstuction Phase II                    78w                                                                                           IOlSeo lO]
15     Highway Resurfacing                              84W
16           a) Bidding                                  12w
17           b)Execution                                156w                            _
Is     Routine Maintenance                              208w                                                                               _                   I [qseo-pcl0o
19     Road Signalization                                52w                                                     101,SeOpc1OJ
20     Supervision of Civil Works                      1140d                            _
21    a)Phasel                                          110w _                                   _           _
22           b)Phase1                                   110w1
23     Vehices,Parts & Off. Equip.                    28w                         So e
24     Instiuional Strengthening                       130I d
25           a)Coordination Team                        2bOw                                                                                                                             D
26           b)Procurement                            177.2w                                                                                m
27           c)Maintenance Manag.                       156w
26           d)Adm&FinancialControl                   104.4w                                                      [0
29           e)Strenghten of DCCT                        28w
30           t)Highway Accddents Dv Bass                 52w
31           h)Tranrport Invetment Prg.                  78w
32           h)Daveloppment Plan NW                      78w                                  ___[
33           DHighway Plan East Coast                    52w                                                                                         [01
34           k)Dranage & Sanit St Dgo.                   78w  _
)Feaswbility Sto igo-Bani Hgw              Zw                   _         rl[






- 169-
ANNEX 13
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
STAFF INPUT FOR PROJECT LAUNCH AND ANNUAL AND MID-COURSE REVIEWS
1.    The nature and scope of the project, the large programs of civil works and institutional
strengthening, the use of new pavement technologies and the introduction to maintenance by
contract and technical auditing will necessitate extensive and close supervision, especially
during the first two years of project implementation.
2.    A project launch mission and yearly project reviews will be organized, assisting the
staff of the implementing agencies to develop a common understanding of the project's overall
development objectives, operational procedures, coordination needs and potential
implementation problems and to select the components to be implemented during the
subsequent year. A qualified local expert will be engaged, for about two or three days a
month, to follow up project implementation for the Bank.
3.    The tentative composition and staffing level of the supervision plan and the supervision
timetable are presented in Table A13. 1. All missions will involve discussions with the project
officials in the SEOPC at its headquarters as well as field visits, on the basis of which the
mission will evaluate the project. Following is a description of the purpose and objectives of
each mission:
4.    Project Launch Workshop. A project launch workshop will be conducted in the
second quarter of 1997 to:
(a)   review and fine tune, as necessary, the implementation plan of the executing
agency (SEOPC);
(b)   identify and plan the required coordination among the road directorates, and;
(c)   review project management, procurement, environmental assessment,
disbursement, accounting and auditing procedures and requirements and
technical assistance and training programs.
5.    Annual Project Implementation Reviews. The purpose of the annual review is to:
(a)   assess the project performance against specific objectives and targets;
(b)   identify implementation problems and issues, and;
(c)   plan for the upcoming year, including the selection of subprojects.



- 170 -
6.    Mid-Term Implementation Review. This review will be carried out in December
1999 jointly by the Government and the Bank. The focus of the review is to ascertain to what
extent the project has achieved its development objectives. The Project Coordinator will
prepare the same reports for the Project Mid-Term Review as for the Annual Project Reviews.
However, if special issues warrant more detailed analysis additional studies will be carried
out.
The mid-term review will cover the annual review coverage plus:
(a)   project performance;
(b)   identification of areas in need of adjustment;
(c)   status of execution of the institutional strengthening program;
(d)   implementation of the highway maintenance plan;
(e)   implementation of the Road Fund and the Road Agency (ONMV);
(f)   impact of technical assistance;
(g)   effectiveness of environmental assessment; and
(h)   availability of counterpart funds.
7.    Modifications to Project Design. During the annual and mid-term reviews, there is
an opportunity to update project targets and discuss changes needed in the project design or
implementation plans. In this context, the Bank may require that the SEOPC prepare an
action plan for the Bank's review and approval within two months following the completion of
the corresponding project review. The SEOPC will incorporate the changes agreed upon in
the project documents. The PCT Coordinator will be responsible for organizing the mid-term
project review and ensuring that agreed follow-up actions, satisfactory to the Banks, are taken
in a timely manner.
8.   Implementation Plans. The project launch in FY97 will require 6 staff weeks.
Annual reviews would require about 6 staff weeks per year. In addition, one regular
supervision mission (one of one-week duration), comprising the task manager, a transport
specialist and an institutional development specialist will be necessary. The mid-term review
will require 9 staff weeks. Thus, total field supervision will amount to 55 staff weeks, and
office supervision is expected to amount to an additional 25 weeks, for a total of 80 staff
weeks during the life of the project, i.e. an average of about 16 staff weeks per year.
9.    During the first two years of project implementation, supervision efforts will focus on
organization and team development with a view toward strengthening the SEOPC's operational
capacity. The project launch workshop will be followed by additional supervision input to
familiarize selected local staff with the Bank's procurement, disbursement and auditing
procedures and guidelines.



- 171 -
10.   Proposed Agenda for Annual and Mid-Term Implementation Reviews. The first
annual project review will take place in February 1998. Annual reviews will focus on
evaluation of progress against the implementation of the Transport Sector Policy and Strategy
Statement and Action Plan and against agreed objective-oriented implementation, project
performance indicators and technical audits, and will serve to update and revise the 1997-2000
Highway Program and to discuss issues of project management. The result of the annual
review will be the agreement on the following year's program, and on remedial actions
required to address problems or changing circumstances during implementation.
11.   The mid-term review to be conducted not later than December 31, 1999 will follow
the same format as the annual reviews but the analysis of project impact will be expanded. In
addition to covering all the areas included in the annual reviews, the mid-term review will pay
particular attention to reviewing compliance with the Transport Sector Policy and Strategy
Statement and Action Plan, including: (a) Government's performance on project counterpart
funding and on adequately funding road maintenance; (b) the environmental guidelines for
SEOPC's activities; (c) achievement of stated performance goals; (d) effectiveness of technical
assistance carried out under the project; and (e) experience with the environmental assessment
of subprojects.
12.   A summary of the areas to be addressed in the annual and mid-term reviews is
presented below.
13.   Sector Wide Lssues. Coordination of Sector Planning and Policies: Progress in the
establishment of a functioning institutional framework for the coordination of sector
investments and policy formulation;
14. Road Subsector Issues.
(a)   concentration of road subsector investments on rehabilitation and priority
completion of projects;
(b)   availability and timeliness of project counterpart funds and road maintenance
funds;
(c)   progress in continuing reduction of SEOPC staff;
(d)   effectiveness of technical assistance;
(e)   effectiveness and experience with the environmental assessment of subprojects;
(f)   technical ability, soundness of judgment and compliance with Bank guidelines in
procurement and disbursements; and
(g)   private contractors' participation in road maintenance activities.



- 172 -
Table A13.1: Supervision, Project Launch and Annual Reviews
TIMING                          SUPERVISION TEAM               STAFFING (In weeks)
IBRD
1997        April                          Task Manager/Highway Engineer                 1
(Project Launch Workshop)     Transport Economist                            1
Local Consultant                              I
Environment Specialist                        I
Procurement Specialist                        I
Institutional Development Specialist          I
November (Supervision)        Task Manager                                   I
Transport Specialist                          I
Local Consultant                              I
Institutional Development Specialist          1
1998        February (Annual Review)       Task Manager                                  2
Institutional Development Specialist          1
Transport Specialist                          I
Local Consultant                              1
Environment Specialist                        l
November (Supervision)        Task Manager
Transport Specialist
Local Consultant                              I
Institutional Development Specialist          1
1999        February (Annual Review)       Task Manager                                  2
Institutional Development Specialist          I
Transport Specialist                          1
Local Consutant                               I
Environment Specialist                        1
1999        December (Mid-term Review)    Task Manager                                   2
Institutional Development Specialist          2
Financial Specialist                          I
Environment Specialist                        1
Transport Specialist                          1
Local Consultant
l ________ _                                Procurement Specialist                        1
2000        April (Supervision)            Task Manager                                  I
Transport Specialist                          I
Local Consultant                              1
Institutional Development Specialist
November (Supervision)        Task Manager                                   I
Local Consultant                              I
__________  ______________________  Institutional Development Specialist      1
2001        February (Annual Review)       Task Manager                                  2
Transport Specialist                          I
Local Consultant                              I
Environment Specialist                        I
Institutional Development Specialist          I
November (Supervision)        Task Manager                                  1
Transport Specialist/Local                    1
I Consultant  ___
2002        February (Final Review and     Task Manager                                  2
Completion)                   Institutional Development Specialist          1
I______I__    Local Consultant                                               I



- 173 -
ANNEX 14
REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS NACIONALES
TtRMINOS DE REFERENCLI PARA LA AUDITORiA FINANCIERO ADMINISTRATIVA Y DE
CUMPLIMIENTO LEGAL
1.    Selecci6n de la Firma. La firma sera seleccionada de acuerdo con el sistema de
"lista breve" con un minimo de tres y un maximo de ocho firmas profesionales de auditoria
de probada integridad, experiencia y reputaci6n. Esta selecci6n se efectuaria, para la
auditoria contractual prevista por el proyecto, a partir del 31 de Diciembre del 1997.
2.    Normas de Trabajo. El trabajo se efectuara de acuerdo con la normas
recomendadas por el "Comite de Auditoria" de la Federaci6n Intemacional de Contadores,
las recomendadas por el Instituto de Contadores P(iblicos Autorizados de la Repuiblica
Dominicana y las pautadas por el Banco Mundial en su documentaci6n FARAH y FM-600
(Pautas Minimas Sugeridas para la Auditoria de Prestatarios, Entidades Ejecutoras o
Intermediarias y Operaciones Financiadas por el Banco Mundial). En el alcance del
trabajo que se muestra mas adelante se presenta un resumen de los principales
componentes de la auditoria e informaci6n financiera requeridos por el Banco Mundial.
3.    Periodicidad de los Informes. Se requerira un informe anual de auditoria
financiero-administrativa y de cumplimiento sobre las oficinas ejecutoras y los proyectos
financiados por el Banco Mundial. El Banco podra requerir que dicho informe se emita
por periodos mas breves (por ejemplo, semestrales), en cuyo caso el ultimo informe, al 31
de Diciembre de cada ejercicio econ6mico, debera incluir el resumen de la ejecuci6n
financiero-operativa del proyecto durante todo el anio.
4.    Simultaneidad de Informes. Se recomienda que la firma de auditores a cargo del
examen se mantenga en contacto y, si fuese necesario, planifique su trabajo con la firma de
ingenieros auditores que haya sido aprobada para la realizaci6n de la ejecuci6n anual de
caracter fisico-operativo y de cumplimiento legal tecnico que hubiese sido aprobada. La
firma de auditoria financiera debera a su vez establecer contacto y efectuar su trabajo en
concordancia con la firma de auditores-ingenieros, sobre todo en aquellos sectores del
trabajo en que por su naturaleza resulte conveniente que se realicen de manera conjunta,
aun cuando cada firma se responsabilice por el trabajo efectuado por ella misma.
5.    Elaboracion del Contrato de Servicios Profesionales. Antes del comienzo de la
auditoria se elaborara un "convenio de servicios profesionales" entre la SEOPC y la firma
auditora. Este convenio se preparara de acuerdo con las practicas comunes para este tipo
de servicios y debera incluir la provisi6n de que: (i) el Banco Mundial podra tener acceso
directo a la firma auditora incluyendo los papeles de trabajo de la auditoria practicada; (ii)
los diversos informes de auditoria requeridos por el Banco Mundial seran entregados a la
SEOPC en una fecha que permita a esta la rernisi6n de tales informes al Banco Mundial
para la fecha limite prevista en los respectivos convenios de prestamo (y que en caso de



- 174 -
que el auditor documentase la imposibilidad de cumplir con este requisito, 6l remitiria una
carta a la SEOPC con copia para el Banco Mundial, indicando las razones que impedirian
dicho cumplimiento y la solicitud del prestatario al Banco Mundial solicitando al Banco
autorizaci6n para la nueva fecha de entrega).
6.    El contrato de servicios no debera incluir clausula punitiva alguna por demora en la
entrega del informe si previamente se di6 cumplimiento al procedimiento descrito. El
convenio de servicios se referira a los terminos de referencia, los cuales constituiran parte
integrante del contrato de servicio en cuesti6n.
7.    Documentaci6n Basica para la Realizaci6n de la Auditoria. Se supone que la
firma auditora antes de comenzar el trabajo habra tomado en consideraci6n o leido: (i) las
nomnas de la FIC; (ii) las recomendaciones del Comite Intemacional de Normas
Contables; (iii) el Documento de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto (Staff Appraisal Report-SAR),
preparado por el Banco Mundial (iv) el Convenio de Prestamo del Banco Mundial
correspondiente al Proyecto sujeto a examen; (v) las Ayudas-Memoria preparadas por las
misiones de Supervisi6n del Banco Mundial sobre las anteriores funciones y la
correspondencia entre la SEOPC y el Banco Mundial referente a la ejecuci6n fisico-
financiera del proyecto, los desembolsos a cuenta del prestamo incluyendo los referentes a
los Certificados de Gastos-SOE, y otra documentaci6n relevante con referencia al
Proyecto; (vi) la legislaci6n y reglamentaci6n del pais referente a obras puiblicas,
incluyendo la de protecci6n del medio ambiente; y (vii) otra documentaci6n relevante a la
ejecuci6n de la auditoria.
8.    Informes de Auditoria Requeridos.
(a)    opini6n sobre el Estado de Origen y Aplicaci6n de Recursos Invertidos en
el Proyecto y la "informaci6n financiera suplementaria" correspondiente
(una sola opini6n para ambos); comparaci6n fisico financiera de la
ejecuci6n; incorporaci6n, en la infommaci6n financiera sobre el proyecto, de
los eventuales activos, pasivos, contingencias, costos y gastos de caracter
ambiental; flujo de desembolsos (aportes locales convenidos y fondos del
Prestamo del Banco Mundial); cumplimiento con los indices de gesti6n y
eficiencia; analisis de las licitaciones, contratos y contratistas; analisis de la
utilizaci6n de la Asistencia Tecnica en consultores, estudios, etc.;
(b)   opini6n sobre la razonabilidad y elegibilidad de los Certificados de Gastos-
SOEs, emitidos durante el periodo y los controles ejercidos en el manejo de
los mismos;
(c)   opini6n sobre el Estado de Transacciones y Disponibilidad de fondos
mantenidos en la Cuenta Especial (incluyendo comentarios sobre el registro
y control ejercido por el banco depositario);



- 175 -
(d)   opini6n sobre la calidad aparente de la Estructura de los Controles Internos
contable-financiero-administrativos ejercidos por la administracion del
Proyecto sobre la gesti6n financiera del mismo;
(e)    opini6n (no "aseveraci6n negativa") sobre el cumplimiento legal: (i) con
las leyes y reglamentos nacionales que pudieran afectar la ejecuci6n
financiero operativa y ambiental de la SEOPC y del Proyecto; y (ii) con
las clausulas y anexos del Convenio de Prestamo, incluyendo las referentes
a la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, las de caricter financiero, la utilizaci6n de los
recursos del Prestamo, la de Adquisiciones y Consultores y la de la Cuenta
Especial.
(f)   "Carta a la Direcci6n" o de Asesoria Gerencial incluyendo: (i) comentarios
y ajustes a las cuentas examinadas; (ii) comentarios sobre cualquier
deficiencia seria observada sobre los controles internos (referencia cruzada
al informe en d); (iii) comentarios sobre la adecuaci6n del sistema de
registro e informaci6n contable-financiera, incluyendo el reconocimiento en
las cuentas del proyecto del eventual impacto ambiental (activos, pasivos,
costos, contingencias, etc.) derivado de la observaci6n de las leyes y
reglamentos de protecci6n del medio ambiente; (iv) comentarios sobre el
"examen de vulnerabilidad" efectuado, incluyendo, si fuese el caso,
cualquier comentario sobre situaciones serias que implicarian situaciones de
fraude, despilfarro, abusos administrativos, actos ilicitos y otras
irregularidades que atentarian al mantenimiento de un ambiente de
integridad y 6tica y de responsabilidad financiera respecto a la
administraci6n del Proyecto; (v) comentarios, emergentes del examen
practicado, tendentes a mejorar la economia y la eficiencia en la gesti6n del
Proyecto y a evaluar los resultados alcanzados frente a las expectativas
originales (tiempo y costo) del Gobiemo Nacional y el Banco Mundial
(auditoria de eficacia); y (vi) medidas adoptadas por la administraci6n de
Proyecto respecto a las sugerencias y recomendaciones de los auditores
referentes a auditorias anteriores y aceptadas en esa oportunidad por la
administraci6n.






- 177-
ANNEX 15
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECTr FlILE
1     SEOPC. Declaraci6n de la Politica a seguir en el Sector Transporte (24/1/1996).
2.    SEOPC and World Bank Staff Project Inplementation Plan.
3.    SEOPC and SERCITEC. Construction Industry Study.
4.    SEOPC wndH Aristizabal and C. Moreno. Manual Ambiental para Diseflo y
Construcci6n de Proyectos Viales.
5.    SEOPC andH. Aristizdbal and C. Moreno. Diagn6stico de las Zonas Comprendidas
entre Montecristi-La Isabela y Cabeza de Toro-Bavaro-El Macao y Tenninos de Referencia
para Estudios Especificos.
6.    SEOPC andH. Aristizabal and C Moreno. Evaluaci6n Ambiental para la
Construcci6n de Nuevos Tramos de Carreteras en el Pais.
7.    SEOPC and H. Aristizabal and C Moreno. Guias de Gesti6n Ambiental para
Proyectos Viales.
8.    World Bank. Teminos de Referencia Generales para la Auditoria del Proyecto.
9. SEOPC and World Bank Staff Documentos Estandar de Licitaci6n para Obras
Civiles, Adquisici6n de Bienes y Servicios de Consultoria a Utilizar durante la Implementaci6n
del Proyecto.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27393
130-tsl   -  _<     o~Egn                                                                                          ATLANTIC |O,,.  ,,    X              ATLANIC COC.AN
PRST                                         lotol                                                                          A LA         TI
Pep~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iIo                                                                                                                                    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c.   BOAN.
Soiacedo4,   45                             Hid1                                                                                                                                                    CA
opey                                                              Moote Looo \- Sobonet de Yasica                                                                                                    AUA ! CAW
OCEAN                                   UA                     ,b OA 
fiOAJA30N   'iANTIAGS   ~~~Stia^Am       ovorrte     <             Herrnonleo   - -                                                                       E) CUATAXAUO LCrbbo 
H. B1 )~   -iONQ     U ern Q IANw                             > AG                / 2                                                                        FACIFIC 2CEAN     Z     U      E     LAA         A,
~~           L.~~  VEN~EZUELA
SALCE         F CICNAGUA                                                                                  Th.  boundaries   colors.
D R ACI                                Ls Tc-nos                                              denominctions  -nd  ony
IOC                                                                                                                                                                        oth*r information shown
El AbBonicAoeN0so M'                                                              or  a b-ndories.
S>t'iabano Cr-t                                                                                   Ir33                                                                                        .
f f i  >   (  l o t o > L a s   M o l o s  b . .t o   C oB O N A   K  o  i  m  o      C rnS           o b s   r o n d .                                                        d ..  Ni s i b n
P I N A    ~~~~~~~~~~ A ~~~~SAN JUAN DE                           PtI  2/                      ;        auo               23 
roPO2A. Pric     |)@LA MAGUANA                                                                   Blcoca       >            at          }     NTE                    017                                        \
/ v~.9 TAPOA O   /bol                                                                                                                       i B.c              E                                                   /0
j  El COrCAdA     GUOyAbAI                                      Ycmas         11 del     23 BO7O9UONO     PUertO          ro         EL SEYBO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.rt  L EYB  10
LA DESCUBIERTA                                      Arnb    P-oto            s  J0nd -                              \
Cr.ce  L.,    d. Oc-                                       e,ro                                                                             nto~~~~~~~~0! cn~eIt  1IIUB   0
N.yb.                                             C  .                                                                                                                  4
JIMANN                                                                      AZA                                                                                  D     RCIRON<
44                                    ~~~~~~~SAN                          *    j      HCbezo
Cr~~~~~~~~~                                  CRIdSTOB                  SNO            '1 -                                               anRfolBcodl            de Toro
~~\\   \  1         *   14,                      LasSalinas                                                            DOMINICAN   REPUBLIC~~~~jonDOMNGO                          Ant
\  )   Polo //';                   i                                                          ~~~NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEDERNALES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uet C                                                                                                                                                      Iacs  F  RJET
"Ocoo                                                              D EnriqVIDENINGTO POUR LANES  ( 283 Km  --  PRIMARY ROADS
Cabor Rqo'.  \I    J-23-   HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCT.ON (1689 Km.) ~13~   REGIONAL ROADS
-   \i2/rie d a                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-102-  HIGHW AY   RESURFACING  (627.9  Km ,)  -114-  LOCAL  ROADS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-) -\ -  ROoUTINAE MAINTENANCE BY   ( 640 Km.)                                                                     A~    IRPORTS
RARAHONA ~ ~     ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       COTAC                         ~                         OT
Enr ul                                                                                          m    W BY-PASSES               (   20.3 Km.)                P ORTS
.   0    20        40       rM         80        100                                B                                                      SELECTED TOWNS
'N                  ___ __ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ ____L__I__BRIDGES                                                        (  0.6   Km.)          3     P OV N E C  I AL
KILOMETERS                                                    OTHER                      (  3.7 Km.)            9    NATIONAL CAPITAL
Totol (1,489.70 kM.)      -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOVEMBER 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       15670 DO
Type: SAR



