Report No. PIC1346
Project Name             Dominican Republic-National Highway Project...
(Formerly Sixth Highway Project)
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Highways
Project ID                DOPA35722
Borrower                  Government of the Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency       Secretaria de Estado de Obras
Publicas y Comunicaciones (SEOPC),
Santo Domingo,
Republica Dominicana
Tel: 1-809-567-5470.
Fax: 1-809-547-1580
Project Cost              US$102.4 million equivalent
Proposed IBRD Financing   US$70.0 million equivalent
Financing Plan            IBRD:US$70.0 million
Government:US$32.4 million equivalent
Year in 5-Year Lending Program             FY98S
Date PID Prepared         March 15, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date January 1996
Projected Board Date      December 1996
1.    Country and Sector Background.   The economy of the Dominican
Republic has undergone substantial structural changes since the 70s.
The deterioration of the terms of trade for products that were
traditional exports of the DR (sugar, ferronickel, etc.) has shifted the
backbone of the economy toward the tertiary sector, with dramatic growth
of the tourism industry, free trade zones and small service enterprises,
which currently compose 609 of the GDP.   The sustainable development of
the emerging industries relies heavily on the transport system to
provide an adequate and efficient access to tourist growth poles, free
trade zones and markets of primary agricultural production and mining
output. Roads are the backbone of that transport system. Internal
cargo traffic consists mainly of exports of commodities to the ports
(sugar, coffee, cacao and minerals) and transport of agricultural
products from the central regions to Santo Domingo and of industrial and
consumer goods from Santo Domingo to the rest of the country. Tourist
centers depend heavily on road infrastructure for improving its quality
of service and expansion.
2.    The road network is relatively extensive (5,000 km of highways and
14,000 km of rural roads). No significant new construction is required,
with the exception of a few links to connect some potential tourist
areas to the highway network (which previously require to prepare
regional development plans) and the replacement of some bridges and



urban sections of highways with insufficient geometric and structural
conditions that are bottlenecks in that network. Major emphasis has to
be put in eliminating bottlenecks in the trunk network, maintenance and
rehabilitation. The neccesary actions required to solve these problems
continue to require sustained support to the Secretariat of State of
Public Works and Communications (SEOPC).
3.    Project Objectives.    The objectives of the proposed project are
to: (a) reduce vehicle operating costs, improve access to markets and
encourage tourism development by eliminating bottlenecks and improving
the highway network; (b) improve the institutional capacity of SEOPC to
maintain the network and the availability of equipment by detailed
programs prepared with the management systems implemented under Loan
3350-DO; (c) improve the quality of pavements through a program of
periodic maintenance by contract, using the technologies transferred
under Loan 3350-DO; (d) continue to strengthen the domestic private
construction industry through intensive participation of local
contractors in road maintenance; (e) strengthen financing and budgeting
procedures through technical assistance; and, (f) establish a data bank
of road accident statistics.
4.    Project Description.   The proposed project would finance the
Highway Investment Program 1997-2000. The components of the project
would be: (i) widening to four lanes about km of congested trunk
highways; (ii) construction of four new bridges, three of them including
by-passes of urban highway sections with high volume traffic in densely
populated cities, to eliminate bottlenecks in the trunk network; (iii)
rehabilitation of about 182.5 km of the highway network; (iv) a pilot
program of highway resurfacing by contract using new pavement
technologies; (v) a pilot program of routine maintenance by contract;
(vi) a program of road signalization by contract; (vii) supervision of
civil works by private consultants; (viii) acquisition of vehicles,
spare parts and office equipment; and, (ix) an institutional development
program to: (a) assist in the coordination of the project; (b) assist
the Maintenance Directorate in the use of the maintenance systems and in
preparation and monitoring of contracts of highway resurfacing with new
technologies and routine maintenance; (c) implement a system of
administrative and financial control in the External Resources
Department (DARE); (d) strengthen the Department for the Control of
Earth Excavation-DCCT (environmental unit of the SEOPC); (e) establish
a data base on highway accident statistics; (f) carry out a study of a
financing mechanism for road maintenance to be implemented in 2001; (g)
prepare the future investment programs in the transport sector; (h)
prepare a development plan of the North-west region, including studies
on feasibility, environmental impact and preliminary design of basic
infrastructure; and, (i) prepare a highway development plan with private
financing participation for the east coast region.
5.    Project Implementation.   The SEOPC, through its Directorates of
Roads, Work Supervision, Maintenance, Policies and External Resources,
under the coordination of the Project General Coordinator assisted by a
supporting team, would be in charge of overall project execution.
6.    Environmental Aspects.     Since the civil works under the proposed
project do not involve new road construction, they will not adversely
-2 -



affect the quality of environmental or ecological systems. Only minor
environmental effects would result directly from the civil works
themselves, which include asphalt fumes, quarrying, borrow pits and
disposal of road materials and interaction with surrounding population.
The technical specifications for those works will provide adequate
protection from those effects. Nevertheless, an environmental impact
assessment will be prepared before negotiations. Furthermore, the
existing DCCT in the SEOPC, responsible for the monitoring of
environmental impacts, pollution of civil work construction and
regulation and control of quarrying and borrow pits, will be
strengthened under the proposed project.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



