                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 27265

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-41270)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                    DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                                            FOR A

                               NATIONAL HIGHWYAY PROJECT




                                         April 23, 2004




Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure SMU
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective February, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Dominican Pesos
                                       1 Peso = US$ 0.025
                                       US$ 1 = 40 Pesos



                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1   December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASP     Action Sustainability Plan
BDR     Bank of Reserves (Banco de Reservas)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DGMCCV  Directorate of Maintenance (Dirección General de Mantenimiento de Carreteras y
        Caminos Vecinales)
DGSFO   Directorate of Works Supervision (Dirección General de Supervision y Fiscalización de
        Obras)
DGTT    Directorate of Traffic (Dirección General de Transito Terrestre)
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
FHRMP   Fifth Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
HDM     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
MMS     Maintenance Management System
NDF     Nordic Development Fund
PCT     Project Coordinating Team
OSOE    Office of Supervision of State Works (Oficina Supervisora de Obras del Estado)
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SEOPC   Secretariat of State of Public Works and Communications
        (Secretaría de Estado de Obras Públicas y Comunicaciones)
STP     Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia)




                              Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                            Country Director     Caroline D. Anstey
                             Sector Manager      Danny Leipziger
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Jose M. Alonso-Biarge

                                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                               DO NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Borrower´s Completion Report                                            44

Project ID: P035722                                                  Project Name: DO NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.
Team Leader: Jose Alonso-Biarge                                      TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: DO NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-41270
   Country/Department: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                 Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (91%); Central government administration
                            (9%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/29/1994                                     Effective: 04/17/1997                11/10/1997
     Appraisal: 02/15/1996                                         MTR: 12/10/1999                  02/15/2001
      Approval: 12/19/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 10/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T. OF DOM. REP./SEOPC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Paul Isenman
Sector Director:                Danny Leipziger                                Paul Isenman
Team Leader at ICR:             Jose Alonso-Biarge                             Jose Alonso-Biarge
ICR Primary Author:             Jose Alonso-Biarge


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The main objective of the Project was to improve the transport sector conditions to facilitate the
development of major sources of growth, and improve access to markets by eliminating bottlenecks in the
trunk network, continuing the rehabilitation of the paved highway network and improving road safety.

The Project also sought to improve the institutional capacity of the Secretariat of State of Public Works
and Communications (SEOPC) to maintain the road network in a stable condition without continued donor
support and enforce new management practices and policies. This was to be achieved by: (a) strengthening
the capacity to implement maintenance programs; (b) improving the quality of pavements using the new
technologies introduced under the Fifth Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (FHRMP); (c)
introducing routine maintenance and signalization by contract and strengthening the domestic private
construction industry; (d) implementing a road fund managed by a new road agency that will ensure
adequate and timely release of funds to carry out maintenance programs, and (e) strengthening budget,
accounting, and auditing procedures.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There were no revisions to the project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project consisted of the following components:

(a) Civil Works

    (i) Widening existing highway sections to four divided lanes (28.3 km in total) to eliminate
    congestion along some high-volume sections (about 10,000+ vehicles per day) and a high percentage of
    trucks (over 20 percent). The following sections were included in this subcomponent: (i)
    Santiago-Navarrete along the Duarte Highway (20.3 km); (ii) Santo Domingo-San Isidro along the
    Mella Highway (6.3 km); and (iii) Bajo de Haina-Acceso Refinería along the Sánchez Highway (1.7
    km).

    (ii) Construction of 3 new bridges (564 m in total) and deck widening of an existing bridge (102
    m), where existing bridges have proven to be bottlenecks within the road network. The 3 new bridges
    included the following: (i) over the Baní River (150 m) in the city of Baní along the Sánchez Highway;
    (ii) over the Higuamo River (261 m) in the city of San Pedro de Macorís along the East Coast
    Highway; and (iii) over the Dulce River (153 m) in the city of La Romana along the East Coast
    Highway. The bridge in Baní was to be completed with the corresponding accesses and the
    improvement of the existing urban section (3.7 km), while the Higuamo and Dulce bridges were to be
    part of the bypasses of San Pedro de Macorís (12.3 km) and La Romana (8.0 km), two new highway
    sections. The deck widening corresponded to the bridge over the Yaque del Norte River (102 m) in
    Montecristi.

    (iii)Reconstruction of 169 km of the highway network.              The list of the highways to be
    reconstructed was agreed upon at appraisal. The SEOPC would annually review the list with
    the Bank and any modification or addition would be done only after obtaining the Bank's



                                                     - 2 -

    approval.

    (iv) Highway resurfacing of 628 km using new pavement technologies tested under the FHRMP (Ln.
    3350-DO). The list of the highways was also agreed upon at appraisal. The SEOPC would
    annually review the list with the Bank and any modification or addition would be done only
    after obtaining the Bank's approval.

    (v) Pilot program of routine maintenance by contract along 640 km (13 percent of the network).
    Routine maintenance for the rest of the network was to have been contracted out by 2001. The initial
    programs were agreed with the Borrower at negotiations.

    (vi) Road signalization program by contract including informative signals for connection among
    roads, itineraries for some destinations, tourist locations, and road services provided to the users.

(b) Civil Work Supervision and Technical Auditing

    (vii) Supervision of civil works, including technical auditing for widening, reconstruction, and
    rehabilitation of highway and construction of bridges financed by the Project. These tasks were to have
    been carried out by independent consultants funded by the Loan to provide quality control and ensure
    compliance with bid specifications. The highway resurfacing, routine maintenance, and signalization
    programs would be supervised by the Directorate of Maintenance (Dirección General de
    Mantenimiento de Carreteras y Caminos Vecinales - DGCCV) staff trained under technical assistance
    financed by Ln. 3350-DO.

(c) Acquisition of Goods

    (viii) Acquisition of vehicles, spare parts, and office equipment. This component included the
    acquisition of all terrain vehicles to facilitate design and supervision of the highway resurfacing and
    maintenance programs, spare parts for the operation of existing maintenance equipment, and office
    equipment (desk-top computers, printers, and photocopy machines).

(d) Consulting Services and Training

    (ix) Consulting services for a technical assistance program consisting of: (a) coordination of
    project implementation; (b) assistance in the use of maintenance systems, in the preparation and
    monitoring of maintenance contracts, and in implementing a road fund to be managed by a road
    agency; (c) advise and training in financial management and internal performance audits; (d)
    strengthening the environmental unit of the SEOPC; (e) establishing a data base on highway accident
    statistics; (f) preparation of future investment programs in the transport sector; (g) preparation of a
    development plan for the northwestern region, including feasibility and environmental impact studies
    and preliminary engineering design of basic infrastructure; (h) preparation of a highway development
    plan for the eastern coastal region; (i) preparation of a drainage and sanitation plan in the city of Santo
    Domingo to complement the urban transport study financed by Loan 3350-DO; and (j) preparation of a
    feasibility study of the widening to four lanes and subsequent maintenance for the concession of the
    Santo Domingo-Baní Highway. Subcomponents (e), (g) and (h) were to be financed by the Nordic
    Development Fund (NDF), expectation that did not materialize ahead of negotiations.




                                                       - 3 -

Project components would be directly implemented by the Secretariat of Public Works and
Communications (Secretaría de Obras Públicas y Comunicaciones or SEOPC). SEOPC did not require
the establishment of a new project implementation unit (PIU) because it used the existing one in charge of
implementing the FHRMP, with the head of the unit or General Coordinator appointed by the Secretary of
State, and the supporting team financed by the Loan.

3.4 Revised Components:

The overall project components were not revised. Changes however took place on the final list of road
segments reconstructed or rehabilitated under the Project. In component (a) (i) Bajos de Haina-Acceso
Refineria, (to be substituted with the construction of a link to the oil refinery and the port of Haina under
the modernization of the Santo Domingo-San Cristobal motorway) and Santo Domingo-San Isidro
(initiated exclusively with local financing and later on withdrawn from the Project) were replaced by 5.7
km of the Avenue of the Americas between bridges Duarte and Juan Carlos. This section was included
within the context of the concession of the Avenue of Las Americas up to Boca Chica and the 6 de
Noviembre Motorway as a highway concession pilot project. The new section was added after loan
effectiveness as a manner to increase and enhance private participation in highway rehabilitation and
maintenance by facilitating the concession initiative, through the improvement of the conditions of highway
segments that feed into those to be given in concession.

The reconstruction of two roads (Esperanza-Mao, 11 km and San Francisco-Tenares, 13 km) and the
construction of the new Baní bridge, all originally included in the Project, were financed by the Government
before the effectiveness date.

On September 22, 1998, Hurricane Georges seriously damaged a large number of structures, basically
bridges and important road sections from the country's road system. To repair the damages, a road and
bridge component was included in the Emergency Recovery Project (Loan 4420-DO). This new loan was
approved by the Bank, signed by the Government in December, 1998 and declared effective on June 23,
1999. However, immediately after the disaster, it was agreed, by the Borrower and the Bank, that the most
urgent reconstruction works, necessary to restore service in the road network severely damaged by the
hurricane, would be financed with funds from Loan 4127-DO, then already underway. The works were
directly contracted, as an exceptional and urgent measure, with construction companies that had ongoing
contracts under Loan 4127-DO. When these works were being built, Loan 4420-DO was signed for
repairing other damages. After the closing date (June 30, 2003) of Loan 4420-DO and during the grace
period granted by the Bank to complete disbursements for expenditures made before the closing date, it was
clear that about US$1.0 million would remain undisbursed from that loan. Since Loan 4127-DO closed on
October 31, 2003, and could easily absorb more funds that the ones already committed, the transfer of
funds between loans was partially reversed and US$818,000, were transferred back to Loan 4127-DO,
making possible the full disbursement of Loan 4420-DO.

Since construction and reconstruction of roads and bridges were both objectives of the two projects, it was
not necessary to formally restructure the National Highway Project because the project description in the
Loan Agreement did not need to be modified. Therefore, 12 bridges (totaling 612 m) were completely
rebuilt at a cost of US$6.5 million, including civil works and supervision, with US$4.5 million financed by
Loan 4127-DO. The financing of part of these bridges was partly compensated with resources from Loan
4420-DO for a road (Sabana Grande de Boyá-Doña María) and a bridge (Benito Monción, in Montecristi)
originally intended to be financed by Loan 4127-DO.




                                                     - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Project predates the introduction of the QAG process at the Bank. The ICR finds the quality of entry to
be highly satisfactory, because the Project was largely consistent with sector needs at the time of appraisal
and supported the 1995 CAS objective of backing up the Government's rehabilitation and reform program
to refurbish infrastructure and foster private sector development. The Project was intended to play an
important role in removing transport bottlenecks to tourism and free trade zones, two pillars of the
country´s economy. It was also in line with the Government's strategy in the transport sector that had
focused on reconstruction and maintenance of key links of the highway network.             Improvements in
maintenance management and consolidation of new pavement technologies introduced under Loan
3350-DO were also pursued. Project design did adequately specify the segments and the number of
kilometers to be rehabilitated and did provide a well designed work program and schedule.

SEOPC's weak capability to address environmental issues associated with roads and other transport
projects was also considered. An Action Plan for strengthening the Environmental Unit was agreed during
project appraisal and an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study was carried out by a group of
national and international consultants, financed under Loan 3350-DO. The final EIA report was delivered
before appraisal.

During project preparation a broad revision of SEOPC's administrative structure was performed, as the
entity in charge of project execution. Special attention was given to the organization and the functions of
the SEOPC's General Directorate of the Administration and its three basic functions: Accounting, Budget
and Treasury.

As part of the project monitoring, reporting and supervision plan, the Project introduced technical auditing.
This was an innovation to ensure consistency in work supervision, develop capacity within the SEOPC to
monitor work quality, evaluate the results of the introduction of routine maintenance by contract and
support annual and midterm reviews of the physical performance of the Project.

The Highway Maintenance Programs for 1997-2000 were prepared with the assistance of consultants
implementing the Maintenance Management System (MMS), under technical assistance financed by Loan
3350-DO. The programs were prepared considering a level of maintenance defined by a set of quantity
standards with modifying factors according to pavement condition, surface type, climatic regions, pavement
age and policies.

The establishment and staffing of the Project Coordinating Team (PCT) was a condition of project
effectiveness. The Project financed five local consultants of the PCT: the team head and four professionals,
in addition to the consulting services also financed by the Loan.

The SAR correctly identified the main project risks that ended up having a significant impact on project
implementation. The main risks included: (a) delays in the widening and reconstruction investments, (b)
insufficient maintenance financing and, (c) the proposed Road Fund not implemented before project
completion.




                                                     - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The objective of improving transport conditions facilitating the development of the major sources of growth
was fully achieved with the widening and construction of bypasses of highways connecting Santo Domingo
and Santiago with tourist areas and free trade zones in the northern and eastern regions of the country. The
road reconstruction component contributed to the completion of the reconstruction of the paved road
network and to improve safety. In addition to the project contribution to the development objective, the
Government started in 1999 an ambitious program of highway expansion and network capacity
improvement that was continued and even enlarged by the Government who took over (from a different
party) as a result of the 2000 presidential elections. This additional program also contributed to the
development of tourist areas and free trade zones. Table 4.1 shows the SEOPC investments in the main
road network, excluding maintenance, from 1998 through 2003 and the comparison of the total investments
with those financed with the Loan. The comparison may help to understand the relative importance given
by the Government to some subprojects financed by the Loan.

                                     Table 4.1 Highway Investments
                                      RD$ (US$ Equivalent) million
                                                (1998-2003)
                                        1998         1999        2000         2001         2002         2003
  With Loan Resources                     66.81      166.17       277.35       304.10      360.50       203.25
  (including Loan 3350-DO)               (4.37)     (10.09)      (16.48)      (17.50)     (19.86)        (6.70)
  Total                                 679.60       854.09     2,353.95     2,169.03   1,165.05        846.04
                                        (44.44)     (52.17)     (139.85)     (124.86)     (64.18)       (27.88)
  % Loans of Total                         9.83        19.34       11.78        14.02       30.94        24.02


To finance this ambitious investment program the Government issued, in year 2002, US$600 million of
"bonos soberanos" (sovereign bonds), using part of the money to pay counterpart funds for subprojects
under the Loan of major political interest. In 2002 the SEOPC also started a concession program, under
which 30-year concessions are awarded, where the concessionaire finances and carry out improvements to
parts of the roads concessioned and maintenance over the life of the concession, and is entitled to collect the
revenues from toll on the roads. Two major highways, Santo Domingo-Samaná (US$120 million) and
Santo Domingo-La Romana (US$100 million) have been awarded and are underway. It is expected that
new concessions will be awarded in the near future, taking into account the need to improve capacity in the
main network and the scarcity of resources for the SEOPC, as a consequence of the reduction in the budget
for public works during the upcoming process of economic stabilization.

The objective to improve the institutional capacity for highway maintenance was only partially achieved.
Details are in sections 4.4 and 4.5. Pilots of maintenance by contract, for routine as well as comprehensive
road maintenance, were carried out that provided useful models of ways to improve efficiency in the
execution of road maintenance. The comprehensive model also included new pavement technologies
introduced under the previous loan. A new financial management system was put in place, and has resulted
in better accounting controls, easier preparation of disbursement requests and audits and better project
financial reporting. The most problematic issue is the financing of maintenance. The 2003 SEOPC annual
budget included several road maintenance related activities that, if grouped and put together under a
maintenance program, prepared based on the actual needs of the network and managed by a solid



                                                     - 6 -

management unit, could have met the maintenance objectives. However, those resources were allocated and
awarded in an ad-hoc manner, without a proper maintenance strategy and planning. Effectiveness in the
use of resources was further hampered by lack of an appropriate procurement process for some of the
works financed solely by the government budget.

Table 4.2 below shows the expenditures for maintenance in the period of the Project. Four different
departments within the SEOPC were in charge of carrying out these activities.                        The Directorate of
Maintenance (Dirección General de Mantenimiento de Carreteras y Caminos Vecinales-DGMCCV) was in
charge of routine maintenance activities mostly carried out by force account; the Directorate of Traffic
(Dirección General de Tránsito Terrestre-DGTT) was in charge of road safety activities carried out by
contract, including road signalization, installation of safety barriers and minor safety works (among them
"black spots" improvement); the Directorate of Works Supervision (Dirección General de Supervision y
Fiscalizacion de Obras-DGSFO) was in charge of road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance not
financed by the Loan, also carried out by contract; and finally, the project coordination unit was
responsible for the routine and periodic maintenance programs financed by the Loan, carried out by
contract. Coordination among these four different departments was almost nonexistent along the life of the
Project, because there is no other authority than the Secretary of State to impose that coordination among
units at the level of General Directorates and the Secretary of State did not exert that authority.

The level of implementation of the 2003 maintenance budget was more than 100% with respect to the
originally planned, if we include RD$263.2 million in safety barriers (financed with a credit from a
commercial bank). The remainder includes other road safety activities mentioned above. However, if we
consider this a one-time event, the budget for the remaining maintenance activities goes down to
RD$803.75 million (US$27.55 million equivalent) and the level of implementation to about 93.6%, still a
remarkable achievement. While activities related to road safety and periodic maintenance were largely
funded and executed, routine maintenance did not receive neither sufficient resources nor support. Almost
all routine activities were carried out under the corresponding project component. Therefore, to achieve the
objective of maintaining the road network in a stable condition without continued donor support, it is of the
utmost importance to get an adequate distribution of the resources available for maintenance through
adequate planning, based on the most urgent maintenance needs, and to execute the plan under the
coordination of a unit with authority enough to coordinate all units involved in maintenance activities.

                                       Table 4.2 Maintenance Expenditures
                                            RD$ (US$ equivalent) Million
                                                       (1998-2003)
                                        1998        1999         2000            2001          2002      2003        2003
                                                                                                       Planned     Executed
  Directorate of Maintenance            52.97       49.11          41.71          47.35         36.00     56.00        55.34
  (DGMCCV)                             (3.60)       (3,10)        (2.58)          (2.84)        (2.06)   (1.92)        (1.90)
  Directorate of Traffic                                                         139.12        208.68    485.34       684.26*
  (DGTT)                                                                          (8.33)       (11.95)  (16.64)      (23.46)*
  Directorate of Works                                                           139.52         11.72    315.65       295.73
  Supervision (DGSFO)                                                             (8.36)        (0.67)  (10.82)       (10.14)
  Project Coordination Team                                        28.37         153.85        121.30     31.00        59.22
  (PCT)                                                           (1.75)          (9.21)        (6.95)   (1.78)        (2.03)
  TOTAL                                 52.97       49.11          70.08         479.84        377.70    888.00      1094.75**
                                       (3.60)       (3,10)        (4.33)         (28.73)       (21.64)  (30.44)      (37.53)**
  % Contracted out                                                 40.48%         90.13%        90.47%   93.70%        95.00%
 *421.06 (14.23) excluding safety barriers
 **831.55 (28.51) excluding safety barriers and 410.49 (14.07) excluding all safety activities



                                                            - 7 -

The intended creation of a Road Maintenance Fund with dedicated funds for road maintenance did not
materialize due to lack of political will. As a provisional measure, the SEOPC agreed to establish a Road
Maintenance Account, administered by the SEOPC, which could have served as a gradual step toward the
eventual establishment of a road maintenance fund. This measure could not be implemented due to
legislation enacted by Congress later on, leading to the creation of a Single Account within the National
Treasury for all government revenues. Since the Fund was not established, the intended creation of a new
agency to manage road maintenance budgeted under the Fund did not take place.

In summary, the data show that the resources available in 2003 for maintenance would have been sufficient
to meet requirements, if they had been spent with adequate planning and satisfactory management. Current
uncertain political and economic conditions of the DR make it unlikely that allocation of resources will be
corrected in the near future. However, the SEOPC contracted out a Road Condition Survey at the end of
the Project (financed by the Loan) to collect data in the field on the road condition of about 2,000 km of the
main road network. The data were utilized to feed the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model,
version 4 (HDM-4 model) and prepare a rehabilitation and maintenance program of the roads surveyed,
which should serve as a model for the SEOPC to prepare future maintenance and rehabilitation programs.

Table 4.3 and the figure below, show the investments and maintenance expenditures together from 1998 to
2003, and the percentage of the latter with respect to the former, which confirms that the overall budget for
maintenance activities (with the caveats of road safety) substantially improved in the last two years of the
Project.

                                     Table 4.3 Investments and Maintenance
                                            RD$ (US$Equivalent) million
                                                       (1998-2003)
                                           1998           1999         2000            2001             2002          2003

 Maintenance                                 52.97         49.11         70.08          479.84          377.70     1,094.75*
                                             (3.60)        (3,10)        (4.33)        (28.73)          (21.64)      (37.53)*
 Investments                                679.60        854.09      2,353.95        2,169.03        1,165.05       846.04**
                                           (44.44)        (52.17)     (139.85)        (124.86)          (64.18)      (27.88)**
 Total                                      732.57        903.20      2424.03         2,648.87        1,542.75       1940.79
                                           (48.04)        (55.27)     (144.18)        (153.59)          (85.82)       (65.41)
 % Maintenance / Total                        7.49           5.61          3.00          18.71           25.22       57.38***
    *831.55 (28.51) excluding safety barriers and 410.49 (14.07) excluding all safety activities
    **1,109.24 (37.11) including safety barriers as investments and 1,530.30 (51.34) including all safety activities as
    investments
    ***43,59 considering safety barriers as investments and 21.51 considering all safety activities as investments




                                                            - 8 -

                                                   Figure 1

                     160
                     140
                     120
                     100                                                              Maint.
                      80
                                                                                      Invest.
                      60
                      40                                                              Total

                      20
                        0
                           1998     1999     2000      2001    2002    2003



4.2 Outputs by components:

The Project had seven components/sub-components. Main outputs delivered under these components are
discussed below (see also Table in Annex 1). All components were completed by the closing date with the
exception of three civil works (roads) to be completed with local funds. The completion of these roads at a
higher standard of pavement and with all the complementary signalization and ancillary services would
have required a new extension of the closing date (eight months), which was requested by the Borrower but
not granted by the Bank, for reasons not related to the Project, but to the political, economic and fiscal
problems in the country. Two factors prevented the completion of those three works at those higher
standards by the closing date. First, the insufficient amount of counterpart funds necessary to complete the
works. Second, the unforeseeable suspension of asphalt products supplies from Venezuela, at the time the
only supplier. This suspension affected also other civil works under the Project.

Road Widening Program (expansion to 4 lanes). This program originally included 3 sections of which
the Santiago-Navarrete (17.8 km) section was completed and inaugurated on April 28, 2002. The second
section, Bajos de Haina-Acceso Refinería, will be substituted with a link to the Refinery and the port of
Haina included in a highway concession recently awarded but not started. The third section, Santo
Domingo-San Isidro was initiated by the Office for Supervision of State Works (Oficina Supervisora de
Obras del Estado-OSOE) with local financing but the works were not completed. The SEOPC decided to
withdraw this subproject from the list financed by the Loan. Replacing these two sections, the widening of
the Autopista Las Americas between bridges Duarte and Juan Carlos (5.7 km), a major work, was included
under the Loan during the implementation period, as a result of an agreement with the SEOPC concerning
the Highway Concession Pilot Project (see Section 3.4). It was split into two segments: Segment I, between
Puente Duarte and Av. San Vicente de Paul, already completed and inaugurated on August 1st, 2003, and
Segment II, between San Vicente de Paul and Juan Carlos bridge. This segment is already in service, but it
will be completed with an asphalt course with local funds. All loan funds for these works have been
disbursed.
The total length of widening under the Project is finally 23.52 km, against 28.3 km (with lower engineering
standards) in the SAR.


Bridge and Bypass Construction Program. The first phase of the San Pedro de Macorís bridge and
bypass, which includes just one roadway of the bypass connected to the existing bridge (once this was fixed
to allow the crossing of two lightweight vehicles) was completed and is in service. The second phase,
which includes the second roadway of the bypass, was included in the concession Santo Domingo-La
Romana. A new bridge over the Higuamo River is under construction with local funds and is expected to
be completed within two years, together with the second phase of the by-pass. The construction of the



                                                     - 9 -

Montecristi bridge (once the foreseen deck widening was discarded for technical reasons), was financed
under Loan 4420-DO, as a partial compensation for the emergency works financed under Loan 4127-DO.

Works in La Romana bridge and bypass were well advanced at the closing date, but the bridge over the
Dulce River, the asphalt layers on the bypass and the signalization and ancillary services, envisioned in the
expanded design approved by the SEOPC, are being completed with local funds. This contract initially
included new construction of 8.0 km and the bridge for a by-pass that avoided the most congested part of
the existing road crossing the city of La Romana, but ended in a semi-urban area. With the works just
started, the SEOPC decided to expand the by-pass 5.2 km to the west, to avoid that semi-urban growing
populated area as well. The cost of the additional works could not be completely covered by the Loan and
the Bank's no objection to the expansion was conditioned to the commitment by the Government to finance
the difference. Economic circumstances in the DR prevented the SEOPC from getting the funds when
required and this resulted in the slower than expected progress of the works.
The total length of the bypasses under the Project is finally 25.74 km (29.44 km, including the access to
Baní financed only with local funds) against 24.00 km in the SAR.

In addition to the above mentioned bridges, Loan 4127-DO also financed 12 bridges located practically
along the path of Hurricane Georges, completely rebuilt at a cost of US$6.5 million. This cost included
civil works and supervision and were financed with US$4.5 million from the Loan. The 12 bridges were
completed before the end of the Project. The financing of these bridges was "compensated" with resources
from Loan 4420-DO for a road (Sabana Grande de Boyá-Doña María) and a bridge (Montecristi)
originally intended to be financed by Loan 4127-DO, and the transfer of US$818,100 from loan 4420-DO
back to loan 4127-DO in July 2003.
The total length of bridges under the Project is 1,061.20 m (1,211.20 including the Baní bridge financed
only with local funds) against 563.80 in the SAR.

Road Reconstruction Program. The program included three groups of works with an approximate total
length of 124 km, plus 24 km included in the SAR, but financed only with local funds. The scope of all
these works was also expanded with local funds. The works have been completed with the exception of the
Cruce Pajón-Doña María road, (28.5 Km) and Boronga-Boyá-Sabana de Boyá (18 km) roads, which
would also have required an additional eight-month extension to be completed. These works particularly
the former have been severely affected by the scarce supply of asphalt binders. The technical standards for
these works were substantially upgraded by the SEOPC (to the point that they became those of
construction of a new road rather than reconstruction) under similar arrangements than in the case of La
Romana by-pass and shared with it similar problems and solutions. Those roads close a circuit in the
central part of the country with high expectations on agricultural production. The reconstruction of two
roads (Esperanza-Mao, 11 km and San Francisco-Tenares, 13 km), originally included in the Project, was
entirely financed by the Government and started before the effectiveness date.
The total length of road reconstruction under the Project is finally 123.95 km (147.95 km including 24 km
financed only with local funds) against 168.90 km (at lower engineering standards) in the SAR.

Highway Resurfacing of 628 km using new pavement technologies tested under the FHRMP. This
program was merged with other maintenance programs to design and test a comprehensive maintenance
three-year program (by contract) discussed below.

Maintenance by Contract Pilot Program. This program included two different types of contracts: (i)
three routine maintenance one-year contracts (one for Autopista Duarte and two for the eastern region); and
(ii) three comprehensive maintenance three-year contracts, each one corresponding to a different area in the
country (Northwest, Cibao and South). This maintenance by contract program was piloted because there



                                                    - 10 -

was no previous experience with comprehensive maintenance contracts in the Dominican Republic. These
contracts include routine and periodic maintenance, rehabilitation of selected road segments and bridges,
training and program management.

The first phase of the routine maintenance contracts was not satisfactorily completed, partly because of the
delays in payments, but also because of lack of interest by the contractors. It was agreed not to extend
these three routine maintenance contracts when they expired but to proceed with the bidding of the
maintenance activities for shorter lengths of roads of the network and contract periods (so that contracts
will be smaller than US$250,000). The new bid terms were expected to attract smaller contractors that
should show greater interest and effectiveness in executing the works. This second approach of the
program was satisfactorily implemented. The contracts included a total of 370 km of roads.

The three comprehensive maintenance three-year contracts were tendered under ICB and awarded to
international firms. The contracts included routine and periodic maintenance, some minor rehabilitation
works, signalization, training provisions for all professional and labor levels in the SEOPC and the local
subcontractors and program management.        The implementation of these contracts for comprehensive
maintenance of about 630 km concluded satisfactorily. The contracts were later extended to rehabilitate the
Otra Banda-Verón road (20 km), leading to the tourist eastern area of Punta Cana, with new pavement
technologies introduced under Loan 3350-DO.

Acquisition of goods. This program consisted of the acquisition of office equipment and vehicles for the
PCT and was satisfactorily concluded. Some of the goods, initially included under the Loan, were finally
financed by a parallel IDB loan.

Informative Signalization Program.       The program was also completed as designed.           Some of the
signalization works initially included in the Project were carried out as part of the reconstruction works
financed by the Loan and local funds.

Technical Assistance. All consulting services financed by the Loan were satisfactorily completed, with the
exception of the development plans of the North-Western and Eastern costal regions. These services were
to be financed by the NDF, but ahead of negotiations the NDF did not renewed its initial commitment. The
cost of supervision of civil works substantially increased, due to the necessary adjustments forced by the
slower execution pace and wider scope of most civil works, to the point that the resources in the Loan for
this category were exhausted and in the last phase of the Project it had to be completely financed with local
counterpart funds by the SEOPC.

The contract for developing the Accident Information System, also included in the Project with NDF
financing, was finally financed by the Loan as part of the institutional strengthening program and was
successfully completed, including the arrangements for its implementation.

Road Condition Survey. This contract was added at the end of the Project to collect data in the field
concerning the condition of about 2,000 km of the main road network to prepare a rehabilitation and
maintenance program of the roads surveyed. This program should serve as a model for the SEOPC to
prepare future rehabilitation and maintenance programs. Based on the results of the roads surveyed, the
actual condition of the paved network, compared to the existing one in 1995 and the estimated in the SAR
for 2001, is presented in Table 4.4 below.




                                                    - 11 -

                                 Table 4.4 Condition of the Road Network
                                              (1995-2001-2003)
                                           1995                      2001                      2003
                                                                (SAR estimate)               (Actual)
      Paved Network                          3831      100%          4240                       4240
      Good and Fair Condition                3110       81%          4240          100%         4,028       95%
      Poor Condition                          721       19%             0            0%           212       5%



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

An ex-ante economic evaluation was done at the time of project preparation using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III) that evaluated the road widening, bypass construction and the
highway reconstruction and resurfacing programs, which yielded a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$ 99.3
million and an overall Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 24.5 percent.

The ex-post economic evaluation was done using the HDM-4, (an updated version of the HDM-III), for the
road subprojects implemented under the Project. Some subprojects planned at appraisal (Santo Domingo ­
San Isidro and Bajos de Haina ­ Refinería widening, Baní access, and Esperanza ­ Mao, San Francisco ­
Tenares and Boyá ­ Doña Maria reconstructions) were not implemented under the Project; therefore, they
were not submitted to an ex-post evaluation. During project implementation, the scope of most of the works
changed from necessary repairs of surface distress to full rehabilitation and reconstruction. This change
was due to higher-than-estimated traffic growth on the main roads and faster than expected road
deterioration. The ex-post HDM-4 evaluation considered: (i) actual costs; (ii) actual traffic; (iii) actual
timing and duration of road works; and (iv) 20 years evaluation period with 12 percent discount rate.

The HDM-4 Model estimated the net benefits of each project in terms of reduction of vehicle operating
costs, passenger time costs and road maintenance expenditures, which occurs after periodic maintenance or
rehabilitation works. The results show (see Annex 3) that, with the exception of the Boronga-Boyá-Sabana
Grande de Boyá section, all subprojects are economically justified, under the ex-ante or ex-post scenarios,
with rates of return higher than 12 percent. The Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de Boyá section has an
ex-post economic rate of return of 7 percent, due to the high actual project costs and low traffic.
Nevertheless, this is a road, practically new, that links the road network surrounding Santo Domingo with
the road circuit in the central part of the country (reconstructed under the Project) with high expectations
on agricultural production and annual traffic growth probably higher that the 3% used in the analysis. For
the eleven projects, the overall ex-post IRR is 22.3 percent corresponding to a total NPV of US$ 81.94
million.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project had a positive impact on institutional development, particularly during the first half of
implementation when various institutional strengthening activities were implemented. They included the
preparation and implementation of an environmental manual, the strengthening of the SEOPC's
environmental unit and the development of a financial management system. This system was taken as a
model for the agencies implementing a parallel emergency relief operation. As planned, significant transfer



                                                     - 12 -

of technology and knowledge took place during project implementation, studies and specific training
courses. Seminars on road maintenance and highway concessions were also organized by the SEOPC with
presentations from local and foreign experts, including the SEOPC and Bank project teams. Professionals
from the SEOPC team (and the private sector at their own cost) attended courses in Spain on Planning and
Programming of Highway Investments with the HDM-4, organized by Spanish highway institutions and the
Bank.

Pilots of comprehensive maintenance programs (which include all necessary maintenance activities) and of
routine maintenance by contract were successfully implemented in various road sections, and should serve
as useful models for future application to other parts of the road network. Technical audits were designed
and introduced, which would be expected to become standard requirements of the highway agency. A Road
Condition Survey was added at the end of the Project to collect data in the field concerning the condition of
about 2,000 km of the main road network and prepare a rehabilitation and maintenance program of the
roads surveyed, which should serve as a model for the SEOPC to prepare future programs.

In summary, the overall impact of the project on institutional development is positive, although below
original expectations.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The Project was approved by the Board on December 19, 1996 and the Loan Agreement was signed on
January 17, 1997. However, congressional approval was delayed and the Loan was not declared effective
until November 10, 1997, eleven months after Bank's approval.            As a result, the original project
implementation period was actually reduced to three years. The defeat of the governing party in the May
1998 congressional elections redirected all parties' attention towards short-term political considerations
aimed at ensuring victory in the 2000 presidential elections. This political impasse, together with the
change of government that resulted from the May 2000 elections, slowed down project implementation,
especially during the May-October 2000 transition period.

Considering the above factors, the Bank granted a first extension of the Loan Closing Date from December
31, 2001 to December 31, 2002. To facilitate the achievement of project objectives, two more extensions
were subsequently given, to January 31, 2003, and October 31, 2003. The second extension was only for
one month to facilitate the submission by the Borrower of evidence of compliance with the conditions
requested by the Bank for granting the third and final extension to October 31, 2003. The final extension
until October 31, 2003 was agreed primarily to allow the completion of the road and bridge components.
The road works were affected by a suspension of supplies of asphalt products during the January-April
2003 crisis in Venezuela, the only supplier at the moment, which paralyzed some major road works (the
suspension extended beyond April 2003, due to political problems that developed between the two
countries)*. A fourth extension requested by the Government to June 30, 2004, just to complete three
contracts - two under Loan Category 1 (Civil Works) and one under Loan Category 4 (Consultant's
Services and Training) - was not granted by the Bank, due to the prevailing political, fiscal and economic
conditions in the country.

_______________________________
*The Venezuelan President accused the Dominican Government of giving political asylum to a former Venezuelan
president and plotting to overthrow him.




                                                     - 13 -

In September 22, 1998, Hurricane Georges produced heavy rains and flooding that washed away many
roads and bridges and created tremendous loss of life. As a result, some of the project funds were
redirected for emergency works (reconstruction of 12 destroyed bridges).

In 2003, project implementation was also affected by the deteriorating economic and fiscal outlook of the
country.    There was a severe deterioration of macro-economic conditions in the last phase of
implementation, including poor economic performance, high inflation, and the exchange rate depreciation.
Economic growth slowed down significantly while the fiscal situation became more difficult. At the same
time, the Dominican peso lost more than half of its value vis-a-vis the dollar. Furthermore, a banking crisis
not only strained the government's treasury, but also created inflationary pressures. Moreover, the country
also experienced some political unrest.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The key factor subject to government control was provision of counterpart funds. Despite the commitment
given to the Project at appraisal, there was continuous lack of counterpart funding particularly in the
second half of project implementation. Lack of counterpart funding accumulated and became the key
factor of project implementation delays.

This, coupled with a continued expansion in the scope of subprojects, through adjustments to contracts,
caused delays in those contracts. As a result, three such contracts were only partly completed by the final
closing date. The enlargements in scope were mostly due to traffic growth and road deterioration higher
than anticipated, and to improvements in driving safety and comfort. These measures, although technically
correct, resulted in additional costs that could not be completely covered by the Loan. The Bank's no
objection to the expansion was conditioned to the commitment by the Government to finance the difference.
When the DR economy started to worsen, it was increasingly difficult for the SEOPC to get the funds when
required, and this was reflected in the slower than expected progress of the works. The lack of progress in
bringing counterpart funds in a par with the disbursement of Loan funds exacerbated the difficulties of
contracting firms in carrying out their activities, delaying their program of works and further increasing the
costs of the contracts, due to the adjustments to the relevant prices mandated by contractual clauses.
Cumbersome requirements by the Office of the Comptroller's General, only simplified at the very end of
project implementation, hindered the necessary flow of project funds, further complicating the issue of
management of relations with the different contractors and consultants.

The serious damages to the road network, particularly to some bridges, caused by Hurricane Georges in
September 1998, forced the Government to redirect resources from the Loan to the urgent reconstruction of
12 bridges, further increasing the demand for Loan and SEOPC resources.

A road maintenance fund to ensure maintenance financing beyond project implementation was not enacted
by Congress. A provisional measure, -requested by the Bank as a condition to grant the second / third
extension - to establish a Road Maintenance Account, administered by the SEOPC could not be
implemented due to legislation, enacted by Congress later on, leading to the creation of a Single Account
within the National Treasury for all government revenues. While congressional approval of the Road Fund
was necessary, the Government was not pro-active enough in submitting to Congress a proposal for
approval nor in following the recommendations of the Study prepared by the Bank's team (see Annex 7)
looking for financing alternatives and the implementation of adequate maintenance strategy and planning,
and solid management to meet the maintenance objectives.




                                                      - 14 -

Another factor under government control that negatively affected project implementation, particularly at
some of its stages, was the interference and lack of coordination of programs and projects carried out by
institutions outside the SEOPC - the Office of Supervision of State Works (Oficina Supervisora de Obras
del Estado (OSOE) - and between units inside the institution (DGTT, DGSFO and DGM, and the PCT).

Although the pilot concession contract was awarded following criteria of transparency and competitiveness
and later on approved by Congress, the Government never issued the corresponding presidential decree
awarding the contract and therefore, the concession contract was canceled. At the bottom of this decision,
was the discrepancy between the SEOPC (favorable to the concession) on one side and the OSOE,
reporting directly to the Presidency, and some presidential advisors (opposed to the concession) on the
other. A major reason for this discrepancy was that the OSOE itself wanted to implement the widening to
six lanes of the section of the Las Américas Highway between the Juan Carlos bridge and the access to the
International Airport (16 km), included in the concession contract. Despite the opposition by the SEOPC,
the OSOE went ahead with its plan and awarded the widening works in an opaque fashion with no
competition or public bidding. As a consequence, the concession contract was canceled and the Bank
withdrew its support to this activity. More than two years and a half later, the widening works had yet not
been completed and costs were much higher than initially estimated.

It should be noted that the OSOE was created more than 15 years ago under one of the Balaguer
administrations. The OSOE had its own funds, which allowed it to carry works of political or social
interest not included in the budget of any other government agency. In the past, the OSOE did not
intervene in the national highway network. However, during the project period, the OSOE got involved in
highways, took over some SEOPC actions and responsibilities and sometimes held opposite positions. This
had negative consequences for the Project, particularly concerning the works to be financed with loan
resources. (In addition to the case of the highway concession initiative, the widening of the Santo
Domingo-San Isidro section, mentioned above, was withdrawn from the Project by the SEOPC because it
was also started but not completed by the OSOE).

Once the concession contract was canceled, the SEOPC requested the Bank advice to find a replacement
that allowed resuming the agreement to finance with the Loan the section between bridges Duarte and Juan
Carlos. The Bank suggested an alternative with a high maintenance component to be included as part of
the Action Sustainability Plan (ASP). Following the advice, the Government chose the concession of the
corridor Santo Domingo-La Romana (about 120 km), which includes maintenance of the entire corridor
(the subject of several works financed by this and previous Bank loans) and widening of a part of it, the
section between San Pedro de Macorís and La Romana (about 37 km). This concession meets the
requirements of the ASP to improve highway maintenance in a sustainable way. The corresponding
contract was signed by the SEOPC and ratified by Congress and its implementation is underway.
Therefore, it was finally possible to finance with loan resources the four lanes of the 5.7 km of the Avenue
of the Américas between bridges Duarte and Juan Carlos, which was completed by project's end.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

This project was more complex and on larger scale than the previous ones. The changes in the scope of
many of the project components added more complexity to the implementation. These changes had
required more implementation support from the SEOPC, particularly concerning the sufficient allocation of
counterpart resources to finance the enlargement of subprojects, an to develop a strict and close supervision
of work contracts to comply with the agreed timetable. The hard competition for funds as a consequence of
the ambitious program to expand the road network capacity, implemented in parallel, was negative for the
Project, as its subprojects were sometimes a second priority with respect to other works of more political



                                                    - 15 -

impact.    Furthermore, the SEOPC did not follow up the lessons learned from the Comprehensive
Maintenance Program by Contract introduced by the Project as a pilot, and did not take advantage of those
lessons to prepare a similar program for the following years. Likewise, the SEOPC made little progress in
moving ahead with a credible program of outsourcing routine maintenance activities after the Project and
did not make the necessary efforts to promote and get approved the Road Fund or a similar financial
mechanism for maintenance.

On the other hand, a positive factor was the decision of the SEOPC to substantially keep and support the
same PCT than in the previous operation, trough a succession of several SEOPC's Secretaries of State
from different parties in the course of the Project. The General Coordinator, a senior official, interfaced
well with each incoming Secretary of State, even through the changes of government and of the party in
power. The PCT also kept excellent and highly efficient relations with the Bank team, which was reflected
in the additional project implementation capacity that was developed under the Project. On the technical
side, the PCT developed a smooth flow of information and communication necessary for efficient project
execution.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$122.5 million, including physical and price
contingencies. The Bank was expected to finance 70 percent of Components (a)(i), (a)(ii) and (a)(vi) (see
Section 3.1), 60 percent of Components (a)(iii) and (b), 50 percent of Components (a)(iv) and (a)(v), 90
percent of Component (c) and 80 percent of Component (d), or an average of 64 percent of the total project
cost.

As a result of the changes in the project components mentioned in Sections 3.4 and 4.2 the final total
project cost was US$180.91 million, out of which the Bank financed 30 percent of Component (a)(i), 52.1
percent of Component (a)(ii), 70 percent of Component (a)(vi), 46.8 percent of Component (a)(iii), 42.4
percent of Component (b), 50 percent of Components (a)(iv) and (a)(v), 90 percent of Component (c) and
79.2 percent of Component (d), or an average of 41.5 percent of the total project cost with the results
shown in Tables 5.1 (Project Final Cost) and last Table in Annex 2 (Project Financing by Component).


                            Table 5.1 Project Final Costs (US$ million equivalent)
                    Original                        Final Costs                       Counterp. Debt  Counterpart Debt
                   Contracts           Total         Counterpart           Loan           Total      Strict*   Other**
 Project Costs          122.50          180.91               105.91         75.00               2.7       1.4       1.3
*Counterpart funds according to the paripassu (US$47.5 million)
** Counterpart funds in excess, to finance expansion of contracts not financed by the loan


(a)(i) Highway Widening Component (expansion to 4 lanes). The final cost of this component was
US$75.79 million, or 360.9% of appraisal, which was financed by US$22.14 million from the Loan (an
increase of 35.9%) and US$53.65 million from the Government (an increase of 751.6%). The reason for
the increase was the higher technical standards of the works with respect to the initial design and the
inclusion of important urban works in the contracts, not financed by the Loan.

(a)(ii) Bridge and Bypass Construction Component. The final cost of this component was US$29.73
million, or 182.4% of appraisal, which was financed by US$15.49 million from the Loan (an increase of
9.65%) and US$14.24 million from the Government (an increase of 190.6%). The reason for the increase
was the higher technical standards of the works, the extension from 8.0 km to 13.2 km of the La Romana



                                                            - 16 -

by-pass to avoid a semi-urban growing populated area (see Table 5.2), and the inclusion of the
reconstruction of 12 bridges destroyed by Hurricane Georges. The Baní bridge, originally included in the
Project, was entirely financed by the Government and was completed during the first year of project
implementation.


                                   Table 5.2 (US$ million equivalent)
                                       Final Cost and Financing                                 Pending
                       Original     Total        Total        Total        Counterpart       Local      % of
                       Contract      Cost        Loan      Counterpart         Debt         Funds       Total
 Puente Río Dulce y        4.76       13.95          7.35          6.60            0.30         2.03       14.6
 Variante La
 Romana



(a)(iii) Road Reconstruction Component. The final cost of this component was US$33.50 million, or
118.4% of appraisal, which was financed by US$15.67 million from the Loan (a decrease of 7.8%) and
US$17.83 million from the Government (an increase of 59.6%). As mentioned before, the reason for the
increase was the higher technical standards of the works with respect to the initial design. Two of those
roads - C/Pajón-Don Juan-Doña María and Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de Boyá will be completed after
the closing date with local funds (see Table 5.3).        By contrast, the reconstruction of two roads
(Esperanza-Mao, 11 km and San Francisco-Tenares, 13 km), originally included in the Project, was
entirely financed by the Government and completed during the first year of project implementation.


                                   Table 5.3 (US$ million equivalent)
                                            Final Cost and Financing                                Pending
                            Original      Total       Total      Total        Counterpart      Local        % of
                            Contracts      Cost       Loan   Counterpart          Debt         Funds       Total
 C/Pajóm-Don Juan-Doña           7.16       11.04       5.38         5.66             0.28         1.80       16.3
 María y C/Rincón El Pino
 (completed)
 Boronga-Boya-Sabana             2.89        4.77       2.07         2.70             0.08         0.83       17.4
 Grande de Boya
 SUBTOTAL                       10.05       15.81       7.45         8.36             0.36         2.63       16.6



(a)(iv) and (a)(v) Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract Pilot Program including Resurfacing with
New Technologies and Routine Maintenance by Contract Pilot Program. These two components were
considered together and included in two different types of contracts: (i) three routine maintenance one-year
contracts (one for Autopista Duarte and two for the eastern zone); and (ii) three comprehensive
maintenance three-year contracts, each one corresponding to a different area in the country (Northwest,
Cibao and South). The final aggregate cost of these two components was US$21.72 million, or 98.2% of
appraisal, which was financed by US$10.9 million from the Loan and 10.9 million from the Government.

(a)(vi) Informative Signalization Component. The final cost of this component was US$0.43 million, or
43% of appraisal, which was financed by US$0.30 million from the Loan (43% of appraisal) and US$0.13
million from the Government (43% of appraisal). The reason for the decrease was that many of the signals
supposed to be financed by the Loan were installed through the new construction and reconstruction works
carried out by the Government within and outside the Project.



                                                   - 17 -

(b) Civil Work Supervision and Technical Auditing. The final cost of this component was US$13.92
million, or 217.96% of appraisal, which was financed by US$5.90 million from the Loan (155.3% of
appraisal) and US$8.02 million from the Government (308.5% of appraisal). The reason for the increase
was the enlargement of the civil work contracts and the longer period that took its implementation.

(c)Acquisition of goods. The final cost of this component was US$0.25 million, or 20% of appraisal,
which was financed by US$0.23 million from the Loan (20.9% of appraisal) and US$0.02 million from the
Government (20% of appraisal). The reason for the decrease was that many of the vehicles and office
equipment supposed to be financed by the Loan were financed under a parallel loan from IDB.

(d) Institutional Strengthening and Studies. The final cost of this component was US$5.57 million, or
139.3% of appraisal, which was financed by US$4.41 million from the Loan (an increase of 37.8%) and
US$1.16 million from the Government (an increase of 45.0%). The reason for the increase was the
inclusion in the program of the Road Condition Survey, the financing of the Accident Information System,
initially supposed to be financed by the NDF, and the expansion of the scope of other studies.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Under the political and economic conditions in the Dominican Republic at the project end, sustainability
remains uncertain. On one hand, the impact of the Project on the network with the road and bridge new
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance, and building of institutional capacity and technical expertise
financed by the Loan provide support for sustainability. On the other hand, scarcity of resources, among
other things, will make it difficult for the Government, particularly in the current difficult economic and
political environment, to guarantee continued budgetary or institutional support to maintain the new and
reconstructed infrastructure. In the case of SEOPC, the main problem lies in the lack of both a sustainable
financing mechanism for road maintenance and of an effective unit for road maintenance planning and
management. The failure to implement a road maintenance fund or similar financial mechanism, even in the
more modest version of a Road Maintenance Account, administered by the SEOPC, adds to uncertainty.

However, the funds allocated and spent in maintenance in 2003 roughly met the financing needs, estimated
by the Study prepared in 2002 by the Bank's supervision team in about RD$750 million -- US$25 million
at the time-- per annum. As a matter of fact, the 2003 SEOPC annual budget, implemented at about 94%
at the end of the year, included several road maintenance related activities that, if grouped and put together
under a maintenance program, based on the actual needs of the network and managed by a solid
management unit, could have met the maintenance objectives. Nevertheless, the resources were allocated
and awarded in an ad-hoc manner, lacking a solid maintenance strategy and planning, and an appropriate
procurement process.      The lack of    maintenance planning led to a distribution of resources among
maintenance activities that put more emphasis in some maintenance activities (road safety, periodic
maintenance) and neglected others (routine maintenance). The lack of a maintenance coordination unit for
the maintenance programs implemented by different SEOPC´s directorates led to interference and duplicity
that were negative for the implementation of those programs. In summary, the sustainability objective
could have been reached with the resources available in 2003 for maintenance with adequate planning and
satisfactory management. It is highly unlikely that all these factors will be corrected in the short term,
considering the current uncertain political and economic conditions of the DR.




                                                    - 18 -

The above mentioned Study also identified other sources of financing, the most relevant being revenues
generated from toll roads managed by the Government and not transferred to the private sector, which
could immediately generate roughly US$12.5 million per annum, about half the maintenance needs.
Additional maintenance financing could be generated by maintaining under public sector control some toll
booths to be installed in the next two years.

Another important aspect of sustainability is the institutional strengthening. In this area, the Project has
helped to take some steps towards developing institutional capacity and improving the SEOPC long term
organizational framework. However, the consolidation of institutional gains at the national and local levels
achieved under the Project faces an additional challenge in the absence of continued Bank support in the
road sector.

In summary, for the above reasons, it is difficult to accurately predict project sustainability in the medium
term. If forced now to choose among the possible ratings, we would use the more conservative unlikely
rating to characterize project sustainability. However, the elements (professionals, models, sources of
funds) are in place to compose a framework for sustainability. The only factor missing for now is the
political willingness to put all of them together and make them effective in a more favorable political and
economic environment. A new Bank operation could support this target, if the Government is strongly
committed to allocate sustainable resources (from toll revenues, for instance) to maintenance and to create
a solid and, to a certain extent, autonomous maintenance management unit.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

In the absence of a follow on project, the SEOPC will continue to carry out its maintenance activities for
the roads financed by the Loan through its DGMCCV, DGTT and DGSFO Directorates. This minimizes
the need for a special transition. However, at least in the short run, there will be no adequate coordination
and clear definition of responsibilities among those directorates. On the other hand, the Road Condition
Survey of about 2,000 km of the main road network, which was carried out at the end of the Project and the
rehabilitation and maintenance program of the roads surveyed that followed should serve as a model for the
SEOPC to prepare future maintenance and rehabilitation programs, therefore contributing to the longer
term sustainability of the Project, as lack of maintenance planning has been one of the main reasons for the
project uncertain sustainability.

Furthermore, collection and management of road tolls has been recently put under the full responsibility of
the Banco de Reservas (BDR), a bank owned by the Government. Part of the revenues will be used to
repay a long-standing debt of the SEOPC with BDR. An amount not yet determined could be allocated to
maintenance. If the proper amounts are allocated in line with maintenance needs, the charges collected
from users will contribute to the upkeep of road assets.

Finally, highway concessions to the private sector, already awarded by the SEOPC and some others to be
awarded in the future, will also contribute to sustain maintenance activities, but this shift to more private
sector involvement, together with the need to improve maintenance management in general, will require a
reorganization of the structure and legal framework of the SEOPC, responding to those new
responsibilities.




                                                     - 19 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in regard to lending is rated as highly satisfactory. The Project included a concrete and
detailed implementation framework and work schedule for the road components, the largest investment
component of the Project. The SAR listed road works by number of kilometers and the segments to be
rehabilitated or improved. This provided the SEOPC with guidance regarding the specific subprojects to
be developed, the prioritization of works, and implementation timing. Project preparation was also devoted
to a broad revision of the administrative, environmental, managerial and other aspects of the SEOPC
structure and, as a result, the Project included technical assistance to improve the related issues.

The Project also included the framework for an appropriate financing mechanism for sustainable road
maintenance.     Moreover, the SAR provided adequate direction to an implementation agency with
experience in executing Bank projects in the road sector. During project preparation, the SEOPC also had
input as to which rehabilitation and construction projects were to be undertaken and was to commit in
principle. There was also good coordination with the SEOPC during preparation, resulting in a project that
avoided duplication of efforts and fostered collaboration among the Borrower and the Bank. (See also
section 3.5).

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision is considered to be highly satisfactory. On average, the Bank fielded three supervision
missions per year. The earliest supervision missions were combined with the final missions for Loan
3350-DO. An important contribution to the successful supervision was the continuity of the Bank's project
task team (the task manager remained the same during the preparation and entire implementation period
and had also supervised the previous project), which allowed a positive dialogue with the SEOPC, timely
identification of issues and valuable assessment of project progress. It was also critical in guiding the
Project during implementation and overcoming early implementation difficulties.              In particular, the
supervision team demonstrated the ability to balance conflicting priorities within the country, thereby
avoiding possible problems.       Moreover, the supervision team took an active role assisting in the
management of road sector activities and also worked with the implementing unit in SEOPC to address the
issues as they emerged. In the last phase of implementation, the Bank team also prepared a Study to
analyze compliance with the project objectives and covenants, including recommendations to the SEOPC to
implement activities leading to the successful completion of the Project. Without the intensity of Bank
supervision, level of staff commitment and its dedication and flexibility in seeking solutions to keep the
Project viable and adapting to unforeseen circumstances, the Project performance could have been more
problematic.

In addition, the Bank served as an intermediary between the SEOPC and the Technical Secretariat of the
Presidency (Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia-STP) to assist in channeling counterpart funds for the
Project. To speed up disbursements, the Bank supervision team lowered disbursement limits for direct
payment of civil works from US$300,000 to US$50,000 during the last two years of the Project. This
change improved the flow of funds to the suppliers as well as the implementation of medium and
small-sized contracts. These actions helped to relieve some of the bottlenecks that effectively blocked
project implementation time.




                                                     - 20 -

Bank supervision was also extremely responsive and flexible in adapting the lending program to carry out
emergency works due to the effects of Hurricane Georges and was able to adjust the road and bridge
components to the urgent reconstruction of some infrastructure severely damaged or destroyed by the
hurricane. It also provided valuable advice to the SEOPC concerning the highway concession pilot project
and its replacement.

Furthermore, an amendment to the Loan Agreement dated December 5, 2001 made the following
modifications: (i) required the preparation of an action plan listing the remaining project activities and
timetable for carrying out these activities from the date specified; (b) authorized the extension of the project
closing date from December, 31 2001 to December, 31 2002; (iii) required the Borrower to carry out the
project in accordance with the Highway Investment and Maintenance Programs, the Institutional
Development Program, the Environmental Manual and the Action Plan, with due regard to the Performance
Monitoring Indicators; and (iv) required the Borrower to allocate in its annual budgets the minimum
counterpart funds necessary for project implementation. In December 2003, the closing date was extended
again to October, 31 2003.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In general, Bank performance is considered to be highly satisfactory as the lending program was designed
to meet the extensive needs in the sector and the supervision team took an active role in implementing the
Project. Specifically, the Bank supervision team overcame critical administrative bottlenecks and placed
great emphasis on institutional development. Bank supervision was also highly responsive in meeting
emergency needs in the sector caused by Hurricane Georges in 1998. However, the Bank could have
helped more to complete the development components (civil works), had it granted the fourth extension of
the closing date, once it was recognized that three civil works would need about eight additional months to
be completed. Disbursement pace was uneven and relatively slow throughout the life of the Project,
particularly in its second half, despite the Bank endeavor to facilitate disbursements -- by lowering the
threshold for direct disbursements, first from US$300,000 to US$150,000 and then to US$50,000.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during preparation was highly satisfactory.            The Government, by way of the
SEOPC and the STP, was very active in supporting project preparation. The implementing agency, at the
same time, worked closely with the Bank, to identify road reconstruction, improvement and maintenance
needs and define the overall project program. Much of the credit must go to the good relationship with the
Bank's team, which allowed a productive dialogue and enhanced collaboration between the two sides. One
contributing factor was the continuity of the SEOPC's General Project Coordinator and his support team
from previous projects.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory. Although relatively outside its control,
the Government could have taken a more proactive and conciliatory stance to solve the political impasse in
Congress and expedite project approval. More critically, despite its professed commitment to the Project,
the Government did not take sufficient interest in ensuring that the effectiveness conditions of the Loan
would be met on a timely manner. There were extensive difficulties in providing counterpart funds. The
Government did not take the necessary steps to ensure that counterpart funds would be available when
needed. Furthermore, the often continued expansion of the scope of civil works, through adjustments to



                                                     - 21 -

contracts, caused some of those contracts to be only partly completed at the closing date. Cumbersome
internal procedures to complete the payment process to contractors and consultants were also a reason for
delays. These procedures were only simplified at the end of the Project. In addition, there were a number
of critical delays in preparing the framework of the maintenance fund, which precluded its consideration by
the Congress during the implementation period.

Finally, the Government was unable or unwilling to put an end to the interference and lack of coordination
of programs and projects among institutions outside the SEOPC (the OAOE) and between units inside the
SEOPC (DGTT, DGSFO and DGM, and the PCT), particularly concerning the highway concession pilot
and maintenance activities by contract, which negatively affected project implementation, particularly at
some of its stages.

On the other hand, the Government provided enough support to the project coordination team and ensured
continuity of its staff ­ a critical factor to maintain and improve the project implementation pace.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agency (SEOPC) is rated as marginally satisfactory. At the start, the SEOPC showed
great commitment to the Project and most of the institutional components were initiated and several of them
completed (environment, transport plan, financial management) during the first half of implementation.
Likewise, most of the civil work contracts were awarded and started in that period. However, starting in
2000, when the ambitious program of road capacity expansion began and the scope of many of the project
components was enlarged, the SEOPC support to some project components started to decline, particularly
concerning the sufficient allocation of counterpart resources. Furthermore, there was no strict and close
supervision by the SEOPC of work contracts to comply with the agreed timetable. The SEOPC did not
follow up the lessons learned from the Comprehensive Maintenance Program by Contract to prepare a
similar program for the following years nor did it make progress towards establishing a credible program of
outsourcing routine maintenance activities after the Project. Likewise, the SEOPC did not make worthy
efforts to promote and get approved the Road Fund or a similar financial mechanism for maintenance. On
the other hand, the commitment of the PCT, which was kept without substantial changes, remained strong
throughout the project life.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


In general, borrower performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

8.1. Operational

Delays in effectiveness and possible consequences: One negative element in the implementation of this
operation in particular, and in all projects with external financing in the Dominican Republic, is the delay
in the date of project effectiveness, due to the extremely slow process in Congress to ratify the loan
agreements. In the case of this Project it took almost ten months from the date of signature. These delays
take a particular toll in projects that entail major rehabilitation and maintenance programs, because as time
passes, the roads continue to deteriorate and the work initially planned is not longer adequate. This leads to
higher costs and lower returns on investments. The lesson learned is that either the Borrower streamlines
its ratification process or future projects should take into account the average delay in effectiveness in the



                                                        - 22 -

design of the rehabilitation and maintenance works. A positive step in the right direction has been the
agreement reached with the Bank, during the last Country Portfolio Performance Review, to establish a
closer link between the Executive (via the STP) and Congress, to sensitize the latter on the objectives of
externally-funded projects, as well as on the need to guarantee their prompt implementation.

Changes in the scope of project components: If despite the provision to accelerate project effectiveness
and to use conservative criteria for engineering design, some project components require modifications that
by far cannot be financed by the loan, those changes should be carefully considered before authorizing them
under the project, even if the past experience in the country, concerning payment with local funds of the
modifications, is positive (as in this case). An option to consider should be restructuring the project
programs to accommodate the changes to the project resources.

Routine Maintenance Contracts: With respect to Routine Maintenance by Contract, the lesson of the
Project is that big and medium size contractors are not interested in routine maintenance contracts.
Therefore, this type of contracts should be tailored to smaller contractors, which should show greater
interest and effectiveness in executing them, with short lengths of the road network and contract periods (so
that contracts would be smaller than US$250,000 and awarded based on price quotations).

8.2 Legal

Counterpart Funds:       Lack of counterpart funds is an endemic problem in the DR and many other
countries. However, in none of the previous projects financed by the Bank in the DR the problem was so
acute as in this operation. It was exacerbated by the changes to the contracts explained above, and finally
by the deterioration of the economic and fiscal conditions of the country in the last period of project
implementation. As the deficit in counterpart funding accumulated, the problem became increasingly
difficult, contributing to implementation delays. To prevent this, in addition to the clauses usually included
in other agreements, this Loan Agreement included a clause requesting the Government to open and
maintain an account in a bank acceptable to the Bank to deposit the counterpart funds with an initial
deposit of the equivalent in Dominican Pesos to US$1,500,000. The Government initially complied with
this condition, but later on the balance was never kept in compliance, particularly when the economic
conditions deteriorated. Future projects should take into account the experience with this Project in order
to ensure that counterpart funds will be available when needed, adjusting the paripassu to the level that the
country can afford, even if this mean to reduce the scope of the project. Likewise legal provisions should
be established to automatically suspend disbursements when the lag in counterpart funding reaches a
predetermined level.

Maintenance Financing and Management: Lessons here are that compliance with covenants that requires
approval of Congress or similar institutions is difficult to achieve and should be replaced by covenants
more modest in scope, but easier to comply with and/or specific conditions for appraisal. In this sense,
future road projects in the DR should focus in financing mechanisms not requiring congressional approval,
initially funded by the project, and require, at the same time, the establishment of a solid maintenance
management unit and the implementation of appropriate maintenance planning in the way initiated with the
road condition survey contract, implemented in the last months of the Project.

Adequate Coordination among the Institutions involved in Project Implementation: The discrepancy on
the initial pilot highway concession project between the SEOPC (favorable to the concession) and the
OSOE and some presidential advisors (opposed to the concession) led to the cancellation of the concession
contract after its awarding and signature and even its approval by Congress.               Likewise, lack of
coordination among some departments of the SEOPC, mainly concerning periodic maintenance and road


                                                    - 23 -

safety activities by contract, led to duplicities that required some changes in the programs contracted out
under the comprehensive maintenance program financed by the Loan.

To avoid these problems, the projects should clearly establish the responsibilities, concerning project
implementation, of the different institutions of the Government and the departments inside the implementing
agency (as in this Project) including provisions in the loan agreements to remedy possible noncompliance
with the agreed responsibilities, particularly if it negatively affects project implementation. In the most
serious cases, noncompliance could lead to the cancellation of the part of the Loan financing the
components affected by interference and duplicities.

8.3 Institutional

Maintaining Continuity in the Implementation Team: Throughout most of the project implementation
period, the composition of the Bank supervision team remained relatively unchanged, with the same task
manager during the entire life of the Project, from preparation to closing, despite a number of
reorganizations within the Bank. Maintaining continuity was an important factor in enabling the Bank to
build relationships with the Borrower over the long-term. Both parties pursued the same objectives and
discussed the project goals, problems and changes with flexibility and willingness to examine workable
alternatives. This allowed for the comprehensive identification of Borrower needs as well as the resolution
of implementation difficulties.     Stability during supervision was also instrumental in designing and
implementing technical assistance activities to strengthen institutional capacity at the national level. Finally,
maintaining continuity permitted the Bank to properly identify and prepare a fast response to the damage
caused to the road infrastructure by Hurricane Georges in 1998.            One contributing factor was the
continuity, not only of the Bank's task manager, but of the SEOPC´s General Coordinator and his
supporting team (the PCT).


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Main comments given by the implementing agency, SEOPC, are presented below.                   A more detailed
discussion is included in the Borrower's Project Completion Report (Annex 8).

Achievement of Project Objectives
The Borrower considers that the Project as a whole had a positive impact regarding mainly the development
objective, which was satisfactorily reached. Concerning the sustainability objective, the Borrower considers
that the results were mixed, with some related activities fully accomplished, but with the failure in
implementing the Road Fund and Agency.

Performance of the Government and Implementing Agencies
The Borrower considers that in general the SEOPC performed well. However, they acknowledged that
some of the project implementation delays could have been avoided streamlining bureaucratic procedures
(i.e, evaluation of proposals, negotiation and signing of contracts, internal process for payments to
contractors and consultants, etc.) and ensuring an adequate flow of project funds and availability of
counterpart funds.




                                                      - 24 -

Bank Performance
The Borrower's report expresses great satisfaction with Bank performance during project preparation and
supervision. They appreciated the guidance given during project implementation and highlighted the
flexibility and willingness of the Bank team to discuss workable alternatives to the implementation
problems and to find solutions to solve them.


(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Road Condition (See *Table 1 below)             Road Condition (See Table A1.1 below)        Road Condition (See Table A1.1 below)

Progress on routine maintenance by contract                        80                                         95
(2003)

Planned, allocated and spent resources for                      100                                           94 (2003)
maintenance

Funds committed (%)                                                98                                        100

Funds disbursed (%)                                                90                                        100

Infrastructure rehabilitated / reconstructed to Most physical work targets had been met by   Works targets met, although three works will
improved hazard-resistant standards             October 2003, and infrastructure was         be completed after the loan closing date
                                                rehabilitated utilizing improved standards.

Congestion in key sections reduced              Average speed increased to 75 km/h and       Average speed increased to 75 km/h and
                                                above, except in the three roads not yet     above in the roads improved.
                                                completed
Safety improved in the roads financed                             NA                                          NA

Vehicle operation costs (VOC) reduced                             NA                         VOC reduced, as an average, from 0.33 to
                                                                                             0.22 US$

Technical capacity and knowledge in             Studies and technical assistance related to  Studies and technical assistance related to
financial management and environmental          financial management and environmental       financial management and environmental
assessment                                      assessments completed by the project         assessments completed by the project
                                                mid-term. Environmental Manual prepared      mid-term. Environmental Manual prepared
                                                and implemented                              and implemented

Highway Maintenance management included Technical assistance completed. Road                 Road Survey and the preparation of a
                                                survey in progress at the end of the Project Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program in
                                                                                             2,000 km of the main network completed

Average Annual Daily Traffic                    NA                                           (See *Table A1.3 below)




                                                                     - 26 -

                                           *Table A1.1
                          Condition of the Road Network (1995-2001-2003)
                                  1995                2001              2003
                                                     (SAR)             Actual
    Paved Network                   3831      100%     4240                4240
   Good Condition                   3110      81%      4240      100%      4028   95%
   Poor Condition                    721      19%         0        0%       212    5%

   Total Network                    5053      100%     5167                5167
   Good Condition                   3477      69%      4607      89%       4289   83%
    Poor Condition                  1576      31%       560      11%        878   17%




                                            *Table A1.2
                                   Average Annual Daily Traffic
                                                2001       2001                  Actual
          Road Section 2001                   Ex-ante     Ex-post   Actual 2001  2003
                                              Estimate   Estimate   per Estimate
Santiago-Navarrete                              11,825     17,580         1.5     22,757
Ampliación Avenida las Américas                   N.A.     40,000                 47,330
San Pedro de Macorís Bypass                     12,127     14,180         1.2     14,180
La Romana Bypass                                 5,359      8,700         1.6      8,700
C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña Maria                    619        929         1.5        929
Romana-C/Pintao                                  2,474      3,607         1.5      1,692
C/Pintao-Higuey                                    541      1,909         3.5      2,051
Boronga-Boya-Sabana Grande de Boya                 510        836         1.6        333
Acceso a Refineria ­ Refinería                   5,679      5,678         1.0      5,890
Rincón - El Pino                                 4,221      4,220         1.0      2,095
Otra Banda ­ Bavaro                               N.A.      2,761                  3,793
Average                                                                   1.6




                                              - 27 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Highway Widening (Four Divided Lanes,   23.5 km widened (Santiago-Navarrete, 17.80 23.5 km widened (Santiago-Navarrete, 17.80
28.3 km)                                    km and Avenida Las Americas 5.7 km) with     km and Avenida Las Americas 5.7 km).
                                            two marginal roads of two lanes each.        Section Boca Chica-San Pedro de Macoris
                                                                                         (Autovia del Este), 37 km, widened with local
                                                                                         funds.


(b) Bridge (3) and Highway By-pass          13 new bridges (1 over the Dulce River -not  13 new bridges (1 over the Dulce River -not
Construction (2)                            yet completed and 12 replacing the ones      yet completed and 12 replacing the ones
                                            destroyed by Hurricane Georges), 1 bridge    destroyed by Hurricane Georges), 1 bridge
                                            rehabilitated (over the Higuamo River) and 2 rehabilitated (over the Higuamo River) and 2
                                            by-passes, San Pedro de Macoris and La       by-passes, San Pedro de Macoris,
                                            Romana)                                      completed, and La Romana, being completed
                                                                                         with local funds.


(c) Highway Rehabilitation (169 km)         124.50 km of roads reconstructed at higher   123.95 km of roads reconstructed at higher
                                            standards than planned and 28.50 km under standards than planned (out of which 37.20
                                            construction                                 km are being completed with local funds).
                                                                                         Additional 24 km reconstructed by the
                                                                                         Government only with local funds


(d) Pilot three-year Program of             Pilot Program completed in 638.50 km of      Pilot Program completed in 630.50 km of
Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract       comprehensive maintenance and 28 km          comprehensive maintenance and 20 km
including Highway Resurfacing Using New     additional of resurfacing with new           additional of resurfacing with new
Technologies (628 km)                       technologies)                                technologies)


e) Pilot four-year Program of Routine       Pilot Program completed in 370 km.           Pilot Program completed in 370 km.
Maintenance by Contract (640 km)            Additional routine maintenance in 638.50 km Additional routine maintenance in 630.50 km
                                            was carried out under the comprehensive      was carried out under the comprehensive
                                            maintenance program above                    maintenance program above


(f) Road Signalization by Contract          Completed                                    Completed. In addition, all civil works above
                                                                                         included signalization


(g) Supervision and Technical Auditing of   Completed. Exceeded the amount in the        Completed.
Civil Works Applied to Components (a), (b)  loan, due to the extension of the contracts.
and (c)                                     The excess was financed with local funds.


(h) Vehicles, Spare Parts and Office        Only some vehicles and office equipment      Only some vehicles and office equipment
Equipment                                   were acquired under the loan                 were acquired under the Loan. Other
                                                                                         vehicles were purchased under an IDB loan


(i) Institutional Strengthening and Studies Consulting services completed including a    Consulting services completed, including the
                                            Road Survey to prepare a Rehabilitation an   Road Survey and the preparation of a
                                            Maintenance Program in 2,000 km. This was Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program in
                                            underway at the end of the Project.          2,000 km of the main network.

1End of project




                                                               - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                      US$ million  US$ million
Civil Works                                               21.00         75.79          360.9
(a) Highway Widening (Four Divided Lanes, 28.3 km)

(b) Bridge (3) and Highway By-pass Construction (2)       16.30         29.73         182.39

(c) Highway Rehabilitation (169 km)                       28.30         33.50         118.37

(d) Pilot three-year Program of Comprehensive             16.80         20.20          120.4
Maintenance by Contract including Highway Resurfacing
Using New Technologies (628 km)

e) Pilot four-year Program of Routine Maintenance by       5.40           1.52          28.2
Contract (640 km)

(f) Road Signalization by Contract                         1.00           0.43         42.85

Civil Work Supervision                                     6.40         13.92         217.96
(g) Supervision and Technical Auditing of Civil Works
    Applied to Components (a), (b) and (c)

Goods                                                      1.20           0.25            20
(h) Vehicles, Spare Parts and Office Equipment

Consulting Services                                        4.00           5.57         139.3
(i) Institutional Strengthening and Studies
(ii) Nordic Fund Financing                                 2.80           0.00             0

Total Baseline Cost                                      103.20        180.91
 Physical Contingencies                                    8.30
 Price Contingencies                                      11.00
                           Total Project Costs           122.50        180.91
                    Total Financing Required             122.50        180.91




                                                - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               80.10             24.70               8.80             0.00             113.60
                                      (52.80)           (12.30)             (5.10)           (0.00)            (70.20)
2. Goods                               0.80               0.00               0.60             0.00              1.40
                                      (0.70)             (0.00)             (0.50)           (0.00)             (1.20)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               4.50             3.00              7.50
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (3.60)           (0.00)             (3.60)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                               80.90             24.70              13.90             3.00             122.50
                                      (53.50)           (12.30)             (9.20)           (0.00)            (75.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              165.32              1.12              8.65             0.00             175.09
                                      (64.85)            (0.56)            (4.95)            (0.00)           (70.36)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.09              0.16             0.00              0.25
                                      (0.00)             (0.08)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.23)
3. Services                            1.99               0.00              3.58             0.00              5.57
                                      (1.59)             (0.00)            (2.82)            (0.00)           (4.41)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                              167.31              1.21             12.39             0.00             180.91
                                      (66.44)            (0.64)            (7.92)            (0.00)           (75.00)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 30 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
         Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
(a) Highway Widening        14.70     6.30                22.14      53.65             150.6  851.6
(Four Divided Lanes, 28.3
km)

(b) Bridge (3) and Highway  11.40     4.90                15.49      14.24             135.9  290.6
By-pass Construction (2)

(c) Highway Rehabilitation  17.00     11.30               15.67      17.83             92.2   157.8
(169 km)

(d) Pilot three-year         8.40     8.40                10.10      10.10             120.2  120.2
Program of Comprehensive
Maintenance by Contract
including Highway
Resurfacing Using New
Technologies (628 km)

e) Pilot four-year Program   2.70     2.70                 0.76       0.76             28.1    28.1
of Routine Maintenance by
Contract by Contract (640
km)


(f) Road Signalization by    0.70     0.30                 0.30       0.13             42.9    43.3
Contract


(g) Supervision and          3.80     2.60                 5.90       8.02             155.3  308.5
Technical Auditing of Civil
Works Applied to
Components (a), (b) and (c)


(h) Vehicles, Spare Parts    1.10     0.10                 0.23       0.02             20.9    20.0
and Office Equipment


(i) Institutional            3.20     0.80                 4.41       1.16             137.8  145.0
Strengthening and Studies
(j) Unallocated             12.00     0.00                 0.00       0.00             0.0     0.0




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The ex-ante economic evaluation was done using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDM-III) that evaluated the road widening, bypass construction and the highway reconstruction and
resurfacing programs, which yielded a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$99.3 million and an overall Internal
Rate of Return (IRR) of 24.5 percent. The ex-post economic evaluation was done using the Highway
Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which is the new version of the HDM-III model, for the
road projects implemented under the project. Some projects planned at appraisal (Santo Domingo ­ San
Isidro and Bajos de Haina ­ Refinería widening, Baní access, and Esperanza ­ Mao, San Francisco ­
Tenares and Boya ­ Dona Maria reconstructions) were not implemented under the project; therefore, were
not submitted to an ex-post evaluation. During project implementation, the scope of most of the works
changed from necessary surface distress repair to full rehabilitation and reconstruction, due to
higher-than-estimated traffic growth on the main roads and faster than expected road deterioration. The
ex-post HDM-4 evaluation considered: (i) actual costs; (ii) actual traffic; (iii) actual timing and duration of
road works; and (iv) 20 years evaluation period and 12 percent discount rate.

Road Works

The ex-post study evaluated eleven projects, comprising 203.3 km, which required an investment of US$
132.10 million, representing 85% of the project costs for civil works of new construction, widening,
bridges, reconstruction and maintenance of highways. Table A3.1 below presents the road works evaluated
at the ex-post study.



                                               Table A3.1
                                   Road Works Evaluated at the Ex-Post Study
                                                               Existing Road                         Bypass
                                                  Road        Road         Road       Traffic    Road     Traffic
 Section              Road Section               Length     Roughness     Width        2001      Length    2001
 Number                                           (km)         (IRI)        (m)      (AADT)       (km)     (vpd)
     1    Santiago-Navarrete                         17.8          3.5          7.0    17,580
     2    Ampliación Avenida las Américas             5.7          4.5        14.0     60,000
     3    San Pedro de Macorís Bypass                18.0          2.5        15.0     14,180       12.3    8,508
     4    La Romana Bypass                           17.4          3.0          7.0      8,700      13.2    5,220
     5    C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña María            28.4          7.0          7.0        929
     6    Romana-C/Pintao                            35.7          4.9          7.3      3,607
     7    C/Pintao-Higuey                            28.8          5.9          6.6      1,909
     8    Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de Boyá         17.2          8.3          6.0        836
     9    Acceso a Refinería - Refinería              3.9          4.5          4.2      5,678
    10    Rincón - El Pino                           10.4          5.4          6.0      4,220
    11    Otra Banda - Bávaro                        20.0          3.5          8.5      2,761
  Total                                             203.3




                                                  - 32 -

All widening, bypass and reconstruction projects were evaluated, as well as a sample periodic maintenance
project (Otra Banda ­ Bavaro). Table A3.2 below shows the investment costs, in 2001 US Dollars.



                                                Table A3.2
                                Road Works Evaluated at the Ex-Post Study
                                                                                 Project        Project
 Section               Road Section                        Road Work           Investment     Investment
 Number                                                                         (US$ M)      (000US$/km)
    1     Santiago-Navarrete                      Widening 2 to 4 lanes              41.88         2,353
    2     Ampliación Avenida las Américas         Widening 4 to 8 lanes              33.91         5,928
    3     San Pedro de Macorís Bypass             Bypass and Bridges                   9.08          738
    4     La Romana Bypass                        Bypass and Bridges                 13.13           995
    5     C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña María         Reconstruction 50/250/250            9.11          321
    6     Romana-C/Pintao                         Reconstruction 50/200                9.46          265
    7     C/Pintao-Higuey                         Reconstruction 114/200               6.52          226
    8     Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de Boyá      Reconstruction 50/250/250            5.74          334
    9     Acceso a Refinería - Refinería          Reconstruction 100/350/300           0.88          226
    10    Rincón - El Pino                        Reconstruction 75/250/250            1.79          172
    11    Otra Banda - Bávaro                     Overlay 50 mm                        0.60            30
           Total                                                                    132.10           650
Reconstruction Thickness, mm: AC Surface/Base/Subbase Costs in 2001 US Dollars



The investments represent actual expenditures on each project. Table A3.3 presents the resulting average
unit road works costs for different work types. On the ex-ante evaluation, the estimated average
reconstruction unit costs was 242,500 US$ per km, expressed in 2001 US Dollars, which indicates that the
actual reconstruction costs are 6 percent higher than the average costs assumed on the ex-ante evaluation.



                                                Table A3.3
                                       Average Actual Unit Road Works
                                                                      Number         Cost         Cost
      Work Class               Predominant Work Activity              Projects    (US$/km)      (US$/m2)
 Periodic Maintenance    Overlay 50 mm                                   1           30,000            4.3
 Reconstruction          Reconstruction Asphalt Concrete                 6          257,271          36.8
 Bypass                  Bypass and Bridges                              2          866,454          N.A.
 Costs in 2001 US Dollars




                                                   - 33 -

Table A3.4 below presents the estimated at appraisal, contract and actual costs, per km, expressed in 2001
US Dollars, and the ratios between the actual per estimated costs and between the actual per contract costs.
The average actual per estimated ratio is 1.3 indicating that the actual costs, on average, increased in real
terms around 30 percent above the estimated costs. The average actual per contract ratio is 1.8 indicating
that the actual costs, on average, increased in real terms around 80 percent above the contract costs.

                                                  Table A3.4
                          Estimated, Contract and Actual Unit Cost for Road Works
                                          Estimated        Contract      Actual       Actual      Actual
 Road Section                                 Cost           Cost         Cost         per          per
                                         (M US$/km) (M US$/km) (M US$/km) Estimated              Contract
 Santiago-Navarrete                             0.885          0.670        2.353          2.7         3.5
 Ampliación Avenida las Américas                 N.A.          3.600        5.928                      1.6
 San Pedro de Macorís Bypass                    0.782          0.370        0.738          0.9         2.0
 La Romana Bypass                               0.791          0.460        0.995          1.3         2.2
 C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña María                0.326          0.360        0.321          1.0         0.9
 Romana-C/Pintao                                0.140          0.120        0.265          1.9         2.2
 C/Pintao-Higuey                                0.171          0.140        0.226          1.3         1.6
 Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de Boyá             0.223          0.090        0.334          1.5         3.7
 Acceso a Refinería - Refinería                 0.377          0.220        0.226          0.6         1.0
 Rincón - El Pino                               0.217          0.360        0.172          0.8         0.5
 Otra Banda - Bávaro                             N.A.          0.040        0.030                      0.8
 Average                                                                                   1.3         1.8



Table A3.5 below presents the ratio of actual execution time per expected execution time when the contract
was signed, showing that all projects exceeded the expected execution time. The average ratio is 2.30
indicating that, on average, road works to be completed took around two times the expected time. At the
signature of the contracts, it was expected that the works would be done, on average, in around 17 months
but the average actual execution time was 39 months.

                                                  Table A3.5
                                     Actual and Contract Execution Time
                                                       Contract         Actual               Actual
 Road Section                                            Time            Time                  per
                                                       (months)        (months)             Contract
 Santiago-Navarrete                                            24               30                     1.3
 Ampliación Avenida las Américas                               20               55                     2.8
 San Pedro de Macorís Bypass                                   24               36                     1.5
 La Romana Bypass                                              18               43                     2.4
 C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña María                               18               64                     3.6
 Romana-C/Pintao                                               18               60                     3.3
 C/Pintao-Higuey                                               14               21                     1.5
 Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de Boyá                            18               62                     3.4
 Acceso a Refinería - Refinería                                 6               19                     3.2
 Rincón - El Pino                                              18               30                     1.7
 Otra Banda - Bávaro                                            6                6                     1.0
 Average                                                       17               39                     2.3




                                                      - 34 -

Originally the scope of works planned for each road were designed to provide a minimum desired level of
service, but during the execution of the road works, it was determined that there were enough project
resources to perform works that would increase the level of service of each road. Therefore, the changes on
the scope of works partially explain the cost increases and the increase on the execution times.

Traffic

Table A3.6 below presents, for each road section, the estimate of the actual annual average daily traffic
(AADT) in 2001 and the vehicle composition. These estimates are based on traffic counts and engineering
inferences. The average daily traffic is 10,945 AADT, varying from around 800 to 60,000 AADT. The
study found that the average vehicle fleet composition is a) 29% cars, b) 37% pickups, c) 1% buses, d) 9%
light trucks, e) 10% medium trucks, f) 7% heavy trucks, and g) 5% articulated trucks.


                                                 Table A3.6
                               Average Annual Daily Traffic Composition in 2001
  Road Section                           Total                           Light Medium Heavy Articulated
                                        Traffic   Cars Pickups Bus Truck Truck            Truck   Truck
                                       (AADT)     (%)     (%)      (%)    (%)     (%)       (%)    (%)
  Santiago-Navarrete                    17,580     32%     32%      2%     9%      12%       8%       5%

  Ampliación Avenida las Américas       60,000     43%     32%      0%     8%       4%       3%        3%

  San Pedro de Macorís Bypass           14,180     31%     31%      2%    13%      15%       3%       6%

  La Romana Bypass                       8,700     31%     31%      2%    13%      15%       3%       6%

  C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña María          929     11%     41%      0%     4%      18%      21%       4%

  Romana-C/Pintao                        3,607     28%     36%      1%    12%      13%       3%       7%

  C/Pintao-Higuey                        1,909     35%     24%      2%     8%      12%       6%      13%

  Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de            836     22%     66%      1%     3%       6%       2%       1%
  Boyá
  Acceso a Refinería - Refinería         5,678     35%     31%      0%    10%       4%      15%       6%

  Rincón - El Pino                       4,220     47%     30%      1%     6%       3%      11%       2%

  Otra Banda - Bávaro                    2,761     10%     52%      5%    13%      12%       3%       5%

  Average                               10,945    29%     37%       1%     9%      10%       7%       5%




                                                    - 35 -

Tables A3.7 and A3.8 below presents a comparison between the estimated actual daily traffic in 2001 and
the ex-ante estimates, which shows that on average the actual traffic is 60 percent higher than the appraisal
estimates.

                                                 Table A3.7
                                   Average Annual Daily Traffic in 2001
                                                                 2001            2001             Actual
 Road Section                                                   Ex-ante         Ex-post            per
                                                                Estimate        Actual          Estimate
 Santiago-Navarrete                                                 11,825         17,580               1.5
 Ampliación Avenida las Américas                                     N.A.          60,000
 San Pedro de Macorís Bypass                                        12,127         14,180               1.2
 La Romana Bypass                                                    5,359           8,700              1.6
 C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña María                                       619             929              1.5
 Romana-C/Pintao                                                     2,474           3,607              1.5
 C/Pintao-Higuey                                                       541           1,909              3.5
 Boronga-Boyá-Sabana Grande de Boyá                                    510             836              1.6
 Acceso a Refinería - Refinería                                      5,679           5,678              1.0
 Rincón - El Pino                                                    4,221           4,220              1.0
 Otra Banda - Bávaro                                                 N.A.            2,761
 Average                                                                                                1.6



                                                 Table A3.8
                            Estimated Average Annual Daily Traffic on Bypasses
                                                                                                  Actual
 Road Section                                                   Ex-ante         Ex-post            per
                                                               Estimate         Actual          Estimate
 San Pedro de Macorís Bypass                                        3,595            8,508              2.4
 La Romana Bypass                                                   2,154            5,220              2.4
 Average                                                                                                2.4



Economic Evaluation

The HDM-4 Model estimated the net benefits of each project in terms of reduction of vehicle operating
costs, passenger time costs and road maintenance expenditures, which occurs after periodic maintenance or
rehabilitation works. The following table presents ex-ante and ex­post economic evaluations results,
presenting for each project, the Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and the
corresponding ratios of the ex-post results per ex-ante results.

Table A3.9 shows that, with the exception of the Boronga-Boya-Sabana Grande de Boya section, all
projects are economically justified, under the ex-ante or ex-post scenarios, with rates of return higher than
12 percent. The Boronga-Boya-Sabana Grande de Boya section has an ex-post economic rate of return of
7 percent, due to the high actual project costs and low traffic. For the eleven projects, the overall ex-post
IRR is 22.3 percent corresponding to a total NPV of US$ 81.94 million.




                                                    - 36 -

                                        Table A3.9
                                   Economic Evaluation Results

                                    Net Present Value (Million US$)   Internal Rate of Return (%)

                                     Ex-ante     Ex-post    Ex-post Ex-ante     Ex-post    Ex-post
Road Section                        Evaluation Evaluation    Ratio  Evaluation Evaluation   Ratio
Santiago-Navarrete                      9.73        7.24       0.74   18.6%      15.5%         0.83
Ampliación Avenida Las Américas         N.A.       24.12                N.A.     26.4%
San Pedro de Macorís Bypass             1.92       21.67     11.30    15.5%      39.9%         2.57
La Romana Bypass                        3.13        3.32       1.06   20.1%      16.4%         0.82
C/Pajón - Don Juan - Doña María         1.70        1.54       0.91   17.1%      14.9%         0.87
Romana - C/Pintao                      13.22       11.64       0.88   37.8%      33.5%         0.89
C/Pintao - Higuey                       1.13        3.33       2.95   16.1%      23.3%         1.45
Boronga-Boya-Sabana Grande de Boya      3.84       -1.42     -0.37    15.6%       6.7%         0.43
Acceso a Refineria - Refineria          0.57        3.51       6.22   82.4%      64.2%         0.78
Rincon - El Pino                        7.01        5.11       0.73   46.0%      52.0%         1.13
Otra Banda - Bavaro                     N.A.        1.87                N.A.     44.5%
Average                                                        2.71                            1.09
Total                                              81.94                        22.3%




                                            - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/1996                   5    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             SPEC IN ECONOMIC
                                             ANALISIS (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1)

              06/1997                   1    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1)

              09/1997                   5    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (2); ECOLOGIST
                                             (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1); SPEC. IN ECONOMIC
                                             ANALYSIS (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/1996                   5    TASK
                                             MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (3);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)

 Supervision

              04/11/1997                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S

              09/04/1997                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               U

              12/11/1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

              03/28/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S

              04/30/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S

              09/27/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S

              05/14/1999                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)         S               S

              05/14/1999                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)         S               S

              12/09/1999                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)         S               S



                                              - 38 -

               03/16/2000              1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)          S    S

               08/28/2000              1    LEAD HIGHWAY ENGINEER             U    S
                                            (1)

               02/15/2001              3    LEAD HWY ENGINEER (1);            U    S
                                            SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MGMT
                                            OFFICER (1)

               05/31/2001              1    TTL & HIGHWAY ENGINEER            S    S
                                            (1)

               10/05/2001              2    LEAD HWY ENGINEER (1);            S    S
                                            SR. TRANSP. ECONOMIST (1)

               10/05/2001              1    LEAD HWY ENGINEER (1)             S    S

               01/25/2002              3    TTL HIGHWAY ENGINEER              S    S
                                            (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                            (1); HDM SPECIALIST (1)

               02/14/2003              1    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)              S    S

               06/11/2003              1    HWY ENGINEER (1)                  S    U


 ICR
               02/10/2003             1     CONSULTANT (1)                    S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           57.90                        164.60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                17.70                         47.70
  Supervision                          79.80                        284.36
  ICR                                     3.5                        11.44
  Total                                158.9                         508.1




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Informe final, asistencia técnica a la SEOPC para el estudio informativo de la ampliación carretera
    Santo Domingo ­ Baní (Auding, S.A. Marzo /1998).

 2. Documento base de la licitación publica internacional 03-98, para la ampliación de la Autopista las
    Américas desde el Puente Juan Carlos hasta la rotonda de Boca Chica y Conversión en autopista de la
    nueva ruta de Santo Domingo a San Cristobal (Proyecto Piloto de Concesión Vial) (Auding, S.A.,
    Abril /1998).

 3. Informe final, consultoría para elaboración de un plan de inversiones del sector transporte en la
    República Dominicana (Inocsa, S.A., Junio /1998).

 4. Manual ambiental para el diseño y construcción de proyectos viales, segunda edición (revisión del año
    1999, realizada por la consultora Inarsa & Tecnoamérica, a la primera edición de dicho manual
    preparada por los consultores Hernán Aristazábal G. y Constanza Moreno C.).

 5. Informe final, consultoría de implementación de un sistema administrativo y estructural para la gestión
    financiera de la SEOPC (Horwath Consulting, Mayo/2000).

 6. Informe final, auditoria técnica de ingeniería del Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales, Préstamo BIRF
    4127-DO (Typsa ­ Mendar, Noviembre/2000).

 7. Informe final, consultoría para el fortalecimiento del Departamento de Protección de la Corteza
    Terrestre de la SEOPC en la gestión ambiental de proyectos viales (Inarsa & Tecnoamérica,
    Diciembre/2000).

 8. Informe final, asistencia técnica a la SEOPC en el desarrollo del plan director de drenaje pluvial y
    saneamiento de aguas de la ciudad de Santo Domingo (Auding ­ Watson ­ Isco, Junio /2001).

 9. Informe sobre procedimientos de adquisición de terrenos y propiedades, del Proyecto de Carreteras
    Nacionales (Préstamo BIRF 4127-DO) (especialista ambiental del equipo de apoyo al coordinador,
    Octubre /2001).

10. Informe sobre la ejecución del Programa de Desarrollo Institucional (PDI) (SEOPC, Marzo /2002).

11. Estudio del cumplimiento de objetivos y perspectivas del Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales, Préstamo
    BIRF 4127-DO (Banco Mundial, Febrero /2003).

12. Informe final, programa piloto de mantenimiento integral de carreteras por contrato (Aunding ­
    Transvialsa, Mayo /2003).

13. Informe final, consultoría implementación sistema de estadísticas y análisis de accidentes de transito en
    la República Dominicana (Sercitec ­ Inocsa, Octubre /2003).

14. Informe final, consultoría asistencia técnica en el relevamiento del estado de la red principal de
    carreteras de la República Dominicana y del tránsito de la misma (Auding ­ Transvialsa, octubre
    /2003).




                                                   - 42 -

15. Programa de rehabilitación y mantenimiento de 2,000.00 Km de carreteras principales de la República
    Dominicana. (Auding ­ Transvialsa, octubre /2003).




                                                - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report ([Informe de Cierre del
Proyecto)

1. PERIODO DE EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO

El Acuerdo de Préstamo BIRF 4127-DO, correspondiente al Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales, fue
firmado entre el Gobierno Dominicano y el Banco Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF) en
fecha 17 de enero de 1997, entrando en vigencia a partir del 10 de noviembre de 1997. Se contempló
inicialmente desarrollar la ejecución del Proyecto en el período 1997-2001, teniendo como fecha de cierre el
31 de diciembre del 2001. En el mes de diciembre del 2001, el BIRF concedió una extensión de este plazo
de vencimiento del Préstamo por un (1) año adicional, es decir hasta el 31 de diciembre del año 2002. Ha
sido necesaria una segunda extensión de la fecha de vencimiento del Préstamo, por diez (10) meses
adicionales, esto es hasta el 31 de octubre del año 2003. Estas extensiones de la fecha de cierre del
Préstamo, se han debido principalmente a retrasos en la terminación de los trabajos de las componentes de
obras civiles.

2. OBJETIVOS Y COMPONENTES DEL PROYECTO

El proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales tiene dos (2) objetivos generales (igualmente importantes) :

Primer Objetivo: "Aumentar la contribución del Sector de Transporte al desarrollo de las principales
fuentes de crecimiento económico y brindar un mayor acceso a los mercados"

Segundo Objetivo: "Consolidar los Avances logrados en materia de capacidad institucional con respecto a
la SEOPC con el Préstamo 3350-DO para mantener la red de carreteras en condiciones estables sin el
respaldo de los donantes, y adoptar las nuevas prácticas y políticas estipuladas conforme          a dicho
préstamo".

De conformidad con el Acuerdo de Préstamo, el Proyecto consistía en los siguientes componentes, sujetos a
posibles modificaciones tanto por parte de la SEOPC como del Banco, por mutuo acuerdo, con tal de
alcanzar los objetivos anteriormente indicados:

  a. Obras Civiles:

        a.1: Ampliación de algunos tramos ya existentes de carreteras a cuatro carriles separados (28.30
              KMS. en total).

        a.2: Construcción de Puentes (564.00 M.L.) y Carreteras de circunvalación (24.00 KM).

        a.3: Reconstrucción de 169.00 KMS. de la red de carreteras.

        a.4: Programa de Revestimiento Asfáltico de 628.00 KMS. de carreteras, utilizando nuevas
              tecnologías adoptadas con el Préstamo 3350-DO.

        a.5: Programa Piloto de Mantenimiento Rutinario por Contrato en 640.00 KMS. de carreteras.

        a.6: Contratación de un Programa de Señalización de Carreteras (Señales Informativas).




                                                    - 44 -

  b. Supervisión y Auditoría Técnica de las Obras Civiles de ampliación, Reconstrucción y Rehabilitación
      de Carreteras y Construcción de Puentes, financiados en el marco del Proyecto.

  c. Adquisición de Bienes (Vehículos, piezas de repuestos y equipo de oficina).

  d. Servicios de Consultoría y Capacitación:

        d.1: Coordinación de la Ejecución del Proyecto; d.2) asistencia en el uso de los Sistemas de
              Mantenimiento, en la preparación y el seguimiento de los contratos de Mantenimiento y en la
              realización de un estudio para diseñar e instaurar un fondo de carreteras administrado por un
              nuevo organismo de carreteras; d.3) asesoramiento y capacitación en materia de gestión
              financiera y evaluación interna del desempeño; d.4) fortalecimiento de la Unidad de Medio
              Ambiente de la SEOPC; d.5) creación de una base de datos estadísticos sobre Accidentes de
              Carreteras (a financiar por el Fondo Nórdico de Desarrollo-FND); d.6) preparación de
              futuros Programas de Inversiones en el Sector de Transporte (a financiar por el FND); d.7)
              preparación de un Plan de Desarrollo de la Región Noroccidental, incluidos Estudios de
              Factibilidad e Impacto Ambiental, y Diseño Técnico Preliminar de Infraestructura Básica
              (Documentación del Proyecto). (A financiar por el FND). (No Ejecutado); d.8) preparación
              de un Plan de Desarrollo de Carreteras para la Región costera Oriental (Documentación del
              Proyecto). (A financiar por el FND).       (No Ejecutado); d.9) preparación de un Plan de
              Alcantarillado y Saneamiento para la Ciudad de santo Domingo, comocomplemento del
              estudio sobre el Transporte Urbano financiado con el préstamo 3350-DO; and d.10)
              preparación de un Estudio de Factibilidad de la Ampliación a cuatro carriles, y posterior
              Mantenimiento en Régimen de Concesión de la Carretera Santo Domingo- San Cristóbal ­
              Baní.

Durante la ejecución del Proyecto, fue necesario modificar algunos de estos componentes, tanto en su
contenido como en su alcance, costo y estructura de financiamiento, debido a las variaciones ocurridas al
cambiar las estimaciones consideradas en el Informe de Evaluación Inicial (nov.1996), así como a las
incidencias del Huracán Georges, que azotó a la República Dominicana en el mes de Septiembre del año
1998. Estas modificaciones se indicarán en detalle, más adelante en este Informe.

3. ORGANIZACIÓN Y GESTION DEL PROYECTO

La ejecución del Proyecto ha estado a cargo de la Secretaría de Estado de Obras Públicas y
Comunicaciones (SEOPC). La coordinación administrativa general y las relaciones con el BIRF ha sido
competencia del coordinador General del Proyecto, asistido por unidades de apoyo y control (Departamento
Administrativo de Recursos Externos (DARE), Equipo de Apoyo al Coordinador, Unidad Ejecutora Sur /
Este, y Unidad Ejecutora Norte / Central). Además se ha contado con la participación, para asuntos
específicos y puntuales, de Direcciones y Departamentos de la SEOPC (Dirección General de Carreteras y
Caminos Vecinales, Dirección General de Planificación y Programación de Inversiones, Dirección General
de Tránsito Terrestre, Dirección General de Supervisión y Fiscalización de Obras, Departamento de
Mecánica de Suelos y Pruebas de Materiales, Departamento de Gestión Ambiental y Riesgo, Comisión de
Avalúos).

En general, la labor administrativa y técnica de la SEOPC para la ejecución del Proyecto, se ha realizado
con la debida diligencia en las diferentes fases del mismo, teniendo como referencia los lineamientos y
parámetros incluidos en el Acuerdo de Préstamo.




                                                   - 45 -

Las Obras civiles se han realizado mediante contratos con empresas constructoras nacionales y extranjeras,
especializadas en trabajos viales. Un total de quince (15) empresas y/o consorcios fueron seleccionados y
contratados, utilizando la documentación de Licitación estándar del BIRF para tales fines. Por su parte, la
supervisión de las obras civiles,      también ha sido contratada con firmas consultoras nacionales y
extranjeras especializadas en este tipo de servicios. Un total de siete (7) firmas fueron seleccionadas y
contratadas para estos servicios de supervisión. Una de estas firmas, en coordinación con el Equipo de
Apoyo al Coordinador y la Dirección General de Mantenimiento de Carreteras y Caminos Vecinales, ha
tenido la responsabilidad del seguimiento y control del componente de mantenimiento de carreteras.

 Por otro lado, un total de siete (7) consultorías de asistencia técnica fueron contratadas para la realización
de las actividades de fortalecimiento institucional, mientras que otra consultora tuvo a su cargo una
Auditoría Técnica de Ingeniería del Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales.

Asimismo, se ha contado durante la ejecución del Proyecto, con la participación y seguimiento del BIRF,
en los diferentes aspectos de su incumbencia, tales como coordinaciones de acciones administrativas y
técnicas, procesamiento de las no objeciones, (Licitaciones, contrataciones, financiamiento, etc.),
desembolsos de recursos del Préstamo, acciones de seguimiento de la ejecución de los componentes del
Proyecto, Supervisión y evaluación de la marcha general del Proyecto, concesión de dos (2) prórrogas a la
fecha de cierre del préstamo. En general esta participación del BIRF ha estado orientada a encontrar
conjuntamente con la SEOPC, el cumplimiento de los objetivos y metas del Proyecto.

4. COSTO Y FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PROYECTO.

La inversión total estimada en el Acuerdo de Préstamo para el Proyecto de carreteras Nacionales, fue de
US$122.50 millones de dólares de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, a ser financiados como sigue: 44.5
millones (36.3%) el Gobierno Dominicano (contrapartida), 75.0 millones (61.2%) el BIRF y los 3.0
millones (2.5%) restantes, el Fondo Nórdico para el Desarrollo (FND).

En el transcurso de la ejecución del Proyecto, no se ha contado con el financiamiento de los US$3.0
millones correspondientes     al Fondo Nórdico para el Desarrollo, en razón de que dicha institución
desestimó su participación en el mismo al cambiar las prioridades de países y de sectores de
financiamiento, con posterioridad a la fecha de efectividad del Préstamo 4127-DO. Parte de la actividades
contempladas con este financiamiento fueron ejecutadas con financiamiento del BIRF.

El aporte del BIRF de US$75.00 millones de dólares se ha ejecutado en su totalidad, mientras que el aporte
de la contrapartida del Gobierno Dominicano ha llegado a US$105.91 millones,                   que representa
aproximadamente un 238.00%, en comparación a los US$44.5 millones considerados en el Informe de
Evaluación Inicial. En el cuadro anexo -1 se presentan un desglose del costo y financiamiento del proyecto
por componentes, tanto las estimaciones iniciales como los valores finalmente ejecutados. El monto total
del Poyecto resultó de US$180.91 millones, lo que representa un 147.68% en relación a los US$122.50
millones estimados inicialmente.

En los cuadros del Anexo -2 y el Anexo - 3 se presenta un resumen del costo del proyecto por componentes
y por procedimientos de adquisición, según las estimaciones iniciales y los valores finalmente ejecutados
respectivamente.    Como se puede apreciar en ambos cuadros, en los que respecta a los valores del
Préstamo, las adquisiciones correspondientes a Licitación Internacional se incrementaron de US$53.50
millones estimado inicialmente a US$66.44 millones ejecutadas, mientras que las adquisiciones con
Licitación Nacional se redujeron de US$12.30 millones estimados inicialmente a US$0.64 millones
ejecutados. Esto se ha debido a que las obras del Programa de Mantenimiento de Carreteras fueron


                                                     - 46 -

estimadas para adquirirse mediante Licitación Nacional, pero la parte más importante de dichas obras
correspondiente a los Contratos de Mantenimiento Integral, finalmente fueron adquiridas mediante
Licitación Internacional.

5. CUMPLIMIENTO DE LOS COMPONENTES DEL PROYECTO.

5.1 Ejecución de Componentes Bajo el Programa de Obras Civiles.

Durante la ejecución del Proyecto, fue necesario modificar los componentes del programa de obras civiles,
tanto en su contenido como en su alcance, costo y estructura de financiamiento.           Esta revisión se ha
debido, por un lado, a las variaciones experimentadas al cambiar las estimaciones consideradas en el
informe inicial del proyecto, y por el otro lado, a las incidencias del Huracán Georges, que azotó a la
Republica Dominicana en el mes de septiembre de 1998, originando nuevos requerimientos del trabajo en
las obras civiles. En el cuadro del Anexo-4 se presenta un resumen de las metas físicas correspondientes
a cada uno de los componentes de las obras civiles, en que se incluyen las metas iniciales y los resultados
finales de ejecución. Y en el Anexo ­ 5 se incluye una relación de las obras civiles ejecutadas, su longitud y
valor. A continuación se describe cada uno de los componentes:

Ampliación de Carreteras.

Se realizo una longitud total de 23.52 kms (83% en relación a la longitud estimada inicialmente),
compuesto por la carretera Santiago ­ Navarrete (17.80 kms), y la Avenida Las Américas (entre el puente
Duarte y el Puente Juan Carlos), Tramo I y Tramo II (long. 5.72 kms), en la ciudad de Santo Domingo. La
carretera Santiago ­ Navarrete (incluida originalmente en el proyecto) fue ampliada de dos (2) a cuatro (4)
carriles y facilita el acceso a la región noroeste del país (Productora Agrícola y Polo Turístico). Los
tramos de la Avenida las Américas, se incorporaron durante la ejecución del proyecto, para completar el
corredor "Autopista 6 de noviembre ­ Avenida 27 de Febrero ­ Autopista Las Américas" (el de mayor
volumen de trafico vehicular del país), consistiendo los trabajos en la reconstrucción de los cuatro (4)
carriles centrales, convertidos en carriles expresos, así como en la construcción de las vías marginales norte
y sur, para el tráfico local. Con la incorporación de estos tramos de la Autopista Las Américas, se
reemplazó a dos tramos de carreteras con una longitud total de 8.00 Km., incluidos originalmente para
ampliarse, y que el Gobierno Dominicano decidió realizar fuera del proyecto. Con cargo a este componente
se realizó, además, la reconstrucción de cinco (5) puentes, con una longitud total de 125.00 ML, que fueron
destruidos por el Huracán Georges, y ubicados en una de las carreteras reconstruidas con el Préstamo
anterior (BIRF 3350-DO).

Construcción de Carreteras de Circunvalación y Puentes

Se realizó la reconstrucción de una longitud total de 25.70 KM de carreteras de circunvalación (107% en
relación con la longitud originalmente estimada), compuesto por la Circunvalación San Pedro de Macorís
(12.50 Km) y la Circunvalación de La Romana (13.24 KM). En la circunvalación de San Pedro de
Macorís se terminó una calzada (con dos carriles de circulación) (como estaba previsto originalmente) y se
rehabilitó el puente existente para tráfico de vehículos livianos (longitud de 282.10 ML). Una segunda
calzada (con dos carriles de circunvalación) que se incluyó en una reformulación del proyecto, se dejó a
nivel de movimiento de tierras, para ser terminada junto a la construcción del nuevo puente, por el
Gobierno Dominicano, en razón de que su costo sobrepasó significativamente el monto asignado en el
Informe de evaluación inicial del proyecto. En la circunvalación de La Romana, se terminó la construcción
del Puente sobre el Río Dulce (longitud 167.20 ML), así como la calzada (de dos carriles), cuya longitud
se aumentó a 13.24 KM, en lugar de los 8.00 KM estimados inicialmente, en razón del crecimiento urbano


                                                     - 47 -

en el extremo occidental de la ciudad. El Puente sobre el Río Baní (150.00 ML) fue construido fuera del
Proyecto, con recursos del Gobierno Dominicano mientras que la ampliación del Puente Benito Monción
sobre Río Yaque del Norte, carretera Montecristi ­ Dajabón, se ha financiado con el préstamo BIRF
4420-DO (Programa de Emergencias Huracán Georges) como compensación de las obras de este programa
ejecutado con fondos del Préstamo BIRF 4127-DO. Con cargo a este componente se realizó, además, la
construcción de doce (12) puentes de hormigón armado y vigas postensadas, con una longitud total de
612.00 ML, destruido por el Huracán Georges en diferentes carreteras del país.

Reconstrucción de Carreteras

Se realizó la ejecución de 123.95 KM de carreteras (74% en relación a la longitud estimada originalmente).
Este porcentaje ejecutado se convierte en un 87% si se incluye el tramo de la carretera Sabana Grande de
Boyá - Doña María, el cual ha sido rehabilitado con el préstamo BIRF 4420-DO (Programa de Emergencia
Huracán Georges), como compensación de las obras de ese programa ejecutadas con fondos del préstamo
BIRF 4127-DO. El restante 13% no ejecutado, corresponde a tramos de carreteras incluidos en programas
de reconstrucción con fondos del Gobierno Dominicano.

Programa Piloto de Mantenimiento por Contrato

A partir del año 2000, y hasta el mes de junio/2003, la SEOPC ejecutó un programa piloto de
mantenimiento de carreteras por contrato, que ha consistido en las dos modalidades siguientes: a) Contrato
de Mantenimiento Integral de Carreteras; y b) Contratos de Mantenimiento Rutinario. Los contratos de
Mantenimiento Integral permitieron realizar el mantenimiento de un total de 630.50 kms. de carreteras, con
actividades de mantenimiento periódico (Recapeo de pavimento con nuevas tecnologías, colocación de
barreras laterales de defensa, pintura de líneas de señalización horizontal, construcción de muro de
gaviones, colocación de hitos kilométricos, construcción de cunetas encachadas), así como con actividades
de mantenimiento rutinario (bacheo asfáltico, limpieza de drenajes, control de vegetación, etc.), con una
inversión total de RD$322.05 millones de pesos. Se realizaron tres (3) contratos de mantenimiento
integral, con una duración treinta y seis (36) meses cada uno, como sigue: Contrato de mantenimiento
Integral Grupo CIBAO:166.20 kms; Contrato de Mantenimiento Integral Grupo Noroeste: 216.90 kms y
Contrato de Mantenimiento Integral Grupo Sur: 247.40. En el Anexo - 6 se incluye una relación de las
carreteras integrantes de cada uno de estos contratos.

Con la modalidad de "Mantenimiento Rutinario: de Carreteras por Contrato, fueron atendidos un total de
369.59 kms, ubicados en la red troncal de la región Este del país y en un tramo de la autopista Duarte,
mediante tres (3) contratos de un (1) año de duración y dos (2) contratos de seis (6) meses de duración,
teniendo una inversión total RD$30.55 millones de pesos. En el Anexo -7 se incluye una relación de las
carreteras mantenidas con este tipo de contratos.

En total se ha mantenido 1,000.09 kms de carreteras con los dos tipos de contratos, que representan el 79%
en relación a las longitudes estimadas en el informe de evaluación inicial del proyecto. Esta longitud
mantenida resultó de una reformulación de los trabajos a realizar así como de la identificación de los
tramos de carreteras a seleccionar, como consecuencia de los cambios experimentados en la red en los años
subsiguientes a la evaluación inicial (Año 1995. En efecto, algunos tramos de carreteras fueron
rehabilitados con recursos del Gobierno Dominicano; otros fueron incluidos en los contratos de concesión;
por lo que la integración de los grupos de carreteras finalmente mantenidas en el programa piloto,
representa un nivel aceptable de priorización en relación a los requerimientos del momento por zonas
geográficas del país.




                                                   - 48 -

En los contratos de mantenimiento integral, cabe resaltar la ejecución de trabajos de nuevas tecnologías de
pavimento, consistentes en un recapeo de Hormigón Asfáltico Modificado con polímeros (capa delgada), en
la carretera "Cruce de Otra Banda ­ Cruce de Bávaro _ Entrada Aeropuerto Punta Cana", en el municipio
de Higuey, Provincia La Altagracia, en una longitud aproximada de 20.00 Km, y un costo total estimado
de RD$30.86 millones de pesos. La Cantidad de trabajo bajo este acápite que se ha realizado finalmente,
significativamente inferior al contemplado en el componente de "nuevas tecnologías de pavimentos"
previsto en el Informe de Evaluación Inicial del Proyecto, se ha debido a la reformulación efectuada, como
se ha indicado anteriormente, para dar origen a la modalidad de Contratos de Mantenimientos Integral, en
los cuales se han ejecutado importantes volúmenes de trabajos de "mantenimiento periódico", tales como:
"Recapeo con Hormigón Asfáltico modificado con polímeros" (20.00 Km). "Colocación de barreras
laterales de defensa" (53.81 KM), "Construcción de Muros de gaviones" (7,110.00 m3), "Pintura Líneas
de señalización horizontal" (490.00 Km), "Colocación de Hitos Kilométricos" (565 unidades),
"Construcción de cunetas encachadas" (49.00 KM) y "Trabajos mayores misceláneos" (Reparación Pilas
de Puentes, rehabilitación puntual de pavimentos, canalización mayor de drenajes transversales /
longitudinales), con un costo total estimado de RD$101.4 millones de pesos.

Programa de Señalización de Carreteras.

Se ejecutó mediante contrato un programa de señalización informativa de las carreteras troncales del país
(Carretera Duarte, Las Américas/Costa Este y Sánchez (Circuito del Lago Enriquillo), conteniendo datos
sobre el acceso de unas carreteras a otras, los itinerarios para algunos destinos, puntos de interés turístico y
de interés general para los usuarios. Fueron colocadas un total de 311 señales informativas, desglosadas en
27 pórticos, 72 tipo bandera, 90 informativas triples, 68 informativas dobles y 54 informativas sencillas,
con lo que se supera en gran medida la cantidad de señales informativas estimadas en e Informe de
Evaluación Inicial del Proyecto. Incluye Además la colocación de 416 escudos y/o flechas direccionales.

5.2 Ejecución de Componentes Bajo el Programa de Desarrollo Institucional.

Esta importante parte del Proyecto, se desarrollo mediante la ejecución de diversas consultorías de
asistencia técnica previstas originalmente en el Informe de Evaluación Inicial, así como con las gestiones
administrativas de la SEOPC relacionadas con aspectos estructurales y funcionales para mantener los
beneficios en infraestructura vial y en aspectos institucionales, logrados hasta la fecha con la participación
del BIRF. A continuación se describen estas actividades de desarrollo institucional.

Adquisición de Bienes.

Este componente se ha ejecutado en términos de adquisición de vehículos para la supervisión del proyecto,
reconstrucción de locales de oficinas y adquisición de mobiliario y equipo de oficina (Coordinador General
del Proyecto, Equipo de Apoyo al Coordinador, Departamento Administrativo de Recursos externos y las
Oficinas Ejecutoras del BIRF Sur / Este y Norte / Central). Se ha ejecutado aproximadamente un 17% del
total de los recursos estimados inicialmente para este componente. La parte no ejecutada corresponde a la
adquisición de repuestos para el equipo de mantenimiento de carreteras de la SEOPC (Administración
directa), que se estimó no prioritario y los recursos correspondientes fueron asignados a otros componentes
del Proyecto.




                                                     - 49 -

Fortalecimiento de los Programas de Mantenimiento de Carreteras.

Durante la ejecución del proyecto la SEOPC ha contado con la asistencia técnica de una firma consultora,
cuyos esfuerzos se han concentrado por una parte, a reforzar los procedimientos del Sistema de
Administración de Mantenimiento de Carreteras (SAMC) de la Dirección General de Mantenimiento de
Carreteras y Caminos Vecinales (DGMCCV), con los Distritos y Ayudantías a nivel nacional, y por otra
parte, al establecimiento de los mecanismos de mantenimiento de carreteras mediante contrato, con la
participación del Sector privado. En lo que concierne al procedimiento tradicional de administración directa
del mantenimiento, se ha asistido a la DGMCV con la capacitación del personal técnico (ingenieros,
administradores), tanto a nivel central como en los Distritos y Ayudantías, en los aspectos de
presupuestación, programación, ejecución y control de las actividades de mantenimiento, incluyendo tareas
importantes como el levantamiento de los datos de inventario de las condiciones de la red principal de
carreteras. En los que respecta al Programa de Mantenimiento por Contrato, se elaboraron los términos de
referencia y la documentación de licitación de los trabajos, así como las instrucciones para la correcta
aplicación del SAMC por parte de contratistas y supervisores. Se ha llegado a una fase en que se requiere
una gestión más moderna del mantenimiento, en que se conecten la planificación que permite el SAMC y la
información suministrada por los sistemas de ejecución de los contratistas, para obtener un sistema
completo y adaptado a las necesidades de la DGMCV, que será el que los futuros contratistas estarían
obligados a alimentar.
Dicho sistema se emplearía para darle seguimiento a los trabajos, la fiscalización de los mismos y al estado
secuencial de los elementos de la carretera en función de las operaciones de mantenimiento realizadas sobre
ellos.

Financiamiento del Mantenimiento de Carreteras.

Con el objeto de lograr la sostenibilidad y autofinanciamiento del mantenimiento de carreteras, la SEOPC
ha contado con servicios de asistencia técnica iniciados en el Proyecto anterior (Préstamo BIRF 3350-DO),
dirigidos al diseño de un Anteproyecto de Ley para la creación de un Fondo Vial, a ser administrado por un
organismo independiente. En el Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales, se continuó con esta asistencia técnica,
incorporando diferentes ideas y alternativas de adaptación a la realidad actual del país. Estos esfuerzos se
han multiplicado a partir del año 2000, con las revisiones realizadas por la SEOPC con la asistencia de la
firma consultora contratada y la incorporación de comentarios del BIRF al Anteproyecto de Ley. El trámite
para la aprobación del Anteproyecto de Ley requiere de su sometimiento al Congreso Nacional, hasta la
fecha no se han logrado las condiciones adecuadas para su realización. En consecuencia, y dada la urgencia
de contar con el mecanismo de autofinanciamiento del mantenimiento de carreteras, algunas alternativas
han sugerido la creación de un fondo provisional a lo interno de la SEOPC, que destine algunos recursos
para la contratación de trabajos prioritarios de mantenimiento.       En el plan de sostenibilidad para la
aprobación de la última extensión de la fecha de cierre del Préstamo se planteó un mecanismo gradual,
consistente en la creación de una Cuenta de Conservación Vial, previa a la Ley de Fondo Vial, a ser
establecida en el último cuatrimestre del 2003, y a ser manejada por una comisión de Alto Nivel Jerárquico
de la SEOPC. Esta opción aunque no se realizó durante el periodo de vigencia del Préstamo, sigue
teniendo validez para una etapa transitoria hasta que finalmente sea aprobada y puesta en marcha la Ley de
Fondo Vial.

Mejoras en el Sistema Contable ­ Financiero.

Con el objeto de reforzar las deficiencias existentes en el Sistema Contable ­ Financiero de la SEOPC, con
recursos del Proyecto se realizó en los años 1999 y 2000, una consultoría de asistencia técnica para la
Implementación de un Sistema Administrativo y Estructural de la Gestión Financiera,             obteniéndose


                                                    - 50 -

resultados satisfactorios en lo que respecta a capacitación del personal, y formulación de recomendación de
mejoras en las áreas de contabilidad, auditoría interna y programas y presupuestos de corto y largo plazo.
Se realizó un análisis y evaluación de la función financiera- contable en los aspectos de: estructura
organizativa, distribución del personal, sistema de información y control. Asimismo se enfatizó el análisis y
evaluación de auditoría interna (normas y manuales de capacitación), los procesos y registros contables,
contabilidad de costos, presupuesto, tesorería, administración pública y requisitos de organismos
internacionales.

Fortalecimiento del Departamento de Protección de la Corteza Terrestre.

Con financiamiento del Préstamo BIRF 4127-DO, se desarrolló una consultoría de asistencia técnica para
el fortalecimiento del Departamento de Protección de la Corteza Terrestre de la SEOPC, en el manejo de
los asuntos ambientales del área de carreteras, tanto para las obras del Proyecto de Carreteras Nacionales
como para futuros proyectos sectoriales. La consultoría se realizó en los años 1999 y 2000, obteniéndose
los objetivos propuestos de implementación de mecanismos y procedimientos de gestión ambiental,
formación y capacitación del personal, producción de la Segunda Edición (Revisión del año 1999) del
Manual Ambiental para Diseño y Construcción de Proyectos Viales" Un objetivo de la asistencia técnica
que era establecer una Unidad Ambiental en el Departamento de Protección de la Corteza Terrestre, se
interrumpió al promulgarse la Ley No. 64-00, que creó la Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales, a finales del año 2000. Sin embargo, bajo el amparo de la nueva ley, se creo en la SEOPC el
Departamento Ambiental y de Riesgo, mediante Orden Departamental No. 76/01, de fecha 21/agosto
/2001). Este departamento cuenta actualmente con dos dependencias: La Sección de Gestión Ambiental y
La Sección de Riego. La Sección de Gestión Ambiental, está a cargo del seguimiento a los proyectos viales,
para asegurar se cumplan las especificaciones técnicas de aquellos elementos que contribuyen a prevenir o
mitigar los impactos ambientales de las obras ejecutadas por la SEOPC.

Creación de una Base de Datos Estadísticos sobre Accidentes de Tránsito.

Se desarrolló en los años 2002 y 2003, una consultoría de asistencia técnica para crear en la Dirección
General de Tránsito Terrestre de la SEOPC y en la Policía de Tránsito (Urbana y de Carreteras), un
sistema de registro y avalúos de accidentes viales. Este sistema de registros y análisis ha permitido la
presentación de los accidentes por tipo, fecha, hora, lugar, tipo de vehículo involucrado, edad y sexo de las
víctimas. Además, la preparación de un Guía para el llenado del registro de accidentes, manual de
operaciones de la base de datos; Manual de análisis de accidentes, y Guía para el calculo de costos de
accidentes viales en la República Dominicana. Se ha realizado un análisis del Sistema de multas y cargos
panales involucrados en los accidentes y establecimientos de un reglamento de sistema de puntos.
Asimismo se ha dotado a la Dirección General e Tránsito Terrestre de la SEOPC y a la Policía Nacional,
de los e quipos y requerimientos computacionales para desarrollar estas actividades. Esta consultoría se
financió con recursos del préstamo BIRF 4127-DO, en razón de la no disponibilidad de recursos del Fondo
Nórdico de Desarrollo (FND).

Auscultación del Estado de la Red Principal de Carreteras (A incluir en caso de que                        se
contrate/ejecute).

En el año 2003, la SEOPC realizó la auscultación del estado de la red principal de carreteras del país, con
una longitud aproximada de 2,000.00 KMS. Este trabajo fue llevado a cabo con la asistencia técnica de
una firma consultora especializada en este tipo de servicios, contando con el financiamiento del Préstamo
4127-DO. La información básica levantada ha consistido en el tránsito clasificado, geometría de la vía
(ancho curvatura, pendiente), estado superficial del pavimento (fisuración, desprendimiento de áridos,


                                                    - 51 -

rotura borde, baches), regularidad superficial del pavimento mediante la mancha de arena (sand match)
(equivalente MAE), coeficiente de razonamiento del pavimento, deflexión del pavimento bajo la carga
estándar del eje de diseño de 80 KW, uso equipo de carga de impacto FWD. Con esta información se
elaboró un programa de rehabilitación y mantenimiento de las indicadas carreteras, utilizando como
herramientas de análisis el modelo HDM-4.

Capacitación de Personal.

Como parte importante del programa de desarrollo institucional implementado con recursos del Préstamo
4127-DO, se encuentra la participación de personal técnico de la SEOPC, en cursos de capacitación sobre
diversos tópicos administrativos, contable ­ financiero y técnico ­ vial, tanto a nivel nacional como
internacional, lográndose tener un personal actualizado en estos tópicos para cumplir con sus obligaciones
en la institución. Se puede mencionar en forma especial, la participación de ingenieros civiles de la SEOPC
en el Curso "Programación y Evaluación de Inversiones en Redes de Carreteras con el Modelo HDM ­ 3/
(HDM ­ 4)", efectuado en España, en cada uno de los años 1998, 1999, 2001 y 2002 organizado por el
Banco Mundial y la Asociación Técnica de Carreteras de España.

6. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

Dos     factores con mucha incidencia en los incrementos         del costo de algunas obras, han sido la
actualización del proyecto (rediseño) y el retraso en su ejecución, pues han generado volúmenes adicionales
de trabajo y reajustes de precios unitarios, que necesariamente conllevan a un aumento del costo de
terminación. De ahí que, para mantener al proyecto en un entorno de costo prudente, es necesario contratar
las obras con un diseño lo más actualizado posible, así como neutralizar adecuadamente las causas que
motivan retrasos en la ejecución, tal como demoras en los pagos y en las tomas de decisiones y los retrasos
en las expropiaciones de terrenos.

En el caso de proyectos viales con requerimientos importantes de expropiaciones de terrenos y mejoras,
tales como ampliaciones y construcciones de nuevas vías, es recomendable tener un estimativo de su
cuantía y de las alternativas de solución al momento de formular el Proyecto, con el objeto de atenuar los
retrasos en la ejecución de las obras por este motivo.

La contratación de varias obras con una misma empresa contratista, en algunos casos ha creado
dificultades operativas, pues incidencias en una de las obras se refleja en las otras, sin que necesariamente
tengan una relación causa ­ efecto. Por esto, es recomendable en el proceso de licitación, establecer
mecanismos administrativos que limiten la cantidad de lotes que puedan ser adjudicados a un mismo
licitante.

La disponibilidad en el momento oportuno de los recursos de contrapartida, es un elemento esencial para la
ejecución a tiempo de las obras. No obstante, en algunos casos, retrasos no significativos en el pago de la
contrapartida, han originado paralización de los trabajos, incompatibles con la solvencia y capacidad
económica ofertada y evaluada del contratista. En consecuencia es importante establecer mecanismo
práctico de manejo eficiente de la obra, mediante un equilibrio de la capacidad y solvencia del contratista
con el nivel de desembolsos y pagos correspondientes.

En la determinación del costo de inversión en una obra vial, sujeto a evaluación de su rentabilidad
económica, es necesario diferenciar el costo de los rubros propios de la funcionabilidad en términos de
transporte de dicha obra, de aquellos rubros complementarios y no indispensables, como aceras, pasos
peatonales, trabajos de embellecimiento, etc.


                                                    - 52 -

En general la SEOPC ha ejecutado diversas actividades de mantenimiento de carreteras, a través de
diferentes departamentos, que en su conjunto son de una cuantía significativa, pero al no estar coordinada
por una única estructura administrativa, como la Dirección General de Mantenimiento de Carreteras y
Caminos Vecinales, no refleja su verdadero valor y peso como contribución en la sostenibilidad de
mantenimiento. Se requiere de una reformulación en este sentido.

Para la ejecución de los programas de mantenimiento de carreteras, su planificacións y control, en
importante desarrollar una más efectiva labor de control del derecho de vía.

Tomando en consideración las posibles economías por aplicación de la tasa de cambio que se pueden
generar en la ejecución de los diferentes componentes de inversión del Préstamo, después de dos (2) o más
años de implementación, es recomendable realizar una evaluación general intermedia de los desembolsos.
El superávit no comprometido que pudiera existir, se pudiera reasignar en un orden prioritario en base a la
efectividad de su inversión.

En el proceso de licitación de las obras de mantenimiento de carreteras es importante establecer un
mecanismo lo más amplio posible de promoción dentro de las empresas constructoras nacionales, con el
objeto de contar con el mayor nivel de motivación y participación de las mismas.




                                                  - 53 -

- 54 -

