Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4127-DO
                              Loan Agreement
                         (National Highway Project)
                                 between
                            DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated January 17, 1997
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4127-DO
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1997, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic Development
Fund (NDF) a loan in an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately
$3,000,000 (the NDF Loan) to assist in the financing of Part B of the
Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NDF (the NDF Loan Agreement);
and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modification of Section 6.03 set forth below
Page  2
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agree-
ment:
          "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right
          of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
          shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the
          Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any
          time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the
          Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required
          to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank deter-
          mines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of
          the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent
          practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower
          or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or
          the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having
          taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank
          to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
          expenditures in respect of such contract which would other-
          wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
          the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the
          procurement of any contract to be financed out of the pro-
          ceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set
          forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes
          the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract
          which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
          of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date,
          an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the
          Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice
          from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect
          to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the
          Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
          Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.
          Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan
          shall be cancelled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Environmental Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be adopted by the SEOPC (as hereinafter defined) as provided
in Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement, which sets forth, inter alia, in
respect of Subprojects: (i) the appropriate references to the
Borrower's pertinent legislation and regulations on environment and
natural resources; (ii) the prohibitions and environmental behavior
guidelines for work crews on sensitive environmentally areas; (iii)
the procedures for selection and management of quarries, borrow pits,
gravel extraction along rivers, and other sources of construction
material, and eventual rehabilitation of affected areas through soil
replacement and revegetation; (iv) the procedures for selection of
camp sites, management of camp wastes and guidelines for camp dis-
mantling and abandonment; (v) the procedures for proper disposal of
excavated earth and spoil material to avoid the contamination of
streams or causing other unnecessary damage; and (vi) the procedures
for proper disposal of waste and the operation of the equipment
required therefor;
     (b)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins
on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
     (c)  "Highway Investment and Maintenance Program" means any of
the programs referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Institutional Development Program" means SEOPC's institu-
tional development program described in Annex A to the Supplemental
Letter (as hereinafter defined);
     (e)  "Performance Monitoring Indicators" means the Project's
performance monitoring indicators set forth in Annex B to the
Supplemental Letter (as hereinafter defined);
Page  3
     (f)  "Pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (g)  "Project Coordinating Team" means the team referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Road Agency" and "Road Fund" means the Borrower's road
entity and the road financing mechanism, respectively, to be
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.09 of
this Agreement;
     (j)  "SEOPC" means Secretara de Estado de Obras Pblicas y
Comunicaciones, the Borrower's  Secretariat of Public Works and
Communications;
     (k)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Subproject" means any of the civil works to be carried out
under Part A.1 of the Project; and
     (m)  "Supplemental Letter" means the Borrower's letter to the
Bank of even date herewith which sets forth as annexes to such
letter: (i) the Institutional Development Plan (Annex A); (ii) the
Performance Monitoring Indicators (Annex B); (iii) the list of the
personnel to be employed by the Project Coordinating Team as provided
in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement (Annex C); and (iv) the
principles and guidelines for the resettlement action plans referred
to in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement (Annex D).
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to seventy five million Dollars ($75,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in  Banco Central de la
Repblica Dominicana (the Borrower's central bank) on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
Page  4
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The Project Coordinator (or such other person or
persons as such Project Coordinator shall appoint in writing) is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
SEOPC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, maintenance, safety, environmental,
financial, managerial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Highway
Investment and Maintenance Programs, the Institutional Development
Program and the Environmental Manual, with due regard to the
Performance Monitoring Indicators.
     (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual
budgets for Fiscal Years 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001, and make
available promptly as needed in Pesos, the minimum amounts equivalent
to $9,000,000, $9,500,000, $9,500,000, $9,500,000 and $7,000,000,
respectively, as counterpart funds required for Project Implementation.
     (d)  Not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of
               the Project, an account in a bank acceptable to the
               Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to
               the Bank, for purposes of depositing the counterpart
               funds referred to in paragraph (c) above; and
         (ii)  make an initial deposit of $1,500,000 equivalent in
               the account referred to in subparagraph (i) above.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the
Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall appoint, and thereafter
maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project coordinating
team within SEOPC, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by
staff (including specialized staff) in adequate numbers, all with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  5
     (b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project Coordinating Team will be responsible, inter
alia, for:
          (i)  the overall planning and monitoring of the Project;
         (ii)  the preparation of the reports referred to in Sections
               3.05, 3.07 and 3.12 of this Agreement and the report
               referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General
               Conditions;
        (iii)  the supervision of the carrying out of Subprojects;
               and
         (iv)  the management of the procurement activities and the
               disbursement of funds, under the Project.
     Section 3.05. With regard to the provision of technical assistance
under Part B of the Project, the Borrower, through the Project
Coordinating Team, shall:
     (a)  promptly after the completion of each service or training,
as the case may be, furnish to the Bank: (i) a copy of the consul-
tants' findings and recommendations; and/or (ii) a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request on the
results of each training program and the benefits derived therefrom;
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the
consultants' findings and recommendations or the results of the
training program; and
     (c)  implement the recommendations of such consultants, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 3.06.  Not later than September 30 of each year during
Project execution, starting in 1997, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
following Fiscal Year, which shall include, inter alia:
     (a)  all proposals for the maintenance and rehabilitation of
road infrastructure in the Borrower's road network, including the
Subprojects to be carried out during such Fiscal Year;
     (b)  Subprojects whose economic rate of return shall be equal
to no less than 12%, particularly in cases in which revised
engineering designs of Subprojects resulted in cost estimates
exceeding those of the preliminary engineering designs by more
than 25% in Dollar equivalent, such rate of return to be calculated
in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank;
     (c)  the recommendations of the environmental impact assessment
of each Subproject;
     (d)  appropriate arrangements to carry out routine and periodic
maintenance of the investments mentioned in (a) above;
     (e)  a list of the works to be executed by private contractors
and by force account; and
     (f)  the budgetary allocation for each investment referred to in
(a) above in accordance with the minimum amounts referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
     Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than
March 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 1998,
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request with respect to, inter
alia, the amount of budgeted funds committed and/or used in carrying
out the road maintenance investments under the Highway Investment
and Maintenance Program for the Fiscal Year preceding the date of
presentation of such report.
Page  6
     Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1997 employ, and thereafter retain until the completion of the
Project, a transport specialist (with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank) to assist SEOPC, inter alia, in the
preparation of the Borrower's transport programs.
     Section 3.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Sections
3.01 and 3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1998 prepare and initiate action for the adoption of
the instruments necessary to establish: (a) the Road Fund, as a
mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, which will finance the cost of
maintenance and rehabilitation of roads within the Borrower's road
network; and (b) the Road Agency, as the entity, acceptable to the
Bank, which will operate such financing mechanism.
     Section 3.10. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
carry out all Subprojects following the recommendations of the
respective environmental impact assessment referred to in Section
3.06 (c) of this Agreement.
     (b)  In the event that any population resettlement is required
from the site where the respective Subproject shall be carried out,
the Borrower shall not later than the date in which it furnishes to
the Bank the corresponding Highway Investment and Maintenance Program
in which such Subproject is included: (i) prepare (in accordance with
the principles and guidelines set forth in Annex D to the Supplemental
Letter) and furnish to the Bank a resettlement plan for such popula-
tion satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) thereafter carry out such
plan in accordance with its terms.
     Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.10 of this Agreement and in the event that the engineering designs
of a Subproject to be carried out under Parts A.1 (a) and (b) of the
Project require acquisition of land therefor, the Borrower shall not
later than the date on which it furnishes to the Bank the correspond-
ing Highway Investment and Maintenance Program in which such Sub-
project is included: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, a land
acquisition plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) thereafter carry
out such plan in accordance with its terms.
     Section 3.12.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than
forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter during the
execution of the Project, starting not later than November 15, 1997,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request on the progress achieved
in the execution of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter.
     Section 3.13.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than March 31 of each year during the execution
of the Project, starting in 1998 (with the exception of Fiscal Year
1999 as provided in paragraph (b) below), review jointly with the
Bank the progress made by the Borrower in the implementation of the
Project during the previous Fiscal Year. During such review the
Borrower shall discuss the corresponding progress reports referred
to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1999, prepare
and furnish to the Bank, an agenda satisfactory to the Bank, for the
carrying out of the mid-term review  not later than December 31,
1999.  As part of such review, the Bank may require the Borrower to
prepare an action plan as provided in paragraph (a) above in which
case the Borrower shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried
out such action plan in accordance with its terms.
     Section 3.14. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than
March 31, 1997 prepare and furnish to the Bank guidelines, satis-
Page  7
factory to the Bank, for the execution of the Subprojects under
Part A.1(e) of the Project; and (b) thereafter follow such guide-
lines in the carrying out of such Subprojects.
     Section 3.15. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  have all the technical documentation under Parts A.1 and
A.2 of the Project (including bidding documents, contracts,
engineering designs and other operational and engineering documents)
audited each Fiscal Year, in accordance with internationally accepted
engineering standards, by independent professionals acceptable to the
Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case
no later than six months after the end of each such year, the report
of said audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and
     (c)  at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said audit, as the Bank may
reasonably request.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments and
agencies of the Borrower responsible for Project implementation.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section including those for the
               Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
Page  8
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such Fiscal Year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  That the Road Agency and the Road Fund shall have not been
established by December 31, 1999.
     (b)  That the Road Agency or the Road Fund, once established,
shall have not been operating substantially in accordance with the
instruments providing for their establishment and operation.
     (c)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of any Loan made for the financing of the Project
                    (including the NDF Loan) shall have been suspended,
                    canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
                    suant to the terms of the agreement providing
                    therefor; and
               (B)  any such loan (including the NDF Loan) shall have
                    become due and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                    the corresponding agreements (including the NDF
                    Loan Agreement); and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are available to
                    the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                    conditions consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  that any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  that any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(c) (ii) of that Section.
                              ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that a financial management system for SEOPC, satisfactory
to the Bank, shall have been established and is in operation in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  9
     (b)  that the Borrower has employed the personnel for the Project
Coordinating Team listed in Annex C to the Supplemental Letter; and
     (c)  that the Environmental Manual shall have been adopted by
SEOPC.
     Section 6.02. The date April 15, 1997  is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretariado Tcnico de la Presidencia
          Palacio Nacional
          Avenida Mxico
          Santo Domingo
          Repblica Dominicana
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                    By /s/ Eduardo Selman
                       /s/ Jaime Duran Hernando
                                                Authorized Representatives
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
Page  10
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in Dollar    Expenditures
Category                      Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
    (a) under Parts A.1 (a),
        A.1 (b) and A.1 (f)
        of the Project        26,800,000         70%
    (b) under Part A.1 (c)
        of the Project        17,000,000         60%
    (c) under Parts A.1 (d)
        and A.1 (e) of the
        Project               11,100,000         50%
(2) Goods under Parts A.1 (e)
    and B of the Project       1,100,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures; 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost) and
                                                 90% of other items
                                                 procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services
    under Parts A.2 and
    A.3 of the Project         3,800,000         60%
(4)  Consultants' Services
     and Training under
     Part B of the Project     3,200,000         80%
(5)  Unallocated              12,000,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    75,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
     (b)  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Training" means expenditures incurred for: (i)
domestic and international travel and per diems of trainers and
trainees; and (ii) training materials.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $6,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after February 15, 1996; and
     (b)  payments made under Category 1 of the table in paragraph 1
of this schedule for expenditures under a Subproject unless: (i)
such Subproject has been included in the corresponding annual Highway
Investment and Maintenance Program as provided in Section 3.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if applicable, the resettlement plan
Page  11
referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement is being, or has
been, carried out as provided in such Section.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower for
expenditures under:
     (a)  contracts for civil works estimated to cost $3,000,000
equivalent or less;
     (b)  contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $250,000;
     (c)  contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent;
     (d)  contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent; and
     (e)  Training.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the Borrower's
transport sector contribution to the development of tourism and free
trade zones and improve access to markets; and (b) to strengthen the
institutional capacity of SEOPC to maintain the Borrower's road
network in a stable condition.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Subprojects
1.   Carrying out of Subprojects which consist of the following:
     (a)  Widening of about 30 kilometers of selected highway sections
of the Borrower's road network.
     (b)  Construction or widening of 4 selected bridges and about 24
kilometers of by-passes.
     (c)  Reconstruction of about 170 kilometers of selected sections
of the Borrower's road network.
     (d)  Carrying out of a program to resurface about 630 kilometers
of the Borrower's road network.
     (e)  Carrying out of a pilot program for the routine maintenance
of about 640 kilometers of the Borrower's road network, including the
acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor.
     (f)  Carrying out of a road signalization program which consists
of the installation of informative signals for connections among
roads, itineraries for destinations, tourist locations and road
services provided to road users.
2.   Provision of technical assistance to SEOPC to assist it in the
carrying out of the supervision of the Subprojects under Parts A.1
(a), (b) and (c) above.
3.   Provision of technical assistance to SEOPC for the carrying out
of the technical audits of the activities under Parts A.1 and A.2
above.
Part B:   Technical Assistance Program
     Provision of technical assistance to SEOPC, including the
acquisition and utilization of goods and the provision of training
Page  12
for:
1.   the coordination of the execution of the Project;
2.   the utilization of the road maintenance management systems;
3.   the preparation and monitoring of road maintenance contracts;
4.   the implementation of  the Road Fund;
5.   the strengthening of SEOPC's financial management and the carrying
out of internal audits;
6.   the strengthening of SEOPC's environmental unit;
7.   the establishment of a data base on highway accident statistics;
8.   the preparation of future investment programs in the transport
sector;
9.   the preparation of a highway development plan for the Borrower's
eastern region;
10.  the preparation of a development plan for the Borrower's north-
western region;
11.  the preparation of a drainage and sanitation plan for the city
of Santo Domingo; and
12.  the preparation of a feasibility study for the carrying out,
through concession contracts, of road widening and maintenance of
selected highways in the Borrower's road network.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
              Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial
period, each period from and including an Interest Payment date to,
but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period
in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding
from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to
its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date,
as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Page  13
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
               by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such
               Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
     (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
               Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above)
               the London interbank offered rates, or other reference
               rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
               outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
               fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
               it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Page  14
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applic-
able to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last
such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed
Amount.  Each installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such
Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant
to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after October 15,
2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for
such Disbursed Amount.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                      Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works  shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Prequalification
     Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000
or more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Two-stage bidding procedure
     The bidding procedure for computer hardware and software shall be
carried out in two stages, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  15
     (c)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated
to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a) (i) Works (excluding those under Part A.1 (f) of the Project
which shall be procured under the procedures referred to in Part B.1
of this Section) estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or less but
more than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of $25,000,000 equivalent ; and (ii) goods (other than computer hard-
ware and software) estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent but
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amountof $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
     (b)  In the procurement of works and goods under this Part C.1,
the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Bank.
2.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works (excluding those under Part A.1 (f) of the Project which
shall be procured under the procedures referred to in Part B.1 of
this Section) estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per
contract, and not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate,
shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
3.   International or National Shopping
     Goods (other than computer hardware and software) estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of
$600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts (as the case may be), the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply to: (a) each contract to be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section; and (b)
the first two contracts to be awarded each year of Project imple-
mentation in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (a) of this
Section.
Page  16
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower, through the Project Coordinating Team, shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such consultants shall be
employed under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
agreed with the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or less each.  However, this exception to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to more than $100,000
equivalent; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to more than
$50,000 equivalent.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
Page  17
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account; or
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
Page  18
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Condi-
tions.
