                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No.: 29532




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                  SRI LANKA

                  ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
                        (CREDIT 2938-CE; GETF 28955)


     SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 2297-CE)




                                  ,June25, 2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit =SriLankan Rupees (Rs.)

1991                      US$l  .oo          Rs40.23
1992                      US$1  .oo          Rs42.51
1993                      US$l  .oo          Rs46.15
1994                      US$l  .oo          Rs49.50
1995                      US$l  .oo          Rs49.99
1996                      US$l  .oo          Rs54.04
1997                      US$l  .oo          Rs56.69
1998                      US$1  .oo          Rs61.21
1999                      US$l  .oo          Rs68.36
2000                      US$l  .oo          Rs72.02
2001                      US$l  .oo          Rs82.55
2002                      US$l  .oo          Rs93.05
2003                      US$l.OO            Rs96.71


Abbreviations and Acronyms

AU          Administrative Unit based at DFCC Bank
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEB         Ceylon Electricity Board
DSM         demand-side management
EBRS        Energy Business Renewal Strategy
ECS         electricity consumers societies
ESDP        Energy Services Delivery Project
GCMH        grid-connected minihydro
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GoSL        Government of Sri Lanka
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
ITDG        Intermediate Technology Development Group
LO1         Letter of Intent
MFI         microfinance institutions
NGO         nongovernmental organization
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
OGVH        off-grid village hydro
PCI         participating credit institutions
PPAR        Project Performance Assessment Report
R E E D     Renewable Energy and Rural Economic Development Project
SHS         solar home systems
SEEDS       Sarvodaya Economic Enterprises Development Services
SPPA        small power purchase agreement


Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department              : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                 :   Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr. Fernando Manibog

                                                              i




  OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations Evaluation Departmentassesses the programs and activities of the World Bankfor two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluation process andto verify that the Bank's work is
producingthe expected results, andsecond, to help develop improved directions, policies, and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operations for assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
ExecutiveDirectors or Bank management have requested assessments; and thosethat are likelyto generate
importantlessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance:The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

Principal Ratings          ................................................................................................................    v

Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................    v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................      vii

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................       ix

Energy Services Delivery Project                        .....................................................................................   1

        Introduction..............................................................................................................              1

        Project Objectives. Components and Financing Mechanisms ................................                                                1
        Relevance .................................................................................................................             5

        Efficacy ....................................................................................................................           5
        Efficiency..................................................................................................................            8

         Outcome...................................................................................................................            9

        Sustainability..........................................................................................................              10

        Institutional Development Impact.,........................................................................                            11
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                    13

        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                       14
        Lessons Learned.....................................................................................................                  15
        Remaining Challenges...........................................................................................                       17

Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project                                           ................................................ 20

        Project Objectives and Components......................................................................                               21
         Outcome................................................................................................................              -21

        Sustainability..........................................................................................................              22
        Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................                            22
        Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................................                              22
        Lessons Learned.....................................................................................................                  24

Annex A Basic Data Sheets
           .                                  ............................................................................................    19




This report was prepared by Fernando Manibog. who assessed the project in October 2003. The report was
edited by William Hurlbut. and Rose Gachina provided administrative support.


                                                   V



Principal Ratings
Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project (Credit 2297-CE)

                                 ICR*                     ICR Review*                      PPAR
Outcome                      Satisfactory            Marginally Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                        Likely                       Likely
Institutional                Substantial                     Modest                       Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower                     Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Performance


Energy Services Delivery Project (Credit 2938-CE; GETF-28955)

                                 ICR*                     ICR Review*                     PPAR
Outcome                      Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                        Likely                       Likely
Institutional                    High                          High                         High
Development Impact
Bank Performance             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              Highly Satisfactory
Borrower                 Highly Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory
Performance


* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of
the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project (Credit 2297-CE)

                                                                                          .
Project                        Task Manager/Leader             Division Chief/         Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
 Appraisal                         Heping Wu and            Frederick T. Temple        Shinji Asanuma
                                  Mohinder Manrai
 Completion                         Marc Heitner           Alastair J. McKechnie      Mariana Todorova


Energy Services Delivery Project (Credit 2938-CE; GETF-28955)

Project                        Task ManagerLeader              Division Chief/         Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
 Appraisal                        Loreta Schaeffer                Per Ljung           Roberto Bentjerodt
 Completion                         Chandrasekar               Penelope Brook            Peter Harrold
                                    Govindarajalu


                                             vii


Preface

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) on two energy projects in Sri Lanka: the
Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project and Energy Services Delivery
Project (ESDP). The Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project was approved
in 1992 for an IDA credit of US$50 million equivalent and closed on June 30, 1998, after
a 27-month delay and US$7.61 million equivalent was cancelled. The ESDP was
approved on March 18, 1997, for a Bank credit of US$22.1 million equivalent (Cr. 2938-
CE), and a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant of US$5.7 million equivalent
(GETF No. 028955). The project closed as scheduled on December 31,2002, and was
fully disbursed.

        The Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project was assessed because it
was IDA'Slast project with the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB). There has been no new
lending to CEB since 1998, and no new operations are planned. The ESDP was selected
for an OED assessment because it is one of the first major renewable energy projects
financed by IDA and GEF, and it features a unique financing mechanism and
implementation framework from which important lessons can be derived.

        The Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project is based on the ICR
(Report No. 19396) issued on June 30,1999, and the IDA credit documents and
interviews. The ESDP assessment is based on the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR Report No. 25907) prepared by the South Asia Region and issued on June 5,2003,
as well as the IDA credit and GEF grant documents, project files, and discussions with
Bank staff. An OED mission visited Sri Lanka in October 2003 to discuss the
effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the government, project implementing
agencies at the national and state levels, commercial banks, private investors and business
associations for renewable energy technologies, academic and research institutes,
nongovernmental organizations, and other stakeholders. Their cooperation in granting
interviews and providing data is gratefully acknowledged. The substantial assistance
provided by the project's Administrative Unit in the DFCC Bank during the mission and
report preparation is especially appreciated.

        In the main report, the ESDP is discussed first because of its greater learning
interest, given its more innovative design and components compared to the Second Power
Project.

        Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for
comments. No comments were received.


                                              ix


Summary

        The Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project, approved in 1992,was
IDA'Slast project with the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), Sri Lanka's state-owned
utility. Since 1981, IDA has supported two other power projects in Sri Lanka. The
objectives of the Second Power project were to: (a) support the rationalization of power
distribution, reduce system losses in the distribution system operated by local licensees,
and improve service quality; (b) expand the transmission system to meet demand growth;
(c) strengthen CEB's institutional capacity; and (d) assist in the preparation of a selected
hydroelectric complex.

        The project's outcome is rated moderately satisfactory, as its objectives were only
partially achieved or implemented with significant delays, some after Credit closing. Its
sustainability is likely, since CEB is now properly operating and maintaining the
project's facilities. The institutional development impact is rated modest, given CEB's
continuing lack of financial and operational autonomy, lack of commercial orientation,
and poor financial results. IDA performance is rated satisfactory, as project documents
and interviews indicated that IDA was diligent and provided potentially usehl (but
unheeded) advice during project design, appraisal and supervision. The Borrower
performance is rated unsatisfactovy,particularly by causing long procurement delays and
maintaining inadequate power tariffs, which did not enable CEB to implement the project
efficiently and fully achieve its objectives.

        The main lessons from the Second Power project concern the importance, prior to
Board approval, of addressing procurement policies and procedures that could create
problems and delays later; the necessity for a truly independent regulatory regime to
govern tariff determination in order to help safeguard the sector's financial viability; and
the importance of rigorously assessing risk and identifying exit mechanisms for project
components located in areas with civil unrest.

        The Energy Service Delivery Project (ESDP), approved in 1997,was a necessary
response of the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) to the serious constraints in power grid
expansion that the country was encountering during the 1990s. At that time, GoSL
recognized the inefficiencies of a purely public sector approach that relied entirely on the
financially and institutionally weak CEB. GoSL wished to facilitate a transition from the
public sector's monopoly in power generation to a market-based system that gave an
important role for private investors and renewable energy. The objectives of the ESDP
were to: (a) promote the provision of grid-connected and off-grid energy services by the
private sector, NGOs and cooperatives, using environmentally sustainable renewable
energy technologies; (b) strengthen the environment for implementing demand side
management (DSM); and (c) improve public and private sector performance to deliver
energy services through renewable energy and DSM.

        Overall, the ESDP's outcome is rated highly satisfactory. The ESDP achieved
(and in some cases, exceeded) its objectives by addressing technical, financial, policy and
information barriers to wider-scale renewable energy commercialization in Sri Lanka,
including rural and low-income markets. The project is innovative and applied lessons
from other projects in its design; some of its components are cross-sectoral (financial

                                              X



sector/micro-finance); and it featured a high degree of stakeholder participation. As a
result of ESDP, there is now a vibrant renewable energy industry in Sri Lanka offering
wide customer choice and competition both in range of products, services and financing
sources. The project led to improvements in the institutional and policy framework that
will have positive effects on future private participation in power, possibly going beyond
renewable energy. The ESDP also strengthened the foundations for adopting demand-
side management measures to reduce electricity consumption.

        The ESDP's sustainability is likely,judging from the continued growth in private
involvement in the renewables market and the robust returns from investments. The
project's institutional development impact is high, having contributed significantly to the
mainstreaming of stable and transparent institutions for commercializing renewable
energy. The maturity of institutional processes is evident from the ESDP's overall project
management, private and micro-financing innovations, end-user participation, and
stakeholder consultations. The Bank's performance is rated highly satisfactory. The
quality of the Bank's advice and inputs was consistently high during the design,
implementation, supervision and project closing stages, and was widely appreciated by
country clients and project stakeholders. The Borrower's performance is rated highly
satisfactory. The government's commitment helped ensure that national and sectoral
objectives were consistent, thus leveling the playing field between conventional and
renewable energy technologies.

        The ESDP yielded many important lessons of broad applicability as the Bank
expands its assistance for renewable energy, as part of its 2001 Energy Business
Renewable Strategy and 2003 Infrastructure Plan. These numerous lessons can be
clustered around three important areas: (a) building-up the business and policy
environment, addressing in particular the key barrier of access to capital; (b) scaling-up
the market, including a reliable after-sales service system and end-user training; and (c)
establishing strong project and financial management systems, including monitoring and
evaluation.




                                                                       Gregory K. Ingram
                                                                        Director-General
                                                                     Operations Evaluation

                                               1


Energy Services Delivery Project

INTRODUCTION

1.      The Energy Services Delivery Project (ESDP) was conceived at a time when
public sector investments in power generation in Sri Lanka lagged seriously behind
growing demand. While investments in new capacity for electricity generation had been
increasing by about 4.5 percent of GDP since 1990, they could not keep pace with power
demand, which was growing by at least 8 percent annually. Almost half of the population
(48 percent) was without access to the power grid, and prospects for being served through
by the system were nearly non-existent. Painful daily power cuts in 1996highlighted the
urgency of building new generating capacity and improving end-use efficiency. The
Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), however, was financially very weak mainly because
power tariffs were set artificially too low, and a purely public sector approach to
generation expansion proved to be highly inefficient. To address the situation, the
Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) decided to: (i) create a regulatory and policy
environment that would encourage private investments to supplement public resources;
and (2) improve the efficiency both in delivering energy services and final energy
consumption. The ESDP was designed to address deficient capacity and sector
inefficiency by fostering private provision of energy services.

PROJECT OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS AND FINANCING MECHANISMS

2.      Objectives. The ESDP's main objectives were to: (a) promote the provision of
grid-connected and off-grid energy services by the private sector, NGOs, and
cooperatives, using environmentally sustainable renewable energy technologies; (b)
strengthen the environment for implementing demand side management; and (c) improve
public and private sector performance to deliver energy services through renewable
energy and demand side management.

3.      Components. The ESDP had three principal components:

(a) The ESD Credit Component (US$48.9 million) was designed to provide private sector
firms, nongovernmental organizations, and cooperatives with medium- and long-term
financing for off-grid solar home systems and village hydro projects, and grid-connected
mini-hydro, wind, and other renewable energy investments. In addition to the IDA credit,
the Global Environment Facility (GEF) provided grant cofinancing to dealers and
developers of solar home systems and off-grid village hydro schemes.

(b) The Pilot, 3-MW Grid-Connected WindFarm Component (US$3.8 million), to
demonstrate the technical and commercial viability and long-run economic potential of
wind power in Sri Lanka, and to catalyze future private sector wind farm development.
The component was implemented by the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB).

(c) The Capacity-Building Component (US$2.6 million), to provide training and technical
support for renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives by both the public and
private sector, that is, CEB and energy service entrepreneurs.

                                                   2


4.       Project Implementation Arrangements. An Administrative Unit was established
in the DFCC Bank, one of the participating credit institutions, to provide overall project
management, that is, process loans and grant disbursement requests, maintain records,
compile program statistics, submit quarterly reports and catalyze as well as chair
quarterly meetings of the project stakeholders. This implementation arrangement has
been maintained under the ongoing, follow-on Renewable Energy and Rural Economic
Development (RERED) Project.

5.       Costs and Financing. The ESDP's total costs were estimated during appraisal at
US$55.3 million. Actual project costs amounted to US$44.3 million, and were financed
as shown in Table 1. The Ministry of Finance and Planning lent the IDA proceeds to
eligible participating credit institutions'(PC1s)at the Average Weighted Deposit Rate
(AWDR); those institutions in turn onlent these proceeds, along with their own
complementary financing, to eligible sub-borrowers at market rates and terms. The GEF
       covered business development costs and a one-time capital cost buy-down. The
grant also financed the off-grid promotional efforts, verification, and consumer protection
activities carried out by the Administrative Unit under DFCC. GEF's participation was
necessary in order to catalyze private developers, financiers, retailers and end-users into
creating market conditions and eventually a full-scale and self-sustaining
commercialization process.

Table 1: Project Costs and Sources of Financing

Source                                                               Appraisal          Actual
                                                                     estimate        (US$ million)
                                                                    (US$ million)

International DevelopmentAssociation                                    24.2             22.3
Global EnvironmentFacility                                               5.9               5.7
Participatingcredit institutions                                        13.7               4.8
Renewableenergy projectdevelopers,entrepreneurs,and end-users            9.6             10.7
Ceylon Electricity Board/Governmentof Sri Lanka                          1.9               1.3
    TOTAL                                                               55.3             44.8


6.       All physical targets were met or exceeded at about 20 percent lower cost in U.S.
dollar terms. The lower IDA and GEF disbursement figures are due to the appreciation of
the dollar against the SDR (Special Drawing Rights). The sharp decrease in the
contribution of participating credit institutions resulted from the increase in IDA
refinance from 60 percent to 80 percent, the lower-than-expected investment costs (in
dollars per kilowatt terms) for the minihydro and village hydro components, and the
conservative gearing ratios adopted by the participating credit institutions to minimize
financial risk.

7.       Financing Mechanisms. Of the three ESDP components, the DFCC Bank
participated only in the credit component and performed two independent roles: (i) as the
Administrative Unit (AU), but not the apex agency; and (ii) as a participating credit


1. These comprised the DFCC Bank, National Development Bank, Hatton National Bank, Sampath Bank,
Commercial Bank, and a microfinance institution, SEEDS.

                                              3


institution (PCI). GoSL assumed the credit risk of each individual PCI, and the PCIs
repay GoSL directly. The World Bank and GoSL drafted the eligibility criteria for PCIs.
The PCI-GoSL Participation Agreements were drafted by the AU and approved by the
Bank and GoSL. The AU facilitated the admission of PCIs, each of which were
approved by the Bank before the PCI-GoSL Participation Agreement is executed.
Subsequently, the AU monitored compliance annually and ensured that the PCIs
submitted their compliance certificates to the Bank.

8.      The active on-lenders were: DFCC Bank and National Development Bank (for
grid-connected minihydro); Hatton National Bank and DFCC Bank (for off-grid village
hydro); and SEEDS (for consumer financing of solar home systems). Disbursement
statistics on each of these PCIs are available in the ICR. The typical lending terms-
which were not materially different from the terms and conditions offered for other long-
term loans and microcredit are as follows:
                             -


        (a) Grid-Connected Mini Hydro
        Interest rate equal to AWDR plus 4 percent; maturity of 6 to 8 years including a
        grace period of 1to 2 years; secured on project assets

        (b) Off-Grid Village Hydro
        Interest rate equal to AWDR plus 4 to 6 percent; maturity of 6 to 8 years
        including a grace period of 6 to 12months; secured on project assets

        (c) Solar Home Systems
        Fixed interest rates equal to AWDR plus 10percent or more; maturity of 2 to 4
        years with no grace period; secured on project assets plus two guarantors from
        the village.

9.      The GEF's grant funding was used only for technical assistance and cofinancing
off-grid subprojects, and amounted to about 20 to 25 percent of the investment costs of
solar home systems and off-grid village hydro, as explained below:

         (a) Off-grid Village Hydro (OGVH)
        The Electricity Consumer Societies comprised of villagers received a cofinancing
        grant of US$4OO/kW, as well as project preparation assistance through an
        independent consultant.

        (b) Solar Home Systems (SHS)
        Solar companies received the output-based GEF cofinancing grant and a one-time
        business plan preparation assistance through an independent consultant. The solar
        companies had the freedom to decide whether to defray their costs in developing
        rural outreach schemes, reduce selling prices, seek or expand market shares, and
        so forth. Originally, the intention was for the solar companies to provide a
        complete package including consumer credit, thus qualifying them for refinance
        for each system sold on credit terms. Midway through implementation, SEEDS
        qualified for such refinance when consumer financing was assigned to a
        microfinance institution. However, the solar companies also needed loans to meet
        incremental permanent working capital. Each solar company received a

                                                      4


          maximum of one or two loans, as the amount financed had to be the incremental
          part of its permanent working capital requirements. These subloans were
          provided by the larger PCIs and not SEEDS.

          It is important not to confuse equipment financing (for the consumer) with
          working capital financing. IDA funds did not finance the `producer'. IDA
          funded the retailer (i-e.,the solar company) to meet only the incremental
          permanent working capital, which resulted injust one or two subloans being
          granted during the whole life of ESDP. Such subloans supported a different
          economic activity, and should not be confused with subloans for consumer
          financing where each SHS sold on credit qualifies for refinance.2

          (c) Technical Assistance
          Technical assistance activities included: conducting an off-grid promotion and
          awareness creation program; surveys; upgrading of technical specifications for
          OGVH; consultant panels for verification activities; stakeholder workshops;
          numerous capacity-building activities for SHS technicians, village hydro
          developers and induction generator controller manufacturers; support for the
          implementation of innovative ideas, and the like.

10.       All PCIs (including SEEDS) are repaying their loans and interest to GOSL
without any default. External auditors certify compliance with eligibility criteria. These
certifications are maintained in the World Bank's country office in Colombo. For solar
home systems, the collection ratio of SEEDS is 94%. For grid-connected mini-hydro, 8
out of 10projects by the National Development Bank have 100%collection ratios. Two
were rescheduled and are now performing well. The DFCC Bank and Sampath Bank
report a similar situation. For off-grid village hydro, some projects were affected by the
floods of 2003, but these problems have now been overcome. It must be noted that the
subloans provided by the commercial and development banks under ESDP are a
relatively small fraction of their respective total portfolios.




2. In consumer equipment financing for SHS, the asset financed is clearly identified by make, model, serial
number, etc. Funds are disbursed for a physically verifiable SHS, which includes a solar panel, battery,
lights, controller, wiring, switches, mounting charges, free services and warranty. It is a complete package
of hardware and service obligations reflected in a composite sellingprice to an identified customer. By
way of distinction, working capital financing (a financial concept) is not equipment financing (a physical
concept), given the fungible nature of working capital: the underlying assets, comprising a mix of
inventory, receivables and cash, less payables, would be continuously replaced by others belonging to the
same classification. Individual specimens of such current assets and current liabilities are not identified
specifically at the time of loan granting. Working capital is fluid, with a typical operating cycle of about
four months for the solar industry. The way that equipment financing and working capital financing are
secured also differ: SHS consumer loans were secured on specifically identified assets and personal
guarantees of one or two outsiders, whereas the incrementalpermanent worhng capital loans to solar
companies were secured on a floating mortgage of inventory, parent company guarantee, other company
assets, etc. The ESDP hnded only the incremental and not the cyclical part of working capital, as
evidenced by sustained business growth based on a business developmentplan.

                                                      5


RELEVANCE

 11.      The relevance of the project's objectives is rated as high. The ESDP's objectives are
consistent with and support the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of (i) fostering
environmentally sustainable energy development; (ii) promoting private sector delivery of
energy services; and (iii) enhancing energy sector effi~iency.~The project's objectives are also
consistent with the GEF's focus on removing market barriers to large-scale application of energy
efficient services, products, and technologies. The project's push for commercialization of
renewables is also relevant to Goal 7 of the Millennium Development Goals ("ensure
environmental sustainability") and its accompanying Target 9 ("integrate sustainable
development into country policies and reverse loss of environmental resources"). The ESDP
addresses three of the four core goals of the Bank's 2001 Energy Business Renewal Strategy
(EBRS): help the poor directly, through improved access; promote private sector development;
and protect the environment. Arguably, the ESDP also responds to the fourth EBRS objective,
that is, macro-fiscal balancing, since in 2002 grid-connected minihydro alone has generated
Rs400 million of avoided costs (for diesel-based power) for CEB. In that year, minihydro
facilities fed about 100Gigawatt hours of power to the grid, and could double this by 2005.

EFFICACY

12.       The project's efficacy is rated as high: its physical and capacity-building
objectives were achieved and in most cases its original targets were exceeded, as
shown in Table 2.


Table 2: Achievement of Objective Targets

Project Component                    Target at             Achieved by Project Closing in December
                                    Appraisal              2002
Grid-connectedminihydro by the      21 MW                  31 MW (involving about 10 private minihydro
privatesector                                              developers and 15 subprojects, with more
                                                           capacity planned)
PilotWind Farm                      3 MW                   3 MW wind farm commissioned in February
                                                           1999and certifiedin May 2000. Wind projects
                                                           as high as 30 MW being proposed by several
                                                           privatecompanies.
Solar Home Systems                  15,000 (revised :t     21,000 installedin rural homes as of end-2002.
                                    midterm review)        Four major vendors have invested in extensive
                                                           sales and distributionnetworks.About 1,000
                                                           systems were being installedper month by end-
                                                           2002.
Village Hydro Systems               250 kW through 20      350 kW through 35 village hydro systems
                                    systems serving        serving 1,732 households completed and
                                    2,000 households       certifiedby Chartered Engineers




3. CAS Report No. 15633-CE, with a Board date of May 21, 1996.

4. The ESDP initially targeted a market of 30,000 rural households for solar home systems, but fewer than
1,000 systems were installed by the project's midterm review in February 2000. After the problems related
to the financing terms and mechanisms were identified, the SHS target was cut in half to 15,000and
alternative financing approaches were developed.

                                                    6


13.      Minihydro, in particular, has been very successful. Development costs have
decreased from US$1,030 per kilowatt estimated at appraisal to an average of US$963.5
per kilowatt actually achieved. CEB has had to expand its staff from one engineer to three
engineers to cope with the high demand from private developers. In October 2003 there
were more than 100outstanding applications, and CEB had already issued Letters of
Intent (LOIs) for about 200 megawatts of capacity. CEB told the OED mission that there
is a guideline for minihydro to be 10to 15percent of total capacity, and this 200
megawatts of LOIs already exceeds this ceiling. This raises potential issues related to
system control and dispatch because as "embedded generation" (i.e., not originally
designed to be technically or formally part of, but connected to the main grid) minihydro
supplies are fed directly into the distribution system. CEB indicates that this technical
issue would effectively put a brake on issuance of LOIs and place a cap on fbrther
minihydro development.

14.      Solar home systems (SHS) expanded from two or three small operators to four
accredited companies selling a total of about 1,000 systems per month by project close in
end-2002. One year later, there were nine accredited companies, of which eight were
members of the Solar Industries Association.' Compared to the target of 15,000 units set
at the midterm review, more than 20,000 units were installed by end-2002. Actual
average costs are US$10 per peak Watt6today, compared to appraisal estimates of US$11
per peak Watt (total installed system costs).

15.      Off-grid village hydro (OGVH) was serving 1,732 households through charter
engineer-certified projects by December 2002, compared to 2,000 households estimated
at appraisal. However, installed capacity was 350 kilowatts against an appraisal estimate
of 250 kilowatts since per-household demand proved to be much greater at 200 watts per
household or more compared to the appraisal estimate of 100watts per household. A total
of 35 systems were implemented, far more than the original target of 20 systems. Another
50 projects were nearing completion or were in the process of being certified in October
2003, demonstrating the lag effect of capacity-building and promotional efforts put in
earlier to scale-up the market. These projects were implemented under the follow-on
RERED project.

16.      Thepilot windfarm component (five 46-meter towers with 600 kilowatt turbines
designed to supply a total annual capacity of around 4.5 gigawatt-hours) has catalyzed
significant private investor interest, thus leading CEB to issue an open tender for a 22-
megawatt wind farm in 2003. Total economic costs of US$1,175 per kilowatt compare
acceptably with expectations at appraisal. CEB continues to monitor and record
operational data to learn what issues must be addressed in integrating non-dispatchable
and intermittent wind power into the rest of the system.

17.      The ESDP also launched demand side management (DSM) programs at the CEB,
including: (a) a code of practice for energy-efficient commercial buildings; (b) increased


5. The market leaders include Shell Solar, Access Solar, Selco Solar, and Alpha Thermal, all of which had
participated in ESDP.

6. A peak watt (Wp) measures the `ideal'output of a PV system, when the panel is at 25' C and receiving
1000Watts per square meter of solar insolation.

                                              7


technical capacity to carry out energy audits and provide advice on energy efficiency
measures for commercial and industrial clients; (c) a load research study; and (d) an
appliance energy labeling program. The CEB continues to promote energy efficiency and
DSM, with target savings of approximately 82 gigawatt-hours per year of energy and
32.5 megawatts of demand capacity by the year 2006. The first energy service company
in Sri Lanka, LTL Energy, continues to operate successfully and three more companies
have begun operations. LTL Energy has about 20 clients, more than 100 energy
efficiency installations, and an annual turnover of Rs 20 million.

18.      Today, as a result of ESDP, there is a strong industry of renewable energy
developers, suppliers, consultants, and trainers in Sri Lanka. Whereas there were only a
handful of suppliers or developers before the project, there are now 11minihydro
developers, 9 accredited solar companies, and about 20 active village hydro developers.
Sri Lankan minihydro developers have started exploring Asian and African markets and
local renewables consultants have begun taking on regional assignments.

19.     More important than the above statistics, however, are the institutional and
broader developmental impacts of the project, of which major examples are as follows:

(a) Pioneering the Small Power Purchase Agreement (SPPA).A key achievement of the
ESDP was the successful resolution of the tariff determination issue between the CEB
and the developers, through the standardized SPPA that was developed under the ESDP.
The result has been growth in the number of both minihydro and wind power developers,
who are also exploring access to financial support from the Clean Development
Mechanism as a way of enhancing the financial viability of their projects.

(b) Working Through a Microfinance Institution. Midway through implementation, the
ESDP adapted flexibly to the initial difficulty of promoting consumer financing of solar
home systems through solar companies, by designing a microfinance model in
partnership with a key nongovernmental organization (NGO), the Sarvodaya Economic
Enterprise Development Services (SEEDS). This resulted in the expansion of the ESDP's
reach to a much larger number of rural solar home system consumers. Toward the latter
part of ESDP, SEEDS also helped bridge the financing needs of a few small electricity
cooperative societies that were formed to build, own, and operate the village hydro
projects. SEEDS reported good collection rates exceeding 90 percent, although the highly
decentralized, door-to-door, manual system makes it difficult to have a full financial
picture specifically for their solar home system operations.

(c) Brokering Village-levelPartnerships. Throughout project implementation, the ESDP
actively brokered partnerships with NGOs and community-based organizations including
through regular stakeholder meetings. This extensive effort was most evident in
identifying, organizing, and developing village hydro projects. Most participating credit
institutions, however, did not pursue these OGVH projects actively, with the exception of
Hatton National Bank (15 projects) and DFCC Bank (14 projects), who between them
financed 83 percent of OGVH projects.

(d) Promoting Local Business and Increasing Lender Confidence. The ESDP enabled
existing vendors of solar home systems to expand their current market, and new ones to
be established to respond to growing demand. Local hydro consultants have also

                                                8


increased in response to the growth in demand for their technical services. The ESDP has
made hydro project development more attractive to private investors, especially with the
resolution of the tariff issue through the SPPA. The project also gave Sri Lanka's
financial community a new exposure to renewable energy and rural electrification
projects, fostered their market responsiveness through innovative financing mechanisms,
and gave them increased confidence that not all renewable energy projects fall under the
high-risk category. As a result, a higher number of PCIs are participating in the follow-on
RERED project, including leasing companies for the first time. All PCIs continue to meet
eligibility criteria based on measures of profitability, liquidity, solvency, and collection
performance, as confirmed annually by external auditors. A new development apparent in
the RERED project is that financing of off-grid renewable energyprojects has been
embraced by non-PCIs as well, bringing greater customer choice and competition in the
financial sector. For example, credit facilities for solar home systems are now being
offered by a well-established finance company, a state-owned commercial bank, and a
new "bank" in the North East province. Similarly, credit facilities for OGVH projects are
being provided by a provincial rural development bank. Being ineligible to become PCIs,
none of these institutions receive refinance from the RERED project. These
developments, catalyzed by ESDP, demonstrate a shift in the mindset of lending
institutions in financing renewable energy projects in Sri Lanka.

EFFICIENCY

20.      The ESDP's efficiency is rated substantial. With the exception of the wind farm
component, the project's recalculated economic internal rates of return (EIRR) are
significantly above those estimated at appraisal, as shown in Table 3.


Table 3: Project Rate of Return

Component                  EIRR at Appraisal (YO)   EIRR at Closing (%)
Grid-connected minihydro            18           26 (announcedtariff basis)
Off-grid village hydro              12             18 (avoidedcost basis)
Solar home systems                  12                      42.6
Wind farm                           14                      3.9


The minihydro EIRR may have been underestimated, since it is based on CEB's
announced tariff, which is likely to be lower than actual avoided cost. The village hydro
EIRRwould be 54percent if consumer surplus is considered in addition to avoided costs,
and 61 percent if the GEF grant is factored in. These high EIRRs were achieved because
capacity factors were significantly greater in practice than was assumed at appraisal, and
willingness-to-pay for electric service has become much higher as a result of greater
expenditures on kerosene and batteries (before electric service) as a result of large real
income gains since 1996. The ERR for solar home systems reflects the observed
willingness-to-pay that far exceeds replacement costs of kerosene and battery-charging
equipment. The low EIRR for the wind component is a result of capacity factors that
were substantially lower than were estimated at appraisal. Actual wind speeds were much
lower than the bid estimates of wind turbine suppliers. Moreover, site selection proved
problematic, as environmental NGOs opposed the best site (which was close to a wildlife
reserve) and the Sri Lankan Air Force objected to the second-best site. Finally, the

                                                      9


turbine power curve assumptions in the feasibility study could not be matched by the
equipment actually offered at the time of tender.

21.      Financial internal rates of return were difficult to recalculate due to unavailability
of information, as private investors are unwilling to divulge their margins and returns.
For the grid-connected minihydro component, the final FIRR is estimated at 24 percent,
compared to 13percent at appraisal, based on a representative project reflecting average
costs (US$1,025 per kilowatt and 43 percent plant factor) and technical performance. The
FIRRs for the village hydro and solar home system components are not available, but for
the solar component, equity returns are likely to be greater that 20 percent for solar home
systems based on strong private investor interest, compared to 19percent at appraisal.
Overall, based on interviews with financial intermediaries, equipment suppliers and end-
users, the renewable energybusiness in Sri Lanka has yielded sound financial returns and
expects further expansion.


OUTCOME

22.      The project outcome is rated highly satisfactory (the ICR rating is
satisfactory), as indicated above by the relevance rating of "high", efficacy rating of
"high", and efficiency rating of "substantial". Analysis of the project documents and
extensive field interviews indicate that the ESDP successfully achieved its objectives, and
exceeded them in some cases. The project promoted the provision of renewable energy
services by the private sector, NGOs, and cooperatives -- including rural and low-income
markets -- and improved public and private sector performance. The project is innovative
and applied lessons from other projects in its design; some of its components are cross-
sectoral (financial sector/micro-finance); and it featured a high degree of stakeholder
participation. By effectively addressing technical, financial, policy, and information
barriers, the project was able to lay the foundations in Sri Lanka for a wider-scale
renewable energy commercialization and energy efficiency program.

23.     Average power demand is around 800 megawatts, of which 5 percent is now
minihydro-based. According to the Ministry of Power, 200 megawatts more are needed
by 2004, wherein minihydro can contribute up to 40 megawatts more in addition to the 40
megawatts already installed, of which 31megawatts were completed with ESDP
assistance (see table below). The GEF grants of about US$lOO per solar home system and
US$400 per kilowatt of installed village microhydro were directly instrumental in
supporting market development for solar home system and village hydro industries,
respectively (although there are reported complaints that the GEF grant is disbursed too
late, sometimes as late as 18months after the final disbursement of the sub-loan from the
participating credit institution).' The ESDP's implementation framework was well
designed, leading to significant gains in (i) commercializing grid-connected minihydro
and wind power, as well as off-grid village or microhydro power, and (ii) promoting the
use of solar home systems on a wide scale. The ESDP also helped strengthen the basis for



7. This GEF cofinancing grant is released only after the release of the project completion certificate issued
by an independent chartered engineer, who may recommend remedial work to ensure compliance with
ESDP technical specifications for O G W .

                                                     10


adopting demand side management (DSM) measures to help reduce consumption of grid-
based electricity.

24.      An important measure of outcome is the project's impact on the final energy end-
users. Detailed interviews of 100solar home system customers and 50 off-grid village
hydro consumers analyzed the social and economic impacts of receiving off-grid electric
services. The solar home system and OGVH customers all acknowledged the
improvement in their quality of life as a result of having a cleaner, more reliable source
of electricity. The benefits included: (i) the ability of women to continue their household
work at night; (ii) longer studying hours for school-age children and perceived
improvements in the educational performance; (iii) extended entertainment hours and
improved family interaction; (iv) increased feeling of safety; and (v) better health
conditions with the elimination of the fumes from kerosene lamps. Interestingly, the
survey yielded little evidence that access to electricity from solar home systems or
OGVH has significantly increased economic or income-generating activities, although
data indicates that typically around 30 to 60 people per OGVH are employed seasonally
during construction. Solar home systems provide power that is barely sufficient to meet
basic household lighting and entertainment needs. OGVH should have greater potential
for income-generating activities and deserves further field studies.


SUSTAINABILITY

25.      The ESDP's sustainability is rated likely,judging from the continuing, private
sector-driven expansion of the renewables market and the robust returns fiom
investments. While starting out as a pilot initiative, the ESDP succeeded in establishing
the financial and institutional framework for a sustainable renewable energy industry in
Sri Lanka. This expansion is being supported further by the follow-on Rural and
Renewable Energy Development (RERED) project, as well as the opening up of the
northern and eastern parts of the country following the cessation of hostilities through a
ceasefire agreement.

26.      More important to sustainability are the economic fundamentals of the Sri Lankan
renewable energy industry. The introduction of new technology was founded on market
principles: for grid-connected minihydro, the systems had to be the least-cost option
compared to their competitor products; and for solar home systems and village hydro, the
incremental cost of the systems need to be in line with the global incremental costs and
demonstrate a clear declining path due to economies of scale. Participating credit
institutions expect to remain interested in financing renewables because of the existence
of a floor price and a reliable SPPA, which CEB has honored, and the "escrow account"
procedure*wherein CEB payments to the hydro developer are put in escrow in order to
finance plant operation and maintenance, and to service debt. These underlying principles
bring down the risk profile, generate private sector interest, and lead the investors to
expect reasonable returns and continued renewable industry growth even after the
external GEF grant support is withdrawn. RERED incorporates declining grant
mechanisms, such that grants for solar home systems will be phased out completely and


8. Applied by most PCIs, which enter into an Escrow Agreement with the project sponsor once the project
is in operation. The Agreement is negotiated during the hydro project appraisal.

                                               11


those for community-driven projects will be reduced to levels that can be sustained by the
government's own programs. Three provinces have now started providing grants in the
range of Rs 100,000to Rs 600,000 per village hydro project, depending on capacity and
the number of beneficiaries. The Intermediate Technology Development Group-Sri
Lanka played an important role in mobilizing the Provincial Councils to provide this
assistance.

27.     Toward the latter years of ESDP, the Uva Provincial Council with the assistance
                                                                        -
of the Administrative Unit piggybacked on ESDP to set up an independent solar home
                              -
system subsidy scheme for beneficiaries of the Uva Province, using its own decentralized
budget for rural electrification. This subsidy scheme, which proved to be successful, has
been expanded under RERED to cover three provinces that have the lower electrification
rates in the country, namely, North East, Uva, and Sabaragamuwa. The solar home
systems subsidy scheme under RERED uses counterpart funds from the central
government and is managed by the Administrative Unit. This scheme is intended to be a
precursor to a technology-neutral rural electrification subsidy program to be implemented
nationally following a RERED-funded consultancy study to be completed in 2004.

28.     While some continuation of subsidies are still required, cofinancing grants per
SHS are lower under RERED than the level provided under ESDP, and are being phased
out entirely. Similarly, the project preparation grant for OGVH is also lower.

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT

29.     The ESDP's institutional development impact is rated high. The project has
contributed significantly to the creation of stable and transparent institutions for
renewable energy commercialization in Sri Lanka, as evidenced by the evolution of
project management, private financing and microfinancing, and end-user participation, as
discussed below. Project records show that while capacity building initially was
conducted project-by-project, these efforts were bundled as market uptake accelerated
(for example, technical training for hundreds of solar home system installers; integration
of formal training in renewables in standard school curricula; a process of "innovation
solicitation" from among industry players to stimulate further market growth).

30.     An Administrative Unit was established in the DFCC Bank to be responsible for
processing loan and grant disbursement requests, maintaining records, compiling
program statistics, and submitting quarterly reports. The Administrative Unit and PCI
functions of the DFCC Bank were kept separate and independent to avoid conflicts of
interest. Initially, the project archives show that, although the Administrative Unit was
highly adept in banking rules and administrative procedures, especially with respect to
application and disbursement of the IDA credit and the GEF grant, it was not familiar or
fully effective with the promotion of the ESD components themselves. The highly
capable management and staff of the unit were able to address this issue by stepping up
its outreach to all ESDP stakeholders, which also required ESDP to recognize the need to
expand the original scope of work for the Administrative Unit to include numerous
project support activities. The unit provided extensive technical support to subproject
developers, and training on ESDP operations to participating credit institutions (PCIs).
The unit still meets quarterly with stakeholders to identify implementation issues and

                                              12


resolve problems. Understanding the lag effect in a market development exercise of this
nature, DFCC Bank itself was willing to sustain losses for the first three years of ESDP,
until disbursements picked up and the Administrative Unit became financially self-
sustaining.

31.     The PCIs, which were commercial and licensed specialized banks, also proved
early on to be ill suited for the financing needs of small, off-grid solar home system and
village hydro systems. At the same time, the solar home system vendors, who were
expected to provide consumer financing (with recourse to refinance from the ESDP credit
line) were unwilling or unable to lend to consumers, thus leaving a financing vacuum. It
was clear that a microfinance institution with an established rural network and
community-based approach was required, which led to the eventual accreditation of
SEEDS as a PCI. With the involvement of SEEDS, the solar component took off
dramatically: home system vendors were relieved of the consumer financing burden, for
which they quickly proved ineffective early in the project, thus allowing them to
concentrate on marketing, installation and servicing of solar systems. The off-grid village
hydro (OGVH) developers also had initial difficulties in setting up Electricity Consumer
Societies and convincing PCIs to lend to this sector. OGVH projects eventually scaled-up
during the second half of ESDP, supported by a few successful OGVH projects that
provided a demonstration effect and an ESDP-funded capacity-building program for
project developers.

32.     Finally, stakeholder participation and consultation was high. The project's hydro
components (grid-connected minihydro and off-grid village hydro) provide two
examples. The local small power developers association played a key role in the success
of the grid-connected minihydro component, by effectively voicing the concerns of
minihydro project developers regarding the transparency of the tariff computation
methodology adopted and the data inputs used by CEB for small power purchases. In the
absence of an independent regulator, a strong industry voice was necessary to keep a
monopolistic state-owned utility in check. It was a consensus among evaluation
informants that the Small Power Purchase Agreement (SPPA), which was prepared
through the ESDP,was highly instrumental in enabling private investments in renewable
energy services through the application of a transparent, standardized, and predictable
agreement, as well as a non-negotiable tariff, the lack of which impeded the development
of small grid-connected power projects. The ESDP also improved the capabilities of local
off-grid hydro developers and users to organize themselves and to collectively manage
and monitor projects, as residents had to form rural electricity cooperatives or societies,
and then assume responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the installation. Regarding
the solar photovoltaic component, ESDP supported the formation of an industry
association and channeled technical assistance for technician training. The association
also provided useful inputs in modifying the ESDP Operating Guidelines and solar home
system technical specifications based on circumstances and experience gained.

33.     The assessment mission attended the October 2003 quarterly stakeholders'
meeting convened and chaired by the Administrative Unit, during which the effective
consultation processes among stakeholders were evident. Suppliers of village hydro
equipment were proposing standardized warranties and seeking agreement on service
standards, such as less than one week for responses to complaints, repair or replacement

                                              13


within two weeks, and three weeks maximum from the time of the complaint to full
functioning of the system. The expansion of accredited solar companies to nine (two
morejoined in the preceding two months) also attested to the continued expansion of the
solar industry. Auditors were also hired recently to do on-site verifications, and it was
reported that they found some blank warranty cards, there was a mismatch between
copies given to the Administrative Unit and those kept by the consumers (and that these
had different languages), and other issues. Overall, the mission observed a high degree of
willingness to discuss problems, suggest solutions, and share information among the
ESDP stakeholders, which has been maintained in the ongoing RERED project.

BANK PERFORMANCE

34.     The assessment agrees with the recommendation made by the GoSL in its
Borrower's Evaluation (Annex B of the Implementation Completion Report) that Bank
performance should be rated highly satisfactory (the ICR's rating is satisfactory). The
quality of the Bank's advice was high during the project design, implementation, and
closing stages (the ICR process, which benefited from an "Impact Assessments and
Lessons Learned" study and a stakeholder survey, is exemplary). Quality at entry was
high. ESDP's conception was marked by extensive multi-stakeholder consultations, and
benefited from a number of studies financed by the Bank's Asia Alternative Energy Unit
(ASTAE) and Project Preparation Facility, and the GEF. A key study is the development
of the Small Power Purchase Agreement, although the risks in its implementation were
underestimated. Such institutional capacity issues were well researched and addressed
through GEF funds.

35.     Project records also indicate that the design of ESDP's credit program took into
account the lessons learned from the successful Private Finance Development Project
(Credit 2484-CE). This design benefited from internal consultations with the Bank's
financial sector advisory team. It featured the selection of an Administrative Unit
arrangement rather than on-lending through an apex financial institution, project
administration by the Administrative Unit within a private entity (the DFCC Bank) on
contract to the government, and on-lending terms based on market conditions. The Bank
also took anticipatory care by creating a wall between the Administrative Unit and
DFCC's own lending operations as a PCI. The initial subproject pipeline was robust;
US$58 million of hydro and solar projects had already been identified for financing, and
more than 30 villages made use of the GEF Project Preparation Advance to prepare
village hydro projects ranging from 1.5to 60 kilowatts. Moreover, during project
preparation, the Operating Guidelines for the credit program were already in place, PCI
eligibility criteria had been established, and GoSL was already in advanced discussions
with several PCIs.

36.     The records also show consistent, high quality supervision, which benefited from
strong GEF budgetary support. The supervision missions included field visits and
coincided with quarterly stakeholder consultation meetings. The missions included
technical, financial, economic, environmental, procurement, and disbursement specialists,
as required. Supervisory inputs from the Bank's Colombo office were also high,
particularly in the areas of financial management and procurement advice. There was a
high degree of continuity in the task team, and the supervision documents show the

                                                14


Bank's strong attention to identifying and devising solutions, including workshops to (i)
identify barriers to market uptake of solar home systems and (ii) solicit innovative ways
to improve the pipeline of village hydro projects. At the mid-term review, the Bank
correctly diagnosed key constraints to solar market development among rural consumers,
and showed flexibility as well as innovativeness in resolving the issues. The Bank team
identified these constraints as: (i) the unwillingness of the vendors of solar home systems
to borrow from the ESDP's approved PCIs and provide consumer financing themselves;
and (ii) the constraint faced by most of the PCIs in extending microfinance directly to
solar system consumers. The solar home systems target was revised to 15,000.The Bank
also recommended close partnership with an NGO with a proven and effective record in
rural microfinance (SEEDS), as an alternative approach to consumer finance, which
resulted in successfully reversing the failure to implement that component until that
point.

37.     Finally, the Bank piloted output-based grant financing by providing GEF grants to
cover some of the private incremental costs of introducing renewable energy
technologies. The grants were disbursed only after pre-defined results were achieved an  -
approach that was replicated in the Uva province when it became clear that its budget for
grid-based rural electrification could support at least three times more households
through an off-grid solar program that worked in tandem with ESDP.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

38.     The borrower's performance is rated highly satisfactory. Government
commitment is very important to ensure that national and sectoral objectives are
consistent, thus enabling renewable energy to compete with other technologies on a level
playing field. The GoSL played a critical role from the inception to the closing of the
ESDP. Project records show the strong support of the Director-General of External
Resources in the Ministry of Finance, which continued throughout the project and was
tested and demonstrated through: (i) the rationalization of import duties on photovoltaic
modules, which removed a major barrier to their widespread use; (ii) upgrading the status
of microfinance institutions to PCIs subject to their meeting pre-defined eligibility
criteria; and (iii) timely actions to resolve the minihydro tariff issue. The Ministry of
Finance also was an effective liaison between various financial institutions, provincial
governments, and private investors.

39.     GoSL played an active role in addressing NGO concerns during the construction
of the wind farm facility. It also helped resolve the minihydro tariff issue with CEB and
in establishing a predictable framework for small power purchases, which facilitated the
implementation of small hydro projects. The Small Power Purchase Agreement served as
a standardized, legally binding agreement between small producers and CEB, thus
replacing the costly and cumbersome process of individually negotiating each small
project. While costing ESDP only $200,000 to prepare, these regulations facilitated more
than 30 megawatts of private power within five years, with several more projects in the
pipeline. Toward project closing, GoSL also introduced its Rural Electrification Policy,
which promoted environmentally sustainable, market-based provision of rural energy
services.

                                                  15


40.      The performance of the management and staff of the ESDP's implementing
agency, the Administrative Unit at the DFCC Bank, was also highly satisfactory.

LESSONS LEARNED

41.      The ESDP's unique design for implementation can serve as a model for other
rural electrification initiatives with renewable energy and energy efficiency components.
The ESDP lesson with potentially the broadest applicability is its demand-driven and
commercially focused approach of enabling multiple stakeholders to overcome financial,
institutional, and market barriers associated with small-scale renewable energy and the
promotion of energy efficiency. Throughout implementation, this required a strong and
consistent emphasis on establishing strategic and working partnerships between the
central government, Provincial Councils, the Ceylon Electricity Board, commercial and
development banks, a microfinancing institution, private developers, contractors and
consultants, industry associations, equipment vendors, rural electricity cooperatives, and
consumers. It also required a stable, competent, and highly proactive Administrative Unit
with multi-disciplinary capabilities to manage project coordination and implementation,
which proved to be a key element in successfully broad-scaling private investments to
commercialize renewable energy technologies.

42.      The ICR provides an excellent and detailed section on lessons learned, which
benefited from a stakeholders' survey and a full-scale, independent report.' The lessons
can be clustered around three main actions:

(i)Build the business andpolicy environment

43.      The key barrier of access to capital must be addressed as a priority, be it for
longer-term loans (sought by project developers), for credit assistance to improve
affordability (required for village hydro and solar electricity consumers), or for working
capital (needed by entrepreneurs). Sri Lanka has the advantage of having a long
experience with minihydro dating back from the establishment of the tea estates (that is,
good maps, existing roads, and good rainfall data), as well as financial institutions (such
as DFCC Bank and National Development Bank [NDB] that were already lending to
small and medium enterprises, as well as to a variety of large infrastructure projects,
before ESDP. Even before ESDP and the SPPA became realities, DFCC Bank had
pioneered the financing (with debt and equity) of the country's first-ever private sector
minihydro project that was set up to sell power exclusively to the CEB grid. Under
ESDP, the two development banks DFCC and NDB, by virtue of their in-house
engineering capabilities, spearheaded the financing of grid-connected minihydro, often
syndicating their loans with other commercial banks that were PCIs. Today, commercial
banks have gained sufficient confidence to lend to this sector by themselves. While prior
experience is important, microfinance institutions can play a significant role in providing
consumer financing for solar home systems and term loans to community-based
organizations for developing small and medium off-grid renewable energy projects.
Although microfinance institutions and rural development banks are in general more


9. International Resources Group. World Bank/Sri Lanka Energy Services Delivery Project: Impact
Assessment and Lessons Learned. Washington DC, March 2003.

                                               16


suited for financing rural energy services rather than larger commercial banks and main
vendors of solar home systems, exceptions do exist, such as the continuing role played by
Hatton National Bank and DFCC Bank as leaders in financing off-grid village hydro
projects.

44.     Unfavorable aspects of the overall investment environment must be addressed: for
small hydro developers, a transparent and standardized contracting and tariff arrangement
(the SPPA) is essential; for dealers of solar home systems, high import costs and the lack
of consumer financing needed to be resolved; and for village hydro developers, access to
favorable credit terms and reliable manufacturers of turbines and induction generator
controllers were required before they could enter rural areas and stimulate demand for a
mini-grid among small communities.

(ii)Scale-up the Market

45.     In addition to the adoption of market-based principles, several measures need to
be taken to foster continued growth in the renewables industry. First, a reliable after-sales
service system needs to be established. In Sri Lanka, the solar industry responded very
well and now has more than 100 sales and service outlets throughout the country,
developed through foreign and local private investment. Second, information technology
should be introduced in the operations of participating microfinance institutions, which in
the case of ESDP reduced turnaround time of loan approvals for solar systems from more
than 3 months to less than 30 days. Third, consumers should be trained properly in the
operation, maintenance, and limitations of their systems, particularly to self-diagnose
technical problems (such as loose wiring connections, shading over photovoltaic
modules, tripping of village hydro distribution circuits, keeping distribution poles free of
rot and termite attack) and avoid over-usage. This is especially important as systems
grow older and components start failing. Solar systems need special watching and
improvements, as complaints have increased (in absolute numbers, but not per capita)
about system malfunctions. Some consumers indicate a preference and willingness-to-pay
for grid connection if ever feasible for their remote area, since the 200 watts per
household provided by microhydro or the subsistence-level electrification provided by
solar home systems are limited and do not permit the addition of more appliances or
leisure uses.

                                                    17


46.       The stakeholders' survey indicated that rural consumers are willing to pay more
for their energy use, as long as the supply is reliable, safe, and of a high quality as is   -
demonstrated by hydro and solar energy compared to the use of kerosene, which poses
health risks in addition to inconvenience of use. Community contributions (in cash and
kind) to the implementation and management of off-grid village hydro is crucial to
project success. In Sri Lanka, families contributed their time to civil works and
construction of distribution lines, as well as the supply of poles, sand, and other materials
in kind, which were assigned equivalent cash amounts and deducted from their actual
required payments. These contributions brought a sense of project ownership and a desire
to ensure successful implementation."

(iii)Establish Robust Project and Financial Management Systems

47.       Competent project management proved essential to ESDP's successful
implementation, as were accounting, record-keeping and financial reporting systems that
were timely and comprehensive. Particularly noteworthy is the performance of the
Administrative Unit in: (i) brokering partnerships among multiple stakeholders; (ii)
quickly assimilating the underlying technologies; and (iii) setting up a financial
management system for monitoring and disbursing against loan refinancing applications
from PCIs, as well as verifying and releasing grant disbursements, including the tracking
of over 20,000 solar home systems. In practice, these enabled the Bank and the borrower
to be flexible in project design (for example, the certification of a microfinance institution
to reverse the slow uptake of solar home systems in rural areas, and the relative ease in
revising the Operating Guidelines to improve systems and procedures) and to introduce
output-based aid approaches (such as the tying of project development consulting
contracts to concrete deliverables).

REMAINING CHALLENGES

48.      At the overall power sector level, the weaknesses in regulations and the slowness
in reforms was not detrimental to the ESDP because the renewables market has
developed mainly among communities that do not have grid access or expect any in the
near future. Whereas in India," the post-reform backtracking and arbitrariness of some
state regulatory agencies have affected the financial viability of small power producers
(particularly small hydro), power reform legislation and regulation is at its initial stages
in Sri Lanka. Many important issues have arisen, as discussed below.

49.      Micro-grid service providers should not be left out of the reform process. Will 10-
to 50-kilowatt microhydro units have to jump through complex regulatory hoops to
provide service to a small community? This issue is ignored by current laws, which only
allows CEB as the monopoly distributor of electricity. Consequently, Electricity


10.In Sri Lanka, "shramadana," (voluntary work), is a popular mechanism used to galvanize community
participation to achieve a common goal. Based on an ESDP survey of two hydro districts (Ratnapura and
Kegalle) in June and July 2002,43 percent of households contributed between 20 to 39 days to hydro
projects, and 33 percent contributed more than 60 days.

11. See OED's Project Performance Assessment Report for the India-Renewable Resources Development
Project, dated October 21,2003 (Report No. 27076).

                                                     18


Consumer Societies, although producing electricity, are not legally recognized and have
to join "backdoor" by being officially classified as consumers and not as power producers
or distributors. Some minihydro investors have indicated CEB's resistance to negotiating
with a large number of small producers, compared to dealing with only one or two large
private developers. Open market transmission of "green power' is also not permitted
currently, and would raise important tariff issues if considered.

50.     On the issue of stranded costs, what will happen if the CEB grid reaches a village
while the community is still paying off its microhydro plant and minigrid loan? Will CEB
or the planned private power distribution companies agree to connect the microhydro
plant to the grid and buy power, or will it be disregarded as too small to bother about? If
systems less than 25 kilowatts are exempted from regulations, how will safety and
compliance with technical standards be ensured, and by whom? While the contribution of
non-grid-connected hydro is small, it is directly related to the Bank's strategy of helping
the poor directly through improved energy access. Therefore, these issues of potential
"disconnect" between the 2002 Electricity Reform Act, the policy directions taken by the
new Public Utilities Commission, and the future of decentralized energy systems, need to
be addressed as the Sri Lankan power sector reforms are being designed, and not
afterward when regulations are already in place.'*

51.     Under the follow-on RERED project, where solar and village hydro programs are
being scaled up, there is a need to strengthen the participation of the new micro credit
providers if solar home systems and other small-scale isolated gridcooperatives are to
develop further. The high dependence on SEEDS for solar consumer financing under
ESDP has been mitigated through the entry of four other PCIs -twoleasing companies
(LOLC and Ceylinco Leasing), a development bank (Sanasa), and a commercial bank
(Seylan)  -  while a few non-PCIs too have also entered the financing market for solar
home systems. Following a strong interest shown by finance companies, a study has been
commissioned by the Administrative Unit to consider the admission of registered finance
companies as a new category of PCIs for providing micro credit to solar consumers and
OGVH electricity consumer societies. Moreover, in designing rural electrification
subprojects, RERED needs to give added emphasis to income-generation components
and the integration of productive uses from electricity access. This aspect has been
addressed in the RERED design, both in the Operating Guidelines and through periodic
`innovation solicitation' exercises initiated by the Administrative Unit. The first round of
`innovation solicitation' resulted in four contracts being awarded by the Administration
Unit to stimulate rural income-generation activities using OGVH and solar technologies.
An invitation for expressions of interest for the second round of proposals was advertised
by the Administrative Unit in February 2004 and will be kept open throughout the year.
Health and education organizations providing rural services should also integrate energy
provision in their programs. This has been addressed through a separate Cross-sectoral
Energy Applications component in the RERED design, on which work is already
underway. RERED'Sfinancing terms are also under greater scrutiny: as was found in
India, some hydro developers (through their Small Hydro Associations) have found that
commercial banks can sometimes have better terms.


12. These important issues are discussed with case studies in: Navroz Dubash (ed.). Power Politics: Equity
and Environment in Electricity Reform. Washington, DC: World Resources Institute, 2002.

                                                      19


52.      Some SHS vendors have argued that the "poverty focus" of the Bank and the GEF
grant RERED is harming the expansion of the solar industry because it limits the grants
to systems of 60 peak Watts or less, with the maximum size for grant eligibility being
gradually reduced to 40 peak Watts and finally 20 peak Watts. The most popular system
size presently is around 40 peak Watts, which supports about four lights and a black-and-
white television. The SHS vendors' claim that there is no market for the smaller systems
has to be balanced with their own short-term profit maximization strategy of focusing on
larger systems that command better margins and entail lower service costs per unit of
sales revenue. Nevertheless, the Bank should assess whether the grant phase-out formula
is introducing any distortions in the sizing and design of SHS.

53.      Private developers also see RERED as more administratively labor-intensive and
cumbersome compared to ESDP. Procurement and environmental safeguard aspects
under RERED have been tightened across the board, and while they may comply with
Bank requirements, their relevance and benefits are not fully apparent or convincing to
the project stakeholders who are required to apply them. RERED now effectively
requires competitive bidding (`established commercial practice') for all procurements
that are less than the threshold for international competitive bidding, whereas some
developers consider their 1-to 2-megawatt systems too small to be able to bid
competitively.l3 This requirement also applies to tiny procurements involving off-grid
village hydros. The tighter documentation of environmental safeguards, which entail
another independent review over and above the national Central Environmental Authority
clearance, appears to developers as overkill for off-grid village hydro (OGVH) systems.
Given the clean environmental record of OGVH under ESDP, the industry strongly
believes that this Bank-imposed additional environmental certification for OGVH is
another unwarranted bureaucratic barrier that only increases loan processing time.

54.      Finally, the welfare impacts of improved energy access and the achievement of
DSM targets should be monitored and evaluated under the ongoing RERED project, to
help maintain the sustainability of the ESDP's achievements. This is being addressed
through a consultancy assignment for the design and implementation of a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation system. Under the ESDP design, OGVH projects were to be
supervised by PCIs during the tenure of their loans, which typically ranged from 5 to 8
years. PCIs have tended to treat OGVH projects like any other loan client, with the
primary focus being on loan and interest recovery in the succeeding years, with little
technical follow-up after the Installation Verification Report had been issued by a
chartered engineer upon project completion. Grid-connected mini hydro (GCMH)
installations, by contrast, appear to be better supervised, which would seem counter-
intuitive since micro hydro village installations have lower profitability and need more
technical support. However, from a PCI point of view, it could be argued that it is much
`easier' to supervise a professionally managed GCMH and show good results, and that
supervision expenses incurred shouldjustify the value of investment at risk.



13. Some developers argue that each small hydro developmentmust have its own specifications, and that
their required equipment is not available off-the-shelf from several manufacturers. This renders the
requirement for three independent quotations meaningless, since in the end only the manufacturer who can
meet specifications qualifies, and the others who cannot come in at higher costs.

                                               20


55.      While hindsight provides good insights, it should be remembered that a heavily
structured approach at ESDP inception could well have stifled a nascent OGVH industry
that had only seen ad hoc donor-funded projects until then. To address the remaining
problems of OGVH, including those stemming from projects executed outside ESDP, the
Administrative Unit set up a Village Hydro Working Group in 2003 to facilitate closer
consultations and is introducing several progressive measures, including: post-installation
verification of problem projects, registration of suppliers and developers, dissemination
of key facts to electricity consumer societies and all other stakeholders through a freely
distributed booklet prepared by the Administrative Unit, capacity building of electricity
consumer societies through a series of training programs, introduction of performance
standards for suppliers, and working with the National Engineering Research and
Development Centre (NERDC) to commission a micro hydro turbine test facility at
NERDC. The RERED project recently assisted NERDC to obtain IS0 17025
accreditation for its solar photovoltaic test facility, which will be a boon to the domestic
solar industry.



Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project

56.     The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) has been an important beneficiary of IDA
assistance in Sri Lanka's power sector. IDA'Sinvolvement in the sector started in 1954
with the expansion of the Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectric scheme. Since then, IDA
has made 11credits for power sector development intended to help meet power demand
at least cost, improve the quality and reliability of supply, and promote institutional
reforms. The Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project (henceforth, Second
Power) was probably the last IDA-supported project; there has been no power lending
relationship since 1998, and no further energy infrastructure lending is planned in the
2003 Country Assistance Strategy. Consequently, it was very difficult for the OED
assessment mission to obtain current data from CEB (or from the Asian Development
Bank, which was in the midst of an operational and financial review and could not
provide up-to-date information). In the absence of a continuous operational relationship
since 1998when this project was closed, CEB was also reluctant to discuss and share
information other than technical and implementation aspects directly related to the
Second Power Project.

57.     Historically, GoSL has given hydropower development a high priority, and has
initiated reforms since the early-l990s, of which one main target was to address the
fragmentation of distribution and the resulting technical inefficiencies, inability to meet
demand, and high cost structure. Traditionally, in addition to CEB, the Lanka Electric
Company Limited (LECO) and 212other local licensees distributed and sold electricity.
A Distribution Master Plan (DMP) for development of the distribution system was
prepared under the Ninth Power Project (Cr. 1736)closed in 1994,which led to GoSL's
decision to implement a phased takeover of all licensees by CEB and LECO. Much of
this takeover program (156 licensees) and a first round of reforms were implemented
under subsequent IDA and Asian Development Bank projects. The Second Power project
was intended to implement the second phase of institutional reforms, the takeover of the
final remaining 56 licensees, and DMP measures to strengthen CEB's financial,
operational, and technical management capabilities.

                                                  21


PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

58.     The objectives of the Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project were
to: (a) support the rationalization of power distribution, reduce system losses in the
distribution system operated by local licensees, and improve service quality; (b) expand
the transmission system to meet demand growth; (c) strengthen CEB's institutional
capacity; and (d) assist in the preparation of a selected hydroelectric complex.

59.     The project's components included: (a) the rehabilitation and expansion of the
licensees' distribution system that were to be taken over by CEB during 1992-1995; (b)
capacity expansion of the 220-kilovolt and 132-kilovolt systems; (c) technical assistance
for implementing both the physical and institutional development components (including
a training component to improve utility management); and (d) preparation of the design
and bidding documents for the Upper Kotmale hydroelectric plant.

60.     The project, which was approved in FY92, was supported by an IDA credit of
SDR 37.5 million (US$50 million equivalent). The project was completed in December
1998with a delay of 27 month~'~.        A total of SDR 5.66 million (US$7.61 million
equivalent) was canceled. Over 92 percent of project financing was allocated to the
purchase of equipment and materials for distribution, transmission lines, and transformer
and switching substations; the rest was used to contract consultant services for the
technical assistance and training components.


OUTCOME

61.     The project's outcome is rated moderately satisfactory (the ICR rating is
satisfactory), as explained below.

62.     The project's relevance is rated substantial. The project was consistent with
IDA'Slending strategy in the early 1990s,which combined institution-building with
partial financing of CEB's investment program to promote a balanced and cost-effective
development of Sri Lanka's power supply infrastructure.

63.     The project's efficacy is rated modest. Objective (a) was only partially achieved.
CEB had taken over 22 licensees' distribution systems by end-1997,but suspended the
program due to the delicate security situation in the north. CEB was able to take over 10
more as the situation improved, leading to 32 taken over out of 56 total licensees. The
distribution expansion was also partially achieved: 240 kilometers (compared to the
target of 495 kilometers) of medium-voltage and low-voltage overhead lines and 124
(compared to a target of 233) distribution transformer substations were added. Service
connections, however, exceeded targets, at 46,000 connections compared to the 25,000
targeted. Distribution rehabilitation also exceeded the targets with 519kilometers
rehabilitated compared to the initial goal of 300 kilometers. Finally, 20,000 electricity
meters were also replaced.



15.The project closed on June 30, 1998 (FY98) but the date of final disbursement was December 14, 1998
(FY99).

                                              22


64.     Objective (b) was achieved in 1999with 189kilometers of high-voltage lines and
related substations, but with delays ranging from three to five years resulting from the
cumbersome procurement procedures that the government imposed upon CEB.

65.     Objective (c) was almost fully implemented, but the training program did not
have any significant impact on CEB's capabilities. By credit closing, the ratio of
customers per employee had increased, accounts receivable had decreased, and the self-
financing ratio was satisfactory. But the rate of return on CEB's assets remained well
below covenanted levels because of distorted electricity tariffs that did not fully recover
the cost of service.

66.     The project's efficiency is rated modest. Its recalculated economic internal rate of
return (ERR), using the same methods and assumptions as in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR),is 12.2percent, but is slightly above the SAR's 10.7percent estimate. Adjusted to
capture willingness-to-pay, the recalculated E R R rises to 14.8percent, but is slightly
below the S A R estimate. This is likely an underestimate, however, since the calculations
reflect low tariff levels and do not fully capture the consumer surplus.

SUSTAINABILITY

67.     The project's sustainability is rated likely. CEB is properly operating and
maintaining the project's facilities. CEB needs to continue investing in new generation,
transmission and distribution assets, estimated at US$300 annually through this decade.
Investments had a declining trend during the 1990s,however, while internal resources
and donor financing taken together are not expected to reach this level annually. Thus,
there continues to be a compelling case for promoting private participation in the
electricity sector, which is being pursued by the ongoing reforms and restructuring.

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT

68.     The project's institutional development impact is rated modest. CEB was able
to partially achieve the takeover of licensees (32 out of 56), but by the project's closing,
CEB had no detailed information on the reduction in system losses of the systems that
were taken over in order to enable measurement of improvements resulting from the
takeover. Overall, CEB's own system losses declined only marginally from 18.8percent
in 1991 to 18.7percent by the project closing date. Training and technical assistance to
improve utility management and financial management were implemented satisfactorily.
However, implementation of the physical components was delayed considerably (some
with up to three-year delays) due to the lack of financial and operational autonomy,
resulting in delayed procurement. CEB also showed a lack of commercial orientation, and
the politically motivated low tariffs led to poor financial results for CEB.

BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

69.     The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. Project records show that IDA
was diligent in designing, appraising, and supervising the project (about every six
months), and provided the right skills mix. The documents contain much evidence that
IDA (i) reviewed technical, financial, economic, institutional, and environmental aspects

                                             23


carefully, and (ii) identified implementation problems and recommended remedial
measures in a timely manner. Based on interviews, the assessment mission concludes that
the ICR presented concisely and accurately the project implementation experience and
results.

70.     The borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory, particularly in the areas
of procurement and power tariff regulation. GoSL did not provide the enabling
environment to let CEB implement the project and fully achieve its objectives. The
project was plagued with procurement delays due to GoSL's protracted procedures.
Combined with poor quality equipment and supplies in some of the physical components,
this resulted in inordinate delays and the non-completion of construction works before
credit closure.

71.     CEB's financial performance during the project period was not fully satisfactory.
Although there were some improvements in reduction of arrears, it failed to meet the
covenanted rate of return target. Tariffs increased in nominal terms, but decreased
marginally in inflation-adjusted terms. Project records indicate that despite repeated IDA
reminders during project supervision, GoSL and CEB did not demonstrate the necessary
commitment to meet fully the agreed revenue targets. More generally, records show that
remedial measures recommended by IDA were not always implemented by CEB or were
implemented with significant delay. CEB did not provide a dedicated project
management unit for the distribution component, opting instead for ad hoc arrangements,
which impeded the rehabilitation work under the project. CEB's inability to operate as a
commercial entity and recover fully its costs through adequate tariffs has resulted in its
weak financial performance. CEB's performance depends upon GoSL's willingness to
enable the utility to exercise autonomy as provided for under the CEB Act, but CEB's
autonomy has eroded during the 1990s.

72.     On the positive side, it must be noted that the provision of counterpart funds from
CEB was timely and adequate. Progress reports were also prepared regularly and were
adequate for IDA'Smonitoring and supervision purposes. GoSL also provided a detailed
contribution to the ICR, including a future operational plan for the project. These,
however, are not sufficient to counter the overall poor performance on major project
indicators. The Second Power Project was rated a "problem project" for four out of the
six years of implementation because of procurement delays and non-compliance with
covenants.

73.     More recently, in the context of the ESDP, CEB's behavior was appreciated by
independent power sellers. Strictly speaking, under the CEB Act, CEB has the monopoly
for power generation and decentralized energy systems are not explicitly allowed (a lack
of clarity which the ongoing reform process should take into account). But CEB generally
did not interfere, and guaranteed power purchase if it met their voltage and other standard
requirements. CEB has always paid power producers on time. According to evaluation
informants, CEB's record in adhering to power production agreements has been good,
and with a Public Utilities Commission in place, more regulatory transparency is
expected. CEB's Pre-Electrification Unit helped increase awareness and build renewable
energy project implementation capacity in CEB's area offices, as well as in the private
sector and NGOs through regular training programs. Now, since OGVH is already well
known and the unit has served its purpose, the unit was disbanded. Through ESDP, about

                                              24


six CEB staff members, including a senior engineer, were fully trained to handle all
operational and technical aspects of wind projects.

LESSONS LEARNED

74.    The main lessons that can be derived from this project are: (a) policies and
procedures with the potential to create procurement problems during implementation
should be addressed and resolved before Board approval, in order to avoid inordinate
implementation delays; (b) an independent regulatory regime is required to govern tariff
determination, and it should be truly independent to adequately safeguard the sector's
financial viability; and (c) the degree of risk in including project components in areas
with civil unrest and/or difficult security should be rigorously assessed during project
preparation and appraisal, and mechanisms for downscaling or pulling out should be
properly identified before such components are included.

                                                    25


Annex A. Basic Data Sheets

ENERGY SERVICESDELIVERY PROJECT (CREDIT2938-CE; GETF
28955)


                                                  Appraisal        Actual or           Actual as% of
                                                  estimate      Current estimate     appraisal estimate
International Development Association              24.2              22.3                  92
Global Environmental Facility                        5.9              5.7                  97
Participating Credit institutions                  13.7               4.8                  35
Private Developers                                   9.6             10.7                 111
Ceylon Electricity Board                             1.9              1.3                  68
Total                                              55.3              44.8                  81


Cumulative Total Actual Disbursements
                                   FY98       FY99        FYOO        FYOl         FY02         FY03
Actual (US$M)                      0.956      4.180      10.465      15.807        20.897      22.398
Date of final disbursement:      May 6, 2003




                                                        Original                       Actual
Project Concept Document                               06/08/1994                    06/08/1994
Appraisal                                              06/24/1996                    06/24/1996
Board approval                                         03/18/1997                    03/18/1997
Effectiveness                                          07/22/1997                    07/22/1997
Mid-term Review                                            n.a.                      04/03/2000
Closing date                                           12/31/2002                    12/31/2002




                                                                            Staff Weeks
Preappraisal                                                                      193.8
AppraisaVnegotiations                                                             243.3
Supervision                                                                       161.0
ICR                                                                                 8.3
Total                                                                             606.4

                                                     26


Mission Data
                  Date       No. of
               (monthlyear) persons         Specializationsrepresented                 Performance rating
                                                                                   Implementation Development
                                                                                      progress      objective
Identification/  10/1994             Task Manager, Renewable Energy
Preparation                          Specialist
                                     Sr. Operations Officer, Industrial Economist
Appraisal        611996              Task Manager, 3 Renewable Energy
                                     Specialists, Financial Analyst, Industrial
                                     Economist, Environmental Engineer
Supervision      7/1997              Engineer, Renewable Energy Specialist,
                                     Industrial Economist
                 2/1998              Renewable Energy Specialist, Industrial
                                     Economist, Energy Analyst
                 8/1998              Solar/PV Engineer, Industrial Economist,
                                     Energy Analyst, Alternative Energy
                                     Engineer, Environmental Engineer,
                                     Consultant (SHSIHydro)
                 2/1999              Task Manager, EnergyAnalyst, 2                      S             S
                                     Alternative Energy Engineers,
                                     Environmental Engineer, Industrial
                                     Economist, Energy Specialist
                 412000              Financial Analyst, Environmental Specialist,        S             S
                                     2 Renewable Energy Specialists,
                                     Economist
Completion       412003              Renewable Energy Specialist, Economist,             s             S
                                     Procurement Specialist, Environmental
                                     Specialist. Financial Manaaement
                                                                -
Performance Ratings: S=Satisfactory.

Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:

FOLLOW-ON OPERATlONS
Operation                                               Credit no.           Amount            Board date
                                                                          (US$ million)
Renewable Energy and Rural Economic Development         IDA 36730              75.0           June 20,2002
(RERED) Project

                                                  27


SECONDPOWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2297-CE)


                                                Appraisal        Actual or         Actual as% of
                                                estimate      Current estimate   appraisal estimate
International Development Association            50.0              43.7                  0.87
Ceylon Electricity Board                         29.0              34.2                  1.18
Total                                            79.0              77.9                  0.99




                                                Appraisal        Actual or         Actual as% of
                                                estimate      Current estimate   appraisal estimate
International Development Association            50.0              43.7                  0.87
Ceylon Electricity Board                         29.0              34.2                  1.18
Total                                            79.0              77.9                  0.99



Cumulative Total Actual Disbursements
                            FY92      FY93    FY94     FY95    FY96       FY97    FY98      FY99
Actual (US$M)               2.3       2.3     5.3      7.9     10.9       15.0    29.8      43.7



Date of final Disbursement: December 14, 1998




                                                      Original                     Actual
Project Concept Document                                                        February 1989
Appraisal                                                                       February 1991
Board approval                                                                September 10, 1991
Effectiveness                                                                 December 16, 1991
Closing date                                                                    June 30, 1998


Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                     \    "I

                                                  Actual Weeks                       Actual US$OOO
 ldentification/Preparation                            15.2                               41.9
 Appraisal/Negotiation                                22.0                                60.9
 Supervision                                          128.4                              364.7
 ICR                                                   7.5                                13.3

                                                       28



Mission Data
Stage of          Year       No. of
Project Cycle               persons          Specializations represented              Performance rating
                                                                                  Implementation Development
                                                                                    progress      objective
Through           1991         3      EGWFNNENIE                                       N/A           NIA
Appraisal
Appraisal         1992         3      EGWFNA                                           NIA           NIA
through Board
Approval
Supervision 1      5/92        2      EGWFNA                                            1             1
Supervision 2      7/92        1      EGR                                           Not rated     Not rated
Supervision 3     12/92        1      EGR                                               2             2
Supervision 4     10193        2      EGWFMA                                            3             2
Supervision 5     7/94         2      EGRIPR                                            U             S
Supervision 6     4/95         2      EGWFNA                                            U             S
Supervision 7     9/95         2      EGWFNA                                            U             S
Supervision 8      3/96        3      EGWFNNOPN                                         S             S
Supervision 9     12/96        2      EGWFNA                                            S             S
Supervision        3/97        1      EGR                                           Not rated     Not rated
10
Supervision       6/97         4      EGRIFNNOPNIENIE                                   S             S
11
Completion        5/98         4      EGWFNNENIE/DA                                    U              U


Specializations Represented: EGR=Power Engineer; FNA=Financial Analyst; ECN=Economist; OPN=Operations
Analyst; ENIE=Environmental & Infrastructure Engineer; PR=Procurement Specialist; DA=Disbursement Assistant
Performance Ratings: 1=Problem Free; 2=Moderate; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory.

