c<~  aZ- Z' ?7 --7
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL l)SE ONLY
1:*, 1 >     i     a   : ,1'  ,      m   ;  a ',1 : iReport No.   9525-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
JUNE 28, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tlre performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 22, 1991)
Currncy Unit    -    Sri Lankan Rupee (SLRs)
US$1.0           -    SLRs 41.0
SLRs 1.0         -    US$0.024
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)                  -  0.6214 mile
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)           -  1 million volt-amperes
- 1,000 kilovolt-amperes
I megavolt-ampere reactive (MVAR) -  1 million volt-amperes reactive
1 kilowatt (kW)                   -  1,000 watts
1 megaVatt (MW)                   -  1 million watts
1,000 kilowatts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)             -  1,000 watt hours
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)             -  1 million kilowatt hours
kgoe                               -  kilogram oil equivalent
toe                               -  ton oil equivalent
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
AGSL     -   Auditor General of Sri Lanka
AMP      -   Accelerated Mahaweli Program
CEB      -   Ceylon Electricity Board
DMP      -   Distribution Master Plan
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
GOSL         Government of Sri Lanka
GTZ          Gesellshaft fur Techn4sche Zusammenarbeit
ICB      -   International Competi .ve Bidding
LECO         Lanka Electricity Company (Private) Limited
LRMC     -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS          Management Information System
MLIMD        Ministry of Lands, Irrigation, and Mahaweli Development
MPE          Ministry of Power and Energy
ODA      -   Overseas Development Administration (UK)
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
WTP      -   Willingness to Pay
FISCAL YEARS
GOSL January 1 - December 31
CEB January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
SRI IN
CREP SMM IROJECT-SH
Borrowers                 Democratic Socialiot Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary:              Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB)
Amount:                   SDR 37.5 million (US$50.0 milliou equivalent)
I                   Standard, with 40 years  aturity
Onlendinz Terms:          The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) would onlend the
proceeds of tho credit to CEB at an interest rate of
12.5Z por annum, repayable over 20 years, including
a five-year grace period. O     OSL would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Prleet De42Sciions        The principal objectives  of the Project  are to
support further rationalization of the organization
of power distribution in Sri Lanka to reduce paver
system losses and provide additional transmission
capacity to help meot projected demand at least cost.
The Project would also assist in the preparation of
selected hydropower project and CEB's further
institutional  development.      The  Project  would
financet  (a)  rehabilitation  and  expansion  of
distribution systems to be taken over by CEB during
1992-95; (b) a slica of CEB's loast-cost trans-
mission investments comprising the construction of
about 152 km of 220-kV line, about 45 km of 132-kV
lines and related substations; and (c) technical
assistance to CEB.
Benefits and Riaks:       Benefits would include increased availability and
improved quality of power supply and resourea savings
from reduction of system losses. The institutional
support would improve CEB's performance as an
effective and efficient utility. The Project would
a,.so contribute to the development of the remaining
hydropower potential in an environmentally sound
manner.   The Project would not pose any special
technical risks. The potential risks for the Project
are delays in procurement and shortfalls in CEB's
project management  capacity.   To minimize these
risks,  advance  procurement  actions  have  been
initiated and adequate technical assistance is
provided to assist CEi in the implementation and
construction supervision of transmission works.
Distribution rehabilitation in the Northern province
faces risk of implementation delays if civil unrest
in the area continues.   This risk is considered
limited and will be addressed through the agreed
procurement and disbursement arrangements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Estimated Costsa a/
Local      Poreian        Total
-(US$ Million) -------
Distribution Rehabilitation                      13.4          9.2         22.6
Transmission System Expansion                    16.6         21.6         38.2
Consulting Services                               0.4          3.9          4.3
Training                                          0.1         , 0.60.
Base Cost                                        30.5         35.3         65.8
Physical Contingencies                            3.0          3.5          6.5
Price Contingencies                               3.0          3.6.7
Total Project Cost                               36.5         42.5         79.0
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
------- (US$ Million) -
IDA                                          7.5         42.5         50.0
CEB                                         29.0          -           29.0
Total                                       36.5         42.5         79.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
-                  US$ Million -----------
IDA FY                      92     93      94      5      96     97      98
Annual                      4.0    9.0   12.2   12.2    5.2    5.2    2.2
Cumulative                  4.0   13.0   25.2   37.4   42.6   47.8   50.0
Economic Rate of Return:        About 16X
Mass:                           IBRD 22860 {.nd 22861
_/ Including US$10.0 million in taxes and duties.



SRILANK
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROEBCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pare So.
Credit and Project Summary  . . .. . . . . . . . .                     i
I.   THE ENERGY SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               I .
Energy Resources and Supply  .........  ... . .                I
Energy Consumption   . ............ *....                      2
Energy Sector Organization        ..........                   2
GOSL's Energy Sector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3
Energy Pricing . . . . . . .      .   . . . . . . .   .        4
II.  THE BANK GROUP'S ENERGY SEW-CR STRATEGY. . . . . . . . . . .S
Past Operations   . . . . . . . a  . . . * . . . .. . .        5
Sectoral Strategy    ......  ........    .**                   6
Rationale for IDA Involvement  .. ..  ...... .        .        6
III.  THE BENEFICIARY  . . * * .  . . . .  . . . . . . .    .          7
Organization and Management  ...     o .....  o o . .          7
Staffing   . . .  . 9 9 * . . * *. . . ..  . . .   *           7
Training.. . . . . .    . . . . .* . ..                        8
Existing Facilities  .  . . . .     . .      .   . . .         8
Development Programs . . . .9 o . . . . . . . . . .            9
Billing and Collection .          .............               10
Accounting and Financial Management  . . . . . . . . . . .    H
Atidit    .  .  .  .  9 . .9 .....   .  *....... . . .   .   .   .  12
Insurance  ....  .  .   .. . . ..  o o ... . . . .   .  .    .  12
IV.   THE PROJECT  . .              . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    13
Project Concept  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        a       13
Project Objectives . . .  . .  . . . . . .  . .  .    *  .    13
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Project Cost .o ....     . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . ..9.9  14
Project Financing and Terms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Project Engineering and Status of Preparation  . . . . . .    16
Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9  .  . .  .  .  .  . .   . .  .  17
Disbursement   .  .  9  *  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9 9   9  9 a  9  9  9     ..  18
Project Implementation . . . .  . ... .  . . . . * .  .       19
Environmental Effects  . ........ .........                   20
Project Monitoring .....  .o. ..  . ... . . .  . . .          20
Project Risks  . ..9.9.9.9.9.9..9..9.99. .  .  .  .  .        21
This report was prepared by Ms. H. Wu and Mr. M.P. Manrai (ASI1E) following an
appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in February 1991. The report has been endorsed by
Messrs. S. Asanuma, Director, AS1DR and F. Temple, Chief, ASlIE. Peer reviewers
of the project are Messrs. J. Besant Jones (IENED) and A. Gulstone (AETIE) who
reviewed the economic, financial, institutional and engineering aspects
respectively. Secretarial support was provided by Mmes. B. Duggal and L.F. Goh.



."dJi-
V.    FINANCE                      . .  a  .  a  .     . ,   .   a .   . .    a  a .   a .   .     .  .   .  .  .  .  21
Background   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  a  .  a  .  .  a  a  a  a  .  a  .  .  e  .  e  a  21
Past Results and Present Posltion* a .  a a a a .  a .  a .    21
Projected Financial Performance  . . . a       a . . .  a .    23
VI.   JUSTIFICATION . . . . a . . . . . . . . . . * * a a * * * a a     25
Load  Forecast    .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  . a  a   . a  a  a  .  a  a  25
Benef its   a  a  a  a   a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a *   a *   a   a  a *   a  a  a  a  26
Development Impact .          a . .  a. . . a .*    a a..  a a   26
Economic Rato oo Return  . . . ..... .        * a . ..        27
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION          . . . . . . . . . . .      28
ANERXES
1.1  Petroleum Product Price Changes Since 1975
3.1  CEB's Organization Chart
3.2  Absorption of Affected Local Authority Staff
3.3  Energy and Capacity Balances 1981-1990
3.4  Existing and Planned Transmission and Distribution Networks
3.5  CEB's Generation Expansion Plan 1991-2001
3.6  Forecast Energy and Capacity Balances 1991-2001
3.7  Number of Consumers 1981-1990
4.1  Project Description
4.2  Detailed Cost Estimates
4.3  Disbursement Profile
4.4  Project Implementation Schedule
4.5  Projecc Reporting Requirements
4.6  Performance Indicators
5.1  Historical Financial Statements
5.2  Projected Financial Statements
5.3  Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
5.4  CEB's Tariffs
6.1  Clectricity Demand Forecast
6.2  Economic Analysis
7.1  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
NAP-S
IBRD Nos. 22860 and 22861



STAFF? APRABISAL MEOR
1. THEMERGY SCTA
Eneraw Recources  Snd SmuDD
1.01      Sri Lanka ha. few indigenous energy resources, the most important of
which are hydropower end fuelvood. There are nco known hydrocarbon resarves, and
thb prospects for discovering fossil fuels remain poor. Domestic energy use is
based on fuelvood which accounted for 702 of primary energy supply in 1990, with
the balance being met by imported oil (191) and hydroelectricity (IIZ). Net oil
imports accounted for 131 of non-petroleum export earnings in 1990.
1.02      Hvdropower Resources.  Sri Lanka's major hydropower resources are
concentrated in four river systems: Mahaweli Ganga, Kelani Ganga, Kalu Ganga,
and Walawoe Ganga. The country's hydropower potential is estimated to be about
7,600 GWh a year, with an aggregate capacity of about 2,300 MW, of which 1,115
MW has already been developed. The centerpiece of hydropower development has
been the Accelerat_I Mahaweli Program (AMP) which contributed 582 MW capacity to
the national grid during 1984-90. Given the country's poor energy resource base,
optimal development of the remaining hydropower potential to meet increasing
demand for electricity is critical. In early 19869 the Government of Germany
through the Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusamenarbeit (GTZ) provided technical
assistance for an Electricity Supply Master Plan study to prepare an Inventory
of the country's remaining hydropower potential and a long term power system
development plan.  The three-year Master Plan study conducted by Lahmeyer
International of Germany ranked 20 medium-scale hydro projects with a combined
average annual energy generation of about 3,200 GWh that could provide
electricity at average costs ranging from US$0.03 to US$0.09 per kWh. To ensure
timely commissioning of about 200 MW additional hydro generating capacity needed
during 1996-2000, preparation of feasibility studies for the most promising
candidate projects to establish the optimal sequencing for implementing new hydro
projects is an important and urgent task. The feasibility study for the Kukule
Project, one of the candidates, is under preparation with assistance of
consultants financed under IDA's Power Distribution and Transmission Project (Cr.
1933-CE). The proposed Project would include technical assistance to update the
feasibility study and prepare detailed engineering designs for the Upper Kotmale
Project (pari. 4.03(c) (iv)). Assistance is also being sought separately from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the British and French bilateral sources for the
preparation of the Uppeir Uma Oya and Broadlands Projects.
1.03      Fuelwood.  Despite fuelvood's dominant importance in the country's
enorgy supply, data on consumption and supply patterns remain poor, partly
because the bulk of fuelwood supply is non-traded. In addition to fuelwood from
the natural forest, agricultural ane ?lantation crop wastes (notably rubber wood)
supply a large amount of fuelwood requirements.  Based on a 1984 survey of 518
households and population growth trc.de, consumption of fuelwood was estimated
at around 10 million tons in 1990. During the paot two decades, fuelwood rubber



-2-
replanting, etc., wa estimated to have fallen bosh±d consumption.  The balance
of fuelvood supply has come from deforestation. Main17 due to the clearing of
land for agricultural development and commercial timber extraction, Sri Lanka's
naturpl forest cover has declined from about 452 of the total land area in 1956
to 271 in 1083.  k -.ether losises in the forest cover would lead to fuelvood
shortages and an iacrease in the demand for imported petroleum products.  This
could result in a substantial increase in the fuel import bill. GOSL recognizes
that the long term solution to this issue requires a comprehensive and
accelerated reforestation program. Several reafforestation projects have already
been implemented with the assistance of the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and ADB. A Forestry Master Plan was prepared
by Jaakko Poyry (Finland) in FY87 under IDA's Forest Resource Development
Project (Cr. 1317-CE). The plan includes a five-year forestry sector Investment
program which is being implemented with assistance from IDA (under the Forest
Sector Development Project Cr. 2043-CE), the ADB, and the Overseas Development
Administration of the United Kingdom (ODA). Efforts to increase the fuelvood
supply are being complemented by a nationwide fuelwood conservation program to
replace the existing inefficient domestic woodstoves with more efficient ones in
about 2.6 million households.
Energv ConsguMtion
1.04      Per capita consumption of commercial energy (oil and electricity) in
Sri Lanka is about 88 kilograms of oil equivalent (kgoe) per annum, compared with
Bangladesh (45 kgoe), India (194 kgoe), and Thailand (343 kgoe). Total annual
per capita energy consumption is about 350 kgoe, of which about 752 is supplied
by traditional energy sources (fuelvood used mainly for cookitng). Between 1980
and 1990, total energy consumption increased at about 2.32 a year, compared to
an annual growth rate of about 4.32 for real GDP. During the same period, growth
in electricity consumption averaged 6.42, whereas annual consumption of energy
petroleum products has deUlined from 1.2 million tons in 1983 to about 1.0
million tons in 1990 as a result of the increase in hydro-electricity generation.
For commercial energy, transport (542) and industry and commerce (242) are the
main consuming sectors, with the domestic sector accounting for 192.  These
shares change dramatically when fuelwood is included; domestic consumption then
accounts for 69Z, industry and commerce 18S, transport 12Z and others 12.
Presently, about 26Z of the households have access to electricity.
Energv Sector Oraanization
1.05      The Ministry of Power and Energy (MPE) and the Ministry of Lands,
Irrigation, and Mahaveli Development (MLIMD) are the two principal ministries
involved in the energy sector in Sri Lanka. The MPE oversees three entities:
the Ceylon Potroleum Corporation (a state-owned company responsible for import,
refining, distribution and re-export of petroleum products), the Ceylon
Electricity Board (CEB), and the Lanka Electricity Company (private) Limited
(LECO). The MLIMD is responsible for land administration and land use planning
through  its  Land  Commissioner's  Department,  forestry  and  environmental
development through the Forest Department, wood industries through the State
Timber Corporation, and development of multi-purpose hydro projects in the
Mahaveli basin through the Mahaveli Department.
1.06      Sri Lanka's  power  subsector  is  dominated by  Cf"',  a  statutory
corporation established in 1969 responsible for electricity generation and
transmission throughout the country and for distribution except in areas served
by LECO and local authorities (licensees). Originally there were 216 licensees
operating mostly small distribution systems to supply power to municipal and



- 3 -
urban areas with a total of about 400,000 consumars.   Due to shortages of
technical, financial and managerial resources, many Jtcensees' systems face
serious problems, including high system losses (estimated to average about 2S2
of incoming supply), poor quality of supply, low revenue collection, high level
of arrears owned to CEB, and long delays in connecting new consumers.  The
fragmentation of responsibility for electricity distribution impeded the
subsector's efficient development and operation. To remedy this situation, LECO
was set up in 1983 under the Companies Act with a mandate to gradually take over
the distribution systems of local authorities. During ,985-87, uz.der the ADB-
financed Secondary Towns Power Distribution Project, LECO took over ten
licensees' systema near Colombo. Although LECO made considerable progress in
reducing distribution losses and improving the quality of supply and service as
well as revenue collection in these areas, it would need a number of years to
build up its institutional capacity and achieve financial viability. Further,
as most of tho remaining licensees' systems were spread over the island, it
appeared more rational, in view of economies of scale, for them to be taken over
by CEB, which operates island-wide distribution systems. In FY87, GOSL 4nitiated
an interim action program involving the takeover of two thirds of licensees'
consumers by CEB and LECO. The Distribution Master Plan (DMP) prepared by the
consultants in 1988 under IDA's Ninth Power Project (Cr. 1736-CE) fully supported
COSL's initiative and recommended a phased takeover by CEB of those licensees
outside LECO's planned operating area, supported by decentralization of
distribution management to the divisional level within CEB, as the best
institutional arrangement for power distribution. The Power Distribution and
Transmission Project (Cr. 1933-CE) approved in 1988 is supporting CEB's takeover
and subsequent rehabilitation/expansion of 130 licensees' systems, while ADB's
FY88 Secondary Towns Power Distribution Project II is supporting LECO's takeover
of 23 licensees adjacent to its existing operating area. Takeovers under Cr.
1933-CE commenced in May 1989.  By the end of 1990, 102 licensees' systems
serving about 100,000 consumers had been transferred to CEB; takeover of 28
additional licensees would be completed by mid-1991. While full benefits would
materialize only iollowing the completion of major rehabilitation/expansion, CEB
has been successful in reducing systems losses in the worst performing
distribution systems taken over from 4t. to 201 through urgent rehabilitation and
introducing better discipline in commercial and operating procedures.  In v-ew
of these significant results and to expedite resolution of the endemic issue of
high accounts receivable from licensees, CEB now plans to proceed to take over
the remaining 53 licensees. The proposed Project would provide financing for
rehabilitation and expansion of these licensees' distribution systems following
their takeover by CEB (para. 4.03(a)).
GOSL's Energv Sector Strateav
1.07      Sectoral Objectives.  Although the energy sector's direct contri-
bution to GDP is presently small, overall management of the energy sector is
critical in view of the implications of oil imports for the balance of payments,
the power subsector's large investment requirements, and the environmental
consequences associated with deforestation and fuelwood use. Since the early
1970s GOSL's evolving energy policy has focused on the gradual reduction of the
country's dependence on imported petroleum. Thus, the major objectives of GOSL's
present energy strategy ere to: (a) meet energy demand at least cost to the
economy; (b) develop r` aestic hxydropower resources to reduce the country's
dependence on imported oil; (c) increase the supply of non-commercial energy
through a program of reafforestation; (d) promote energy conservation; (e) adjust
energy prices to promote its efficient and economic use taking into account



-4-
social objectives; end (f) improve energy setor entitieso resource mobilization
to meet the country*' development goals.
1.08      Sectogal 1eveloRment.  In the pursuit of thee objectives, GOSL has
givon high priority to the development of the power subsector and has allocated
a large *har* of the public investment and external assistanae to the develop-
mont of hydro generation capacity.   Simultaneously,  GCSL ha   implemented
Institutional reforms to rationalize the orggaization of the energy sector.
Until late 1982, a serious sector constraint was the relatively large number of
ministries end line agencies involved in the different energy subsectors, and the
lack of effective coordination between them. In October 1982, GOSL created an
Energy Coordination Team in the Minietry of Power ond Energy (MPE) to coordinate
the work of relevant ministries and line agencies and prevent duplication of
effort. Energy policy coordination was further strengthened in 1984 when the
Ceylon Petroleum Corporation was transferred from the Ministry of Industries to
the lPE, thus raducing the number of min-Jtries involved in the energy sector.
The ongoing institutional reform to rationalize the orenization of power
distribution represents a major atep to improve the power subsector's
perf!rmance. While significant progress has been made during the 1980., further
action is needed in the areas of investment planning, energy pricing,
institutional strengthening of sector entities and GOSL's sector management in
order to achieve an accelerated improvement in sector performance and to maximize
the potential contribution of the sector to the achievement of Sri Lanka's
economic and social objectives.
Energ-Prc
1.09      Petroleum Produ  t Pricig. For social and political reasons, energy
prices did not reflect the economic costs of supply until 1978. Since then,
however, petroleum product prices have been generally set at or above border
price levels. In July 1983, GOSL abolished the general subsidy on kerosene but
protected the purchasing power of low-income households by simultaneously
increasing the value of kerosene stamps which are provided to about half of the
population. During 1984-88 prices of petroleum products other than furnace oil
remained unchanged. GOSL did not reduce retail prices following the fall in
international prices in 1986 but used the opportunity to mobilize resources to
reduce the budget deficit.  In late 1989, the weighted price of petroleum
products was 8S%  above the CIF level.   Following the upward movement of
international oil prices during the second half of 1990, domestic petroleum
product prices were adjusted thrice (on August 15, November 6 and December 27
respectively), with resultant increases in real terms ranging from 9% for furnace
oil and 23Z for super gasoline, as compared with the price levels prevailing in
September 1989. Petroleum product price changes since 1975 are given in Annex
1.1.
1.10      *lectcity Tla_riffs.   CEB's electricity tariffs have been raised
several times in recent years, most recently by 40% in April 1990. During 1980-
1990 aversge revenue *et kVh, excluding the fuel adjustment charge, increased at
an average annual  - I of about 19%, representing an average annual increase in
real terms of about 6%.  The increases in tariff rates were accompanied by
significant changee in tho tariff structure.  Thus, the 1978 tariff revision
included provision for an automatic adjustment to reflect fuel costs, and the
1980 tariff replaced the declining block tariff for domestic consumers by an
Increasing block tariff, including a lifeline rate to enable low income consumers
to afford the electricity required to meet their basic needs. In 1980 GOSL/CEB



agroed under the Sixth Pmer Project (Cr. 1048-Cl) to carry out a tariff study
based on long-run marginal cost (LR=) and to implemont tariff adjustments to
enable CER to achieve a return on revaluod avorage net fixed assets of not loos
then 8t (para. 3.14).   Tariffs were revised in 1982, 19859 1988, and 1990
following the tariff studies undertaken in 1981 and 1984.   The 1985 tariff
utructure included separate energy and demand charges for hotel, industrial and
cmnercial consumers with contract demands exceeding 50  WVA, and optional time-
of-day energy rates for Industrial and hotel consumers.  To further rationalize
tariff structure and identify measures for effective load management, CEB agreed
unwer Cr. 1933-CE to carry out, with the assistanco of consultantes, a tariff and
load management study and implement the agreed recoimendati.   bhsreaftar.  lho
findings of the study indicate that tha present average tarifts for commercial
and industrial consumers are about 902 of LERC whereas about two-thirds of
electricity sales to domestic consumers corresponding to specific consumption up
to 100 kWhimonth are charged at subsidized rates ranging from about 151 to 562
of LRlC.  The average revenue per kWh in 1991 is estimated to be about 752 of              L
LRMC. The study recomme-.ded: (i) reductions in the level of cross-subsidization
from commercial and industrial consumers to domestic users and from large t%sero
to suall oneso within the commercial and industrial consumer groups; (ii) intro-
duction of differentiated demand charge rates for industrial and commercial
consumers to reduce their peak demands; (iii) introduction of a simplified time-
of-day bulk supply tariff to LECO to better neflect the costs incurred in CEEBs
system; and (iv) reduction in the level of subsidy to domestic users. CEB has
agraed to submit its decision on the recommendations of the tariff study to HPE
and IDA for review by August 31, 1991.  To meet CEB's financial objectives,
tariff increases of about 252 in 1992, 152 in 1993 and 121 in 1994 in nominal
terms would be required (para 5.07), with average tariff reaching the level of
LRMC by 1993/94.
11. THE BANK GROUP'S ENERGY SECTOR STRATEGY
Past Operations
2.01      The Bank Group's involvement with Sri Lanka's power subsector began
in 1954 when a loan of US$19.1 million (Loan 101-CE) Was made to GOSL to help
fAnance a 25 MW expansion of the Aberdeen-Laxapana hydroelectric scheme. To
date, the Bank Group has financed ten power projects in Sri Lanka, of which eight
have been completed. Bank Group funds committed through these operations have
totaled US$239 million, representing about 172 of total Bank resources committed
to Sri Lanka up through March 31, 1991. Through these lending operations and
sector studies (para. 2.03), the Bank Group has not only prrlided assistance in
financing system expansions to meet demand, but also played a leading role in
ass±ating GOSL to address major sectoral issues and implement tariff and
institutional reforms. Further, the Bank Group has been instrumental in the
Institutional development of CEB.
2.02      Implementation of several projects, including the ongoing Ninth Power
Project, experienced serious delays. Although some delays were caused by factors
beyond CEB's control, such as civil disturbances, unsatisfactory performance of
contractors, PPAR/PCR for the Fifth and Sixth Power Projects have cited
deficiencies in CEB's project management resulting from a shortage of experienced
staff and lack of an effective project implementation monitoring and reporting
system, and GOSL/CEB's protracted procurement proceduroa ae the primary
implementation impediments.  To address these constraintes  actione have been



initiated to streamline GOSLICEB's intarnal procuremenrt procedures (pars. 4.15)
and technical ausuitance would be provided under the Project to improve CEB9'
project management capability.
Sector  Statesz
2.03      To update and extend its knowledge of Sri Lanka's power subsector, and
to identify the principal issues and policy options to doal with those issues,
IDA carried out a detaile. study of the power subsector during 1984-85.1/ Thow
study identified the rneed to rationalize the organization of power distribution,
increase the autonomy of CEB and strengthen '.ts management capability, and has
contributed significantly to the development of IDA's strategy in the *ubsector
and the fcomulation of the two ongoing projects.
2.04      IDA's energy sector objectives have been formulated in the course of
a continuing dialogue with GOSL and are aimed at assisting GOSL tos (a) evolve
an institutional framework for the efficiont development and operat.ion of the
power system; (b) enhance the efficiency of energy use and implement conser-
vation measuresI (c) rationalize energy consumption through setting energy prices
in relation to the costs to the economy of meeting consumers' demands for energy;
(d) strengthen the energy sector institutions to improve their technical
operations and financial performance; (e) ensure that the power subsector's
investment program is balanced and inciudes adequate investment in transmission
and distribution facilities; and (f) meet the demand for energy at least cost
while developing Sri Lanka's indigenous energy resources.   Recognizing that
achievement of these objectives will be a long-term process requiring repeater
projects, IDA's lending strategy for the power subsector has been to maintain a
balance between supporting physical investment and CEB's institutional building
and to engage GOSL and CEB's top management in a continuing dialogue on
overcoming sector constraints.
Rat L..ale for IDA Involvement
2.05      The main reason for IDA's involvement in the power 2ubsector is IDA's
capability to provide technical assistance and  dvice to GOSL on policy and
institutional tatters and the emphasis of IDA's lending strategy on institu-
tional building. IDA'. continued involvement through the proposed Project is
important as it would enable IDA to maintain an effective relationship in a
sector where further reform is needed and IDA's extensive cross-country
experience in the sector in developing countries is directly relevant in advising
GOSL on overall sector management.   It would also complement the assistance
extended by bilateral donors including the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany and
Japan, the bulk of which was allocated to the development of hydropower projects
constructed under the Accelerated Manaweli Program, and the role of ADB who has
been a major source of finance and technical assistance for LECO and rural
electrification schemee implemented by CEB. The Project would reinforce IDA
support for the distribution institutional reform initiated under Cr. 1933-CE and
provide technical assistance to help CEB to build managerial, financial and
technical capqbilities essential for efficient management and operation of a
commercially oriented utility.
1/   Power subsector Review Report No. 5713-CE.



-7-
III. THE BENEFICIARY
Organizatin -and =  anaament
3.01      CEB, the beneficiary, is a statutory corporation established by the
CEB Act, No. 17 of 1969 (1969 CEB Act).   It is responsible for electricity
generation and transmisaion throughout Sri Lanka and for distribution except
where distribution systems are operated by licensees and LECO (para. 1.06). CEB
is managed by a seven-member Board appointed by the Minister of Power and Energy.
The Board members may be removed at any time, serve three to five-year terms and
may be reappointed. The Chairman, who is appointed from among the Board members,
is responsible through the Board for policy matters and close liaison vith GOSL.
The General Manager (GM) is responsible for the overall direction and control of
CEB's day-to-day business. The GM is appointed from CEB's staff on the basis of
seniority and merit. CEB's organization chart is shown in Annex 3.1.
3.02      CEB's  original  organizational  jtructure was  designed  by  Urwick
International Ltd. (UK), management consultants, in the early 1970s under the
Fourth Power Project (Ln. 636-CE). In 1981 CEB retained the same consultants
under the Sixth Power Project (Cr. 1048-CE) to: re-examine its organizational
structure, since the existing structure was considered to be inappropriate for
its enlarged size and responsibilities; redesign CEB's accounting systems; and
implement a modern system for inventory control and management.   Urwick
recommended a decentralized organization consisting of a corporate headquarters
with seven functional departments, two operating regions with saven divisions
under them responsible for the operation, extension and reinforcement of
distribution systems, and a generation group responsible for three generation
complexes (Laxapana, Mahaveli and Sapugaskanda) and a system control center.
Implementation of the new organization and management systems commenced in 1984
and was completed in early 1987.   In early 1989, the number of operating
distribution divisions was increased from 7 to 11 corresponding to the newly
formed provincial boundaries with a view to promote more balanced development of
distribution. In accordance with the recommendations of the DMP study, CEB is
in the process of decentralizing the distribution management to the divisional
level.   An organizational and management study is being carried out by the
consultants fineced under Cr. 1933-CE to examine CEB's current organization
structure and management systems and develop proposals to address identified
deficiencies.   CEB will review the results of the study with IDA before
implementation.
Staffing
3.03      As of December 31, 1990, CEB had about 13,900 employees serving about
702,900 consumers, yielding a consumer/employee ratio of 50t1. This ratio is low
compared with other utilities in the region such as Malaysia (84:1) and Thailand
(92:1). There are serious staffing imbalances, particularly reflected in the
shortage of experienced engineers and f'nancial staff. The shortage is becoming
increasingly serious in view of the planned expansion of CEB's operations and the
exodus of experienced miidle-,-ed engineers in recent years to take higher paid
jobs overseas. To alleviate thie shortage, CEB nemds to step up recruitment and
training. Bebides engineers and accountants, recruitment would need to address
the staffing requirements for strengthening billing and collection, management
information system, corporate planning, load forecast and tariff formulation.
In paraliel, CEB also needs to review and reform its compensation and incentive



- 8 -
scheme to enable it to attract end retain the poerienced staff needed to operate
and expand the system in an efficient end effective manner.
3.04      About 1,460 licensees' staff would be affected by CEB's takeover of
the 130 licensees' distribution systems (para. 1.06). Based on the experience
gained in Implementing the arrangements agreed under Cr. 1933-CE, about 8OZ of
the affected staff have been or will be offered employment by CEB and a further
82 will  be  offered  alternative  employment  by  the  Ministry  of  Public
Administration and Provincial Councils (previously the Ministry of Local
Government, Housint and Construction); some 122 of the affected staff woild be
given early retiremaent or made redundant and receive redundancy payments from
CEB.  The some arrangements would be repeated under the proposed Project.
According to CEB's estimate, of 1,500 local authority staff likely to be affected
by the Project, some 1,100 or 75Z would be absorbed by CEB (Annex 3.2). During
negotiations, GOSL agreed that it would cause to be carried out a program
satisfactory to IDA for the redeployment and retirement of licensees' staff not
offered employment by CEB (para. 7.01(a)).
Training
3.05      CEB's ttaining section under the personnel department manages two
training centers located at Castlereagh and Piliyandala with a staff of 63,
including 17 instrntctors. Following the opening of the new training center at
Piliyandala in January 1989, established with assistance from IDA and France, all
training programs for technical officers (including electrical superintendents,
switchboard operators, linesmen, cable jointers) and skilled labor have been
conducted at the new training center; the two small training centers at Kaduwela
and Kotmale were closed in late 1988 and 1989 respectively. Due to a shortage
of suitable instructors and more importantly, the lack of an effGctive
institutional framework for better defining and implementing CEB's training
program, training activities in recent years have not kept pace with CEB's
technical and operational training needs. During 1986-90, only 29100 employees
received training under various programs, of which 1,300 received training at
CEB's own training centers. In view of the unmet demand for training at all
levels,  strengthening  or  the  training  function  is  imperative.    During
negotiations, CEB confirmed that it will appoint, by June 30, 1991, a training
coordinating coiuittee for overseeing the formulation of training programs for
each of CEB's major functional areas and for assisting the Deputy General Manager
(training) in monitoring the implementation progress. As CEB's in-house training
facilities mainly cater for the training needs of technical officers and skilled
workmen, CEB will depend on external training to upgrade staff capabilities in
selected areas. The proposed Project would help CEB to strengthen its managerial
and professional staff resources through financing a utility management training
program (pare. 4.03(c)(iii)).
Mjist±A Facilities
3.06     agnalation.   In December 1990, CEB's total installed generating
capacity amounted to 1,245 MW,Z/ comprising 995 MW hydro plants and 250 MW
thermal plants. Four hydro stations constructed under the Accelerated Mahaweli
ZJ   Excluding the capacity of three mini-hydropower stations totalling
19 NW.



- 9 -
Program accounted for the entire increase in generating capacity of 582 MW since
1984, bringing CEB's annual average hydroelectricity generation capability to
about 3,790 GWh in 1990. CEB's thermal plants consist of 4 x 20 NW of medium
speed diesel units and 6 x 20 MW gas turbine units, all of which were
commissioned between 1980-1984 to meet the capacity shortage. A small 2 x 25 MW
oil-fired steam power plant originally commissioned in 1962 was recommissioned
in late 1990 after rehabilitation. In 1990 CEB's power generation amounted to
3,150 GWh, with a peak demand of 640 MW. During 1981-86, gross energy generation
increased at about 8.0: p.a. However, growth during 1987-89 averaged only 2.51
as a result of the supply restrictions imposed in 1987 on account of an
exceptionally dry year and the occurrence of civil disturbances which seriously
curtailed the level of economic activity in the troubled area of the country.
Energy and capacity balances for 1981-1990 are given In Annex 3.3.
3.07      tns inam    .  The generating stations and load centers are inter-
connected by a transmission network comprising 177 km of 220-kV lines, 1,350 km
of 132 kV-lines, 180 km of 66-kV lines and 28 grid substations (Annex 3.4). Cgs
intends to upgrade the entire 66-kV system to 132-kV. The 220-kV lines were
constructed under the Seventh Power Project (Cr. 1210-Cl) to evacuate power from
the hydro stations in the Mahaweli basin to the major load center near Colombo.
The transmission network is in good condition.
3.08      Dlstrlbutlon. The subtransmission and distribution networks comprise
about 11,000 km of 33-kV lines, 2,700 km of I1-kV lines, 21,000 km of low voltage
lines,  and 7,140 distribution substations  (Annex 3.4).   The distribution
networks, particularly those taken over from licenseest suffer from under-
investment, resulting in overloading, poor voltage conditions and high
distribution losses. Overall system losses are estimated at around 232 of gross
generation, comprising about 181 in CEB's supply system and 5s3V in systems
operated by licensees and LECO.   To reduce system losses and Improve the
reliability and quality of power supply, CEB's distribution networks, including
130 licensees' systems already or to be taken over by CEB, are being upgraded
under Crs. 1736-CE and 1933-CE.
DeveloDment Proarams
3.09      The Planning and Project Implementation Department through its three
planning branches is responsible for system expansion planning.  CEB has an
annual generation expansion plannirg cycle, which begins with the preparation of
a load forecast by the commercial branch in July and is followed in August/
September by the preparation of the least-cost generation expansion plan using
the WASP-III model. This plan is integrated with the transmission and distri-
bution expansion plans, and the resultant aggregated plan is used by the Finance
Department for the preparation of CEB's annual financial plan. As agreed under
Cr. 1736-CE CEB's long term development plan is updated annually and reviewed
with IDA.
3.10      Given the predominant role of hydropower in supplying the demand for
electricity, officient management of water resources is critical. However, prior
to the initiation of the Electricity Supply Master Plan study (para. 1.02),
efforts to optimize the use of water resources in the Mahaweli basin were
A/   Corresponding to about 252 distribution losses.



- 10 -
hindered due to the lack of means to study the combined operation of the
irrigation and electricity generation system in an integrated manner.
Consequently,  operation of the reservoir system was uncoupled from paver
generation and was directed towards supply irrigation needs rather than
optimizing operation of the irrigation and electricity generation system as a
whole. One of the most significant contributions of the Master Plan study has
been the introduction of a computer model capable of simulating monthly opera-
tions of the existing and future integrated irrigation and power generation
system and evaluating candidate projects in a system context. Results of the
latest generation expansion studies are given in Annex 3.5. With the scheduled
commissioning of the 120 MW Samanalawewa hydro plant in 1992, CEB's hydro
capacity would be sufficient to supply demand up to 1995, with minimum thermal
generation requirements except in dry years. During 1996-2000, the generation
expansion plan calls for the commissioning of about 200 MW hydro capacity and a
total of 252 MW diesel/gas turbine units, 120 MW of which would be for replacing
the 6 existing gas turbine units at Kelanitissa. Forecast capacity and energy
balances for 1991-2001 are given in Annex 3.6. The generation expansion plan in
its present form is indicative and CEB is conducting further studies with respect
of a number of factors, including the timing of commissioning coal-fired base
load units. The results of these studies will be discussed with IDA during the
annual reviews of CEB's long term investment program.
3.11      CEB has prepared a transmission system development plan for the period
1990-2000. Based on the existing system configuration and load flow studies,
investments during the next ten years are directed towards reinforcing tne
220/132-kV transmission systems and upgrAding the related substations with a
purpose to reduce transmission losses and improve reliability of supply. Also,
to transmit more hydro power from the central region to supply the northern part
of the island, a new 220-KV line from Victoria grid substation to Anuradhapura
would be needed as the existing 132-kV line would be fully loaded by 1994.
Billing and Collection
3.12      At the end of 1990 CEB served about 702,900 consumers, of which 86.3Z
were domestic, 13.61 commercial and industrial, and the remaining 0.11 were
accounts of licensees and public lighting (Annex 3.7). Meters are read and bills
prepared on a monthly basis.   At present, about 66Z of CEB's revenue from
electricity sales comes from about 5,000 large (heavy supply) consumers, for whom
bills are prepared manually at the two regional offices based on readings taken
by the area engineers. Billing for the rest of the consumers is computerized;
meter readings taken in each area are manually collated at divisional offices and
then mailed to the central billing center in Colombo for processing.   The
existing billing computer, which was installed in 1983, is unable to handle the
present billing load of about 697,900 ordinary consumers; the resultant billing
delay is one of the major factors contributing to CEB's high level of accounts
receivable. Given CEB's expanding consumer base as a result of the takeover of
licensees and new connections and its decision to decentralize the billing
function to the divisional level, there is an urgent need to upgrade the billing
system to improve billing efficiency and consumer service. Under Cr. 1933-CE,
Utility Consultants International (UCI) of Germany, were retained to assist CkB
to design and prepare the specifications for the procurement of hardware and
software for a decentralized billing system. Preparation of bid documents is in
progress with contract award expected by December 31, 1991. The new billing
system would be implemented over a two-year period and is expected to become
fully operational in late 1993. In the interim, in an effort to shorten the



- 11 -
billing cycle and reduce the level of accounts receivable, CEB has introduced an
island-wide instant bJlling program where meter readers use ready reckoners to
issue informal bills to consumers. Despite its shortcomings, the instant billing
program has contributed to the reduction of accounits receivable from. private
ordinary consumers.
3.13      llnder the Fifth Power Project (Cr. 372-CE) it was agreed that CEB's
accounts receivable would not exceed three months of billings. This requirement
was retained under the subsequent power projects financed by the Bank Group. Up
to 1985, accounts receivable had continually exceeded the covenanted level. In
1985, CEB initiated a number of measures to reduce accounts receivable, while in
September 1985, GOSL assumed responsibility for the payment of arrears and future
accounts for street lighting. As a result, total accoants receivable declined
from 5.4 months as of December 31, 1985 to 3.3 months as of December 31, 1986,
and to 3.1 months at the end of 1987. However, the trend was reversed during
1988-89, and receivables rose to the equivalent of 4.8 months. The deterioration
of revenue collection was mainly triggered by civil dibturbances which caused
frequent disruptions of billing activity, and the worsening performance of
licensees in paying their electricity bills to CEB in anticipation of being taken
over.  Following the implementation of the instant billing program and more
aggressive collection policies, accounts receivables were reduced to 3.4 months
at the end of March 1991. The three defaulting categories of consumers and their
respective shares of the total accounts receivable were: ordinary private
consumers (441 and 4.9 months); licensees (201 and 12.4 months) and ordinary
government accounts (9I and 17.9 months). While CEB's takeover of licensees'
systems would address the endemic issue of high accounts receivable from
licensees, a sustained effort by CEB/GOSL is needed to reduce receivables from
private ordinary consumers and government departments.  During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from GOSL/CEB that all necessary actions will be taken
to reduce CEB's accounts receivable to a level not exceeding three months by
December 31, 1991 (para. 5.04).
Accounting and Financial Management
3.14      CEB's financial activities are regulated by the CEB Act of 1969 and
the Finance Act of 1971.   The CEB Act requires the Board to operate along
commercial lines and ensure that revenues generated 'rom electricity sales cover
operating costs, including depreciation, debt service, and an adequate portion
of .he cost of the development program. The Finance Act outlines procedures for
the performance of audits and sets the ceiling on the remuneration of employees
in the public sector. In 1973, following the approval of the Fifth Power Project
(Cr. 372-CE), CEB's statutory obligations were amended to allow depreciation to
be based on revalued assets. In 1980, under the Sixth Power Project (Cr. 1048-
CE), an 8 rate of return on revalued average net fixed assets was set as a
financ4.al objective for CEB. The same covenant was repeated in the subsequent
power projects financed by IDA.
3.15      In 1981 CEB engaged management consultants to redesign its accounting
systems and organization to improve financial reporting and control (para. 3.02).
Implementation of the new systems and procedures started in January 1984.
Accounting activities, with the exception of revenue and fixed assets accounting,
were  decentralized  to  the  divisional  level.    Further,  to  improve  asset
management, a fixed asset accounting study was commissioned in 1985 under the
Sixth Power Project.  The study covered the physical verification of CEB's
assets, the design of a suitable asset classification system, and the review of



- 12
CEB's depreciation policies.   A revised system of asset classification was
introduced in 1987.  CEB's accounting systems are generally sound.  Howover,
development of financial management has been constrained due to the shortage of
qualified financial staff (para. 3.03) and lack of exposure to modern utility
management techniques.
3.16      To support the ongoing decentralization of distribution reoponsi-
bAiity, revenue and fixed asset accountiag presently performed at the regional
level will  be progressively decentraliz,d to the divisional level.   This
situation points to the need to strengtiten the accounting function at tho
divioional level and overall financial cont-rol and management at the corporate
level. To help CEB build vp its financial management capability, the proposed
Project would provide training for CEB's financial executives and staff in areas
of financial forecasting and corporate planning, budgoting end budgetary control,
cash and credit management, project accounting, management information system and
performance audit (para. 4.03(c)(iii)).
Audit
3.17      CEB's internal audit function was first established in 19849 ao per
the recommendation of the management conaultants (para. 3.02).  The intern&l
audit unit, headed by the Chief Internal Auditor who reports to the General
Manager, carries out revenue audit and other routine audits in accordance with
a program approved by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka (AGSL). As with other
public corporations, the external audit of CEB's accounts is carried out by the
AGSL, under the Finance Act No. 38 of 1971 (para. 3.14).   The AGSL is an
autonomous agency that reports to Parliament. Under previous credits, CEB agreed
to submit to IDA its unaudited accounts within four months from the end of the
fiscal year, and audited accounts accompanied by an auditor's report within ten
months. Delays in the submission of CEB's accounts which occurred in the earlier
years were eliminated as a result of CEB's efforts to streamline its financial
reporting procedures, and its accounts for 1985 through 1987 were sent to the
Bank Group within the covenanted period.   The quality of the audits was
satisfactory.  However, CEB's audited accounts for 1988 and 1989 were submitted
about four months behind the covenanted schedule due to delays in the AGSL's
office.   During appraisal,  an assurance was obtained from the AGSL that
appropriate actions have been taken to enable CEB to comply with the existing
audit covenants.   To ensure accountability for resources used by CEB, the
existing audit covenant would be repeated under the proposed Project.  During
negotiations, CEB agreed to submit to IDA its unaudited accounts within four
months from the end of the fiscal year under consideration, and audited accounts
together with the auditor's report within ter. months (para. 7.03(a)). Further,
GOSL agreed to submit to IDA not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year the auditor's report on withdrawals made on the basis of statements
of expenditures and from the Special Account (para. 7.01(b)).
Insurance
3.18      CEB self-insures  all of  its own assets  and has established an
insurance reserve for this purpose. Annual provision of one-tenth of 1% of CEB's
revalued gross fixed assets is made out of net income to the insurance reserve.
In earlier years this reserve was used partly to finance CEB's investment
program. Under the Ninth Power Project (Cr. 1736-CE) the transfer of insurance
funds to an escrow account with a financial intermediary was made a condition of
eredit effectiveness.   Under Cr. 1933-CE CEB agreed to deposit its annual



- 13 -
provision to the insurance reserve into the insurance escrow account within
eleven months of the end of the fiscal year.  During negotiation,9 CEB agreed to
maintain the same arrangement under the proposed Project (para. 7.03(b)).
IV. THE PROJECT
Proiect Concept
4.01      Implementation of the licensee takeover program under Cr. 1933-CE i0
scheduled for completion by mid-1991. Thus, COSL requested IDA's assistance to
continue the institutional reform throufw CEB's takeover of the distribution
responsibility of remaining licensees.   In line with IDA's power subsector
strategy, the proposed Project would assist GOSL/CEB in implementing the second
phase of the distribution institutional reform and other recommendations of the
DMP study to strengtnhe CEB's technical, financial and operational management
capabilities. The principal findings of the DMP study were endorsed by GOSL,
CEB, !DA and ADB at a joint review meeting held in Colombo in March 1989. The
proposed project scope reflects IDA's lending strategy of combining institution
building with partially financing CEB's investment programs to help ensure
balanced and cost-effective development of the electricity supply infrastructure
in the country.
Project ObJectives
4.02      The Project's objectives would be: (a) to support further rational-
ization of power distribution organization to reduce system losses in the
distribution systems operated by the remaining licensees and improve quality of
electricity supply; (b) to provide additional transmission facilities to help
meet the projected demand; (e) to further strengthen CEB's institutional
capacity; and (d) to assist in the preparation of selected hydropower project to
ensure its development in a technologically, environmentally and socio-
economically sound manner.
Project Desrintion
4.03      To achieve the project objective- the Project would consist of the
following components:
(a)  Distribution Rehabilitation through rehabilitation and expansion of
licensees' distribution systems to be taken over by CEB during FY92-
95;
(b)  Transmission Exnansior  by the:
(i) construction of about 152 km of 220-kV double circuit line with
only   one  circuit   strung   initially   and  construction/
augmentation of related 220-kV substations;
(1i)  construction of about 37 km of 132-kV double circuit line with
only one circuit strung initially and 8 km of double circuit
line and augmentation of related 132-kV substations; and
(iii)  installation  of  about  70 MVAR  compensation  equipment  at
selected substations to improve voltage level;



- 14 -
(o) Technical Assistance consisting oft
(i)  project implementation support through consulting services to
prepare the designs, bid documents for the proposed 220-kV
transmission works and reactive compensation equipment and
assist in bid evaluation and construction supervision thereof;
(ii)  institution development assistance through consultancy services
to assist CEB to computerize its accounts and establish an
adequate iinancial management information system (HIS) and a
computerized project management informaticn system;
(iii)  training of CEB's staff in utility management; and
(iv)  consultancy services to update feasibility study and prepare
detailed engineering designs and bid documents for the Upper
Kotmale Hydropower Project.
A detailed description of the Project is given in Annex 4.1.  The geographic
locations of the Project's physical components are shown in Maps IBRD 22860 and
22861.
Proiect Cost
4.04      The total cost of the Project, including price and physical contin-
gencies, duties and taxes, is estimated at US$79.0 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$42.5 million. Duties and taxes would amount to about
US$10.0 million.  Project base costs are at mid-1991 price levels.  Physical
contingencies of 1OZ are assumed for equipment, materials and services on the
basis of previous experience with similar projects in Sri Lanka. Price contin-
gencies for foreign costs are based on an average annual price increase of 3.42
for 1991-97. Price contingencies for local costs are based on projected annual
inflation rates of 11.5Z for 1991, 7.71 for 1992, 6.07 for 1993-94, 5.02 for
1995, 3.4Z for 1996 and thereafter.  Purchasing power parity is assumed for
exchange rate changes over the life of the Project. Total price contingencies
amount to 92 of the base cost plus physical contingencies. Detailed project cost
estimates are given in Annex 4.2 and summarized in Table 4.1.
TAble 4.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total  Exchange  Cost
*-----SLRS (Nil) ------ I-----U# (Nil)         (X)     tX)
Distribution Rehabilitation  551.0  378.1  929.1    13.4    9.2    22.6    41      34
Transmission Expansion      677.4  887.0  1564.4   16.6   21.6    38.2    57       58
Technical Assistance
(i) Consulting Services      17.4  159.1  176.5    0.4    3.9      4.3    91        7
(if) Training                4.0   252.  29.Z      0 1     .6      0.7    6         1
Total Base Cost            1249.8  1449.4  2699.2    30.5   35.3    65.8    54    100
Physical Contingencies      125.0  144.9  269.9    3.0    3.5      6.5    54       10
Price Contingencies         296.8  337.4  634.2    3- Q   .LZ     _6.7    55       10
Total Project Cost         1671.6  1931.7  3603.3   36.5   42.5    79.0   54      120
_        - _                    - _-   



- 15 -
Prg,oect Financing and Torm.
4.05     The proposed IDA credit of US$50.0 million would flnance 1OO1 of the
Project's fossign cost and 281 of the local cost, covering about 73Z of the
total project cost net of duties and taxes.  CEB would contribute US$29.0
million (37Z of total project cost) from its internal resources. The proposed
financing plan is shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local     Foresin   Total         1
IDA            7.5        42.5     50.0         63
CEB           29.0                   .37
Total         36.5        42.5      79.0       100
4.06      Up to now, CEB's borrowings for investment financing has come almost
entirely from multilateral and bilateral sources. Because of the absence of
long term financial instruments (thus market-determined long term interest
rates) in the local capital markets and the nature of CEB as a public utility
providing a basic service not internationally tradable, onlending interest
rates were not set according to the prevailing market rates in the country.
Thus, the onlending rates for the two ongoing IDA credits (Crs. 1736-CE and
1933-CE) and ADB's 1990 Power System Expansion Project were set at 101 p.a.,
a level equal to the estimated opportunity cost of capital, with GOSL bearing
the foreign exchange risk. The onlending rates, while slightly positive in
real terms during 1981-87, have become negative over the past three years as
a result of the increaqe in local inflation. To instill Zreater financial
discipline and commercial orientation in CEB's operations, the timing is
considered appropriate to set onlending rate closer to market rates.
Presently, the local capital market remains undeveloped and financial inter-
mediation costs are high (4 to 5 percentage points) due to inefficiencies and
large provisions for bad loans. In these circumstances, the average weighted
deposit rate (AWDR) on interest bearing term deposits of the Greater Colombo
branches of domestic commercial banks has been chosen as a comparator. As of
December 31, 1990 this rate was 13.71 p.a. In view of that a move from 102 to
13.72 would be too disruptive for CEB, a transitional onlending rate of 12.51
p.a. is proposed for the Prnject and this would represent a significant
movement toward market-determined Interest rptes pending the development of
long-term debt instruments. The spread between the proposed onlending rate and
the rates of IDA's charges on the proposed cr&dit would provide a sufficient
margin  for GOSL  to bear  the  foreign  exchange  risk  involved.    During
negotiations, GOSL agreed to onlend the proceeds of the proposed credit to CEB
at an interest rate of not less than 12.51 p.a., repayable over twenty years,
including five years of grace. GOSL would bear the foreign exchange risk in
accordance with the provision of the 1969 CEB Act. The signing of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between GOSL and CEB under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.04(a)).



- 16 -
Pr iset Llmineeringand  Statut of rara1io1
4.07      In the course of implementing previous projects, CEB has, with the
assistance of inter.iational consultants, developed expertise to undertake
transmission and distribution system planning and aiig4neering.  The trans-
mission system development plan for 1990-2000, of which the Project'.
transmission component is a part, was the result of extenaiive syscm studies.
As basic designs and technical specifications for the 132-kV transmission works
and distribution materials would be largely of standard nature, CMB engineers
have undertaken the detailed engineering work associated with these components
and the draft bid documents prepared by CEB have been reviewed by IDA. To
supplement CEB's In-house capability, the Project would provide expatriate
consultants' services to assist CEB to carry cut detailed engineering, prepare
bid documents and assist in bid evaluation and construction supervision for the
220-kV line/substations and reactive compensation equipment. CEB will carry
out soil testing for typical 220-kV tower foundation locations and the test
results will  be  incorporated  in  the bid  documents.    To economize  the
construction cost of the line and facilitate future looping into the grid, the
routing of the proposed 220-kV transmission line would utilize existing
corridors of public roadways and 132-kV lines. The terms of reference for the
above consultancy were reviewed and agreed during negotiations (para. 7.03(c)).



- 17 -
Prpcurement
4.08      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3s  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method &I         TOTAL
Project Element             ICB      LCB   OTHER       N.A.      COST
Distribution Rehabilitation
Equipmont and Materials       14.0      1.7      -       2.0 hi   17.7
(10.2)   (0.1)     -        -       (10.3)
Civil Works and Erection        -      3.6     4.4 c/    -          8.0
-     (2.5)     -        -         (2.5)
Tr-anAmiocion
Tr2nsmission Lines            32.3       -      -         -        32.3
(24.3)      -      -        -        (24.3)
Grid Substations              11.7       -      -         -        11.7
(7.0)      -     -         -        (7.0)
Consultancy and Training           -        -     5.9         -        5.9
-        -     (5.9)       -        (5.9)
Way Leave                          -        -                1.5        1.5
Administration                              -LI                         1.9
Total                            58.0      5.3   10.3       5.4       79.0
(41.5)   (2.6)  (5.9)       -       (50.0)
i PFigures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
hi Consisting of US$1.8 million of reserved procurement of distribution
transformers and US$0.2 million for local processing of distribution
conductors.
£/ Cost of construction executed by force account.
4.09     Three supply and erect (tu--key) coutracts for the proposed 220-kV
transmission line (US$20.0 millionj, 132-kV transmission lines (US$7.0
million), grid substations and reactive compensation equipment (US$9.0 million)
would be awarded after ICB.W  In view of the geograpilc scattering of the
Project'e distribution works and the strength of CEB's existing construction
force, construction and rehabilitation of the distribution works would be
carried partly by 3EB using force account and partly by contrac-torg. Since the
Vi   Contract value estimates exclude duties and taxes.



- 18 -
values of individual contracts are too emll to attract the attention of
foreign bidders and the local Industry is sufficiently competitive, construc-
tion of distribution works, estimated to cost US$3.6 million in aggregate,
would be procured under LCB procedure acceptable to IDA. Nonetheless, foreign
bidders wou'd be allowed to bid if they so desire. Distribution materials
estimated to cost US$12.0 million net of duties end taxes would be packaged in
to several lots and procured on ICB basis except for the followings
(a) 33-111.4-kV distribution transformers estimated to cost US$1.8
million would be procured from single source and financed by CED;
(b) manufacturing of distribution conductors out of aluminum redrawn rods
(to be procured under ICB and financed by IDA), estimated to cost
US$0.2 million, would be procured locally and financed by CEBD and
(c) miscellaneous distribution items up to US$100,000 in aggregate
would be procured under LCB proc.dvres and financed by IDA.
4.10     Local  manufacturers  of  conductors  and  transformers  have  been
supplying CEB on a continuing basis.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from CEB that satisfactory arrangements would be made to eusure that
prices are reasonable and adequate quality control is in place to ensure that
products meet required standards.
4.11     For goods to be procured through ICB, a margin of preference equal
to 15X of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual import duty,
whichever is less, would be given to domestic manufacturers.   Consultants for
technical assistance would be selected in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
Services in respect of training costing about US$0.6 million would be arranged
through direct negotiations with entities agreed by IDA and under terms of
reference  satisfactory to IDA.   Bid documents for individual contracts
estimated to cost above US$200,000 equivalent for goods and works financed by
IDA would be subject to IDA's prior review. This would cover about 902 of the
total value of IDA-financed contracts. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award review.
Disbursement
4.12     Disbursement from the proposed credit would be made against:
(a) 100X of foreign expenditures and 1002 of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for distribution equipment and materials and 701 of
local expenditures for items procured locally;
(b) 701 of local expenditures for distribution civil works and erection
services;
(c) 1OOZ of foreign expenditures and 702 of local expenditures for
transmission works (turnkey); and
(d) 10OZ of the cost of consultants and training.
4.13     Disbursements for contracts valued less than US$100,000 equivalent
each would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE), the documertation
of which would not be sent to IDA but will be retained by CEB for inspection



- 19 _
by supervision missions.  All other disbursements would be made following
standard IDA documentation requirements. To facilitate disbursement, a special
account would be established for the credit with an authorized allocation of
US$2.3 million equivalent, estimated on the basis of four months average expen-
diture under the Project.  Based on IDA's standard disbursement profile for
transmission and distribution projects, the total disbursement period for the
Project would be seven years, which allows one year after pjoject completion
for the payment of retention monies (Annex 4.3). The proposed credit closing
date would be June 30, 1998. To deal with pos6ible risk of continuing civil
unrest in the Northern province, agreement was reached with COSL/CEB during
negotiations that no withdrawals would bo made in reopact of expenditures on
materials and equipment for distribution works in the Northern province unless
IDA is satisfied that conditions have improved to enable construction
activities to be carried out effectively and safely (para. 7.02(a)).
Proiect Implementation
4.14     Project implementation, which is expected to be completed within
seven years, builds on the lessons learned from previous projects and CEB's
current limitatiors. During negotiations, CEB confirmed that it would appoint,
by June 30, 1991, four project managers, one each for ths distribution,
transmission, MIS and training components. Further, to improve CEB's project
management capability, technical assistance would be provided for training on
project management and the installation of a computerized project
implementation, monitoring and reporting system (para. 4.03(c)(ii)&(iii)).
4.15     One issue which has affected CEB's project implementation performance
is COSL's excessive control over procurement decisions. In 1988, GOSL intro-
duced stringent regulations requiring clearance of bid document by a technical
evaluation committee (TEC) appointed by the Ministry of Finance for all
contzacts valued at above Re 5 million (US$125,000) equivalent.  Moreover,
recommendation of contract award for any coutract valued at above Rs 5 million
requires the approval by a Cabinet-appointed tender board (CATB). The pro-
tracted internal procurement processing procedure, compounded by frequent
failures of TEC or CATB members to attend the scheduled meetings has caused
long delays in procurement of goods and engagement of consultant;. To avoid
procurement delays experienced under previous projects, actions have been
initiated to expedite GOSL/CEB's internal procurement processing.   A new
internal procurement procedure for IDA-financed projects with CEB, which
delegates more decision-making power to CEB and MPE for internal clearance of
bid documents and for award of contracts valued up to Rs 20 million equivalent
each, was approved by GOSL in October 1990 and became effective in May 1991.
In addition, advance procurement actions have been initiated. The terms of
reference for the proposed consultancies for the 220-kV transmission works and
the upgrading of CEB's management information system were discussed and agreed
with CEB during negotiations. IDA has reviewed the draft bid documents for the
distribution materials and the 132-kV transmission works prepared by CEB.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOSL/CEB that CEB's inviting
bids for distribution materials and the 132-kV transmission works and proposals
for the above consultancies would be conditions of credit effectiveness
(para. 7.04(b)&(c)).
4.16     The feasibility and detailed engi:neering studies for the Upper
Kotmala Project would be carried out by an internationally renown consulting
firm (or consortium) that would collaborate with the local consultants, the



- 20 -
Central Engineering  Consultancy  Bureau  (CECB), who  participated  in  the
Electricity Supply Master Plan study. The assignment would be carried ovt in
two phases; the second phase would proceed to the preparation of detailed
engineering and bid documents. Draft terms of reference fox this assignment
were discussed with CEB during appraisal. Consultants would be required to
prepare full environmental impact assessments and action plans for resettlement
of dislocated families.   In addition, to ensure know-how transfer throue-
active participation, CEB agreed to identify CEB counterpart personnel at the
time of issuance of the letter of invitation for proposals. Output during both
phases would be periodically reviewed by a panel of international expert.
financed under the proposed Project.
4.17      During the implementation of the ongoing Cr. 1933-CE, CEB will gain
experience in coordinating an extensive program for the rehabilitation of
distribution networks.    The  construction  organization  established under
Cr. 1933-CE would be phased to cover the distribution component of the Project.
The transmission component would be implemented through supply and erect
contracts. Regarding the training component, CEB agreed to furnish to IDA for
review b7 November 30, 1991, a detailed training program identifying staff to
be trained, areas of training, proposed hosting entities and training timetable
and implement the agreed training program thereafter (para. 7.03(c)).
4.18      The project implementation schedule and the key completion dates for
the procurement process are given in Annex 4.4. The Project is expected to be
fully implemented by September 30, 1997.
gEnvr,onmental Effects
4.19      The ecological impact of transmission and distribution lines is
regulated by Sri Lanka's existing laws, namely, Section 15 of the Electricity
Act, the Flora and Fauna Act, and the Forestry Ordinance. Most of the distri-
bution lines included in the Project would be constructed adjacent to public
roadways and would be similar in visual Impact to existing lines. The routings
of the new transmission lines would utilize existing corridors of public road-
ways and transmission lines and thus pose no new environmental implications.
With respect to the feasibility study of the Upper Kotmale Project, cons4ltants
would prepare a full environmental assessment and resettlement plan under terms
of reference agreed with IDA.
rlect Montorina
4.20      The  frequency  and  format  of  project  reporting  requirements
(Annex 4.5) were discussed and agreed with CEB during negotiations. Proposed
performance indicators to monitor CEB's operating and financial performance are
given in Annex 4.6. During project implementation, CEB would report progress
on the physical and institutional components of the Project through quarterly
progress reports (to be submitted within 30 days of the quarter end) and on the
operations and financial position of the Board through annual financial
statements. Within six months of the project closing date, CEB would prepare
and furnish to IDA a Project Completion Report of such scope and in such detail
as IDA shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its costs and the benefits derived from it, the accomplishment of the
objoctivee of tho credit and the lessons learned.



- 21 -
4.21      The  consultants  employed  for  Implementing  varioue  technical
assistance assignmento provided under the Project, would be required to submit
monthly reports to CEB with an executive summary. A copy of the executive
sunmary would also be sent to IDA. On completion of their assignments, the
consultants would submit a detailed report to CEB with a copy to IDA on their
achievements with, inter alia, recommendations of further actions to etrengthen
CEB's capabilities in their respective areas. These reporting requirements
would be included in the terms of reference for consultancy services.
Prolet Rk
4.22      The Project would nct pose any significant technical risks.   The
potential risks for the Project are delays in procurement and shortfalls in
CEB's project manage&ent capacity.   These risks have been recognized and
actions initiated to minimize their impact. Adequate technical assistance is
provided under the Project to assist CEB in the implementation and construction
supervision of transmission works.   Risk of project implementation delays
exists if the security situation in the country continues. Hocever, this risk
is considered limited and it would affect utilization of about 101 of the
proposed credit amount allocated for the rehabilitation/expansion of licensees'
distribution systems in the Northern province. To deal with this risk, during
project implementation IDA would not approve disbursement for project
distribution materials for the Northern province until it is satisfied that
conditions have Improved to enable construction activities to be carried out
effectively and safely (para. 4.13). In the event that CEB would be unable to
construct the Project's 6.1stribution rwhabilitation works in the Northern
province as a result of civ'1 disturbances, the unutilized credit amount would
be either canceled or raallocated to finance CEB's other distribution
investments upon approval by IDA.
V. FINANCE
Eackaround
5.01      Given the power subsector'a large funding requirements and GOSL's
limited budgetary resources,  lequate resource mobilization within the sub-
sector to enable CEB to finanec a reasonable portion of its investment program
with internally generated fu:idh is critical to sustaining the subsector's
growth. This objective was endaersed by GOSL under the Sixth Power Project and
subsequent lending operations through the existing revenue covenant requiring
CEB to earn a minimum 82 rate of return on revalued net fixed assets. Tariff
increases were introduced in 1982 (321), 1985 (752), 1988 (172) and 1990 (402).
As a result, CEB has been able to maintain profitability and achieve on average
302 self-financing during 1986-90 despite sluggish sales growth experienced
during 1987-89.  Given GOSL's commitment towards enabling CEB to meet its
financial objective and the resumption of demand growth, CEB is expected to
continue to produce satisfactory financial results during the forecast period.
Past Results and Present Position
5.02      CEB's financial performanca for the five years 1986 through 1990 is
summarized below.   CEB's historical financial statements are provided in
Annex 51.



- 22 -
Table S.1:  CEB - Summary of Financial Performance. 1986-1990
MSA   1987   1988   1989    1990
Generation (GWh)                         2,653  2,701  2,799  2,858   3,150
Saes. (GWh)                              2,232  2,258  2,370  2,354   2,578
System Loss (Z)                           15.9   16.4   15.3   17.6    18.2
Average Tariff (Rs/kWh)                   1.48   1.47   1.70   1.66    2.20
Sales Revenue (Re Million) k/            3,306  3,319  4,018  3,918   5,672
Net Income (Re Million)                  1,229  1,215  1,136    907   1,573
Internal Cash Generation (Rs Million)   2,666  2,830  3,192  2,854   4,752
Investment (Rs Million)                  5,359  4,119  5,470  6,988   9,401
Return on Net Fixed Assets (X)             8.5    8.7    7.9    5.1         9.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                        27s73  29:71  29:71  30:70   31:69
Debt Service Coverage                      2.9    2.3    2.4    2.8         2.1
Self-financing Ratio (2) cl                 17      29      26      40       34
Current Ratio                              3.1    2.8    2.6    2.1         1.3
Account Receivable (Months)                3.3    3.1    4.8    4.8         3.3
a/ Preliminary.
b/ Excluding revenue from fuel adjustment charge which provides for
full recovery of fuel cost and the turnover tax levied on fuel.
c/ Excluding financing by consumer contributions.
5.03      Due to the extensive power cuts imposed in 1987 necessitated by the
below average rainfall, and the occurrence of civil disturbances, grcwth in
CEB's electricity sales during 1987-89 averaged 1.82 p.a., compared with the
average annual increase of 8.2Z achieved during 1981-86. However, the signifi-
cant tariff increases introduced in recent years (para. 5.01) have helped to
moderate the impact of slow sales growth on CEB's revenue, and enabled CEB to
achieve a rate of return on revalued average net fixed assets in use of about
8X or above during the period with the exception of 1989. CEB's investment
during the period totalled Rs 31.3 billion, of which Rs 9.6 billion or 302 was
financed with internally generated funds. Consequently9 CEB has maintained a
strong capitalization position throughout the period with a debt/equity ratio
of 31:69 ase of December 31, 1990. Debt service coverage and current ratio also
remained satisfactory.
5.04      As a result of the security situation in the country, CEB>s revenue
collection deteriorated during 1988-89 with overall accounts receivable rising
to the equivalent of 4.8 months, compared with the covenanted level of 3
months.   Following vigorous implementation of more aggressive collection
policies, total accounts receivable had been reduced to 3.4 months by March
1991. In order to ensure that accounts receivable are consistently maintained
at a minimum level so that funds can be utilized in a most efficient manner,
the covenant for accounts receivable agreed under previous projects would be
retained under the proposed Project. During negotiations, GOSL/CEB agreed to
take necessary actions so that by December 31, 1991, CEB's overall accounts
receivable for electricity supplied would not exceed three months of billings
(para. 7.02(b)).



- 23 -
Pro1eeted Financial Performance
5.05      Investment Pro_ra .    Based on projected load forecast.,  CEB's
electricity sales are projected to grow at an iverage annual rate of 7.8Z from
2,578 GWh in 1990 to 5,443 GWh in 2000; requiring en average annual increase
in gross electricity generation of 7Z.  To moet the projected demand, CEB'.
total investment for the period 1991-2000 is estimated at Re 85.5 billion
(US$2.1 billion equivalent) in 1991 prices (about Rs 113.4 billion in current
prices), including Re 10.9 billion of expenditures on projects to be
cormaissioned after the year 2001 but started beforehand. About 60S of the
planned investment would be for the expansion of CEB's generation capacity, 101
for extension and reinforcement of the transmission system, and 30S for
distribution.
Table 5.2: CEB-Investment Program 1991-2000
(Current Price Terms)
(Z) of Total
Re Million  USS Million   Foreian Cost (1)    Investment
Generation          69,013       1,439             66                 61
Transmission        10,274         219             60                  9
Distribution        28,789         611             27                 25
Other                5.347          113      _                         5
Total              113.423       2.382             53                100
5.06      Financin Plan. Because of GOSL's continued support for CEB's tariff
reforms CEB was able to meet 301 of its investment financing requirements with
internally generated funds during 1986-90. If CEB continues its past practice
of self-financing the entire local costs of the investment program from
internal cash generation with the exception of rural electrification schemes
financed by government equity and consumer connection expenditures financed by
consumer contributions, its investment program for 1991-2000 would be financed
as follows:
Table 5.3: CEB-Investment Financins 1991-2000
Re Million             2
Capital Investment                    113,423
Financed by:
Loans                                58,108               51.3
Government Equity                      1,740               1.5
Consumer Contribution                 9,994                8.8
Internal Cash Generation             43.581              38.4
Total Sources                    113,423             100.0
5.07      Borrowings would cover about 511 of the total financing requirements,
while CEB would provide about 381 of the total investment financing vith funds
generated internally.   In view of CEB's and GOSL's success in obtaining
suppliers' credits and bilateral financing in the past, it is expected that



- 24 -
foreign loans would be secured in a timely manner.   With respect to the
provision of counterpart funds, financial projections indicate that annual
tariff increases of about 252 in 1992, 152 in 1993 and 12S in 1994 would be
required to enable CEB to achieve the projected self-financing level and at the
same time maintain the required liquidity.   To ensure adequate resource
mobilization within the power subsector, thereby reducing CEB's dependence on
the government budget for investment financing, it is expected that GOSL would
continue to support CEB's local cost self-finsncing objective by authorizing
necessary tariff increases, and agreement wa.s reached with GOSL/CEB during
negotiations in this respect (para. 5.09).
5.08      Financial Projections.  Based on the sales growth, investment level
and financing plan discussed above and other assumptions set out in Annex 5.3,
CEB's pro forma financial statemeats for 1991 through 2000 have been prepared
and are given in Annex 5.2. The key financial data are summarized in the
following table:
Table 5.4: CEB- Summary of Projected Financial Performance
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    2000
Generation (GWh)                    3,284   3,472   3,700   3,942   4,209   6,185
Sales (GWh)                         2,758   2,952   3,182   3,430  3,704   5,443
System Loss (2)                         16      15       14       13      12       12
Average Tariff (Re/kWh)               2.40    3.00    3.45    3.86    4.00    4.62
---------------- Rs Billion -
Sales Revenue                         6.6      8.8    11.0    13.2    14.8    25.1
Net Income                             1.3      1.7     2.6      4.0     4.5      4.4
Internal Cash Generation              5.2      6.8      8.4    10.0    11.0    15.7
Investment                            8.0      6.6      5.2      4.5     6.5    23.4
Return on Net Fixed Assets (Z)         7.4     7.0      7.0      8.0     8.0      8.1
Debt/Equity Ratio                   31s69   29:71   27:73   24:76  22:78   30:70
Debt Service Coverage                  1.5     1.8      2.2      2.4     2.5      1.9
Self-financing Ratio                    34      33       40       41      49       35
Current Ratio                          1.0     1.0      1.2      1.8    2.4       2.3
Accounts Receivables (Months)          3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
5.09      The financial projections indicate that, given the assumed tariif
increases, CEB would continue to produce satisfactory financial results during
the forecast period.  Cash flows from operations would develop strongly to
enable CEO to achieve an average self-financing ratio of about 382 and debt
service would be covered a minimum of 15 times throughout the period. Owing
to high level of self-financing, CEB's liquidity position as measured by the
current ratio would become tight during 1991-92. However, if CEB were to meot
252 of its investment financing requirements with internally generated funds,
which would be a fully satisfactory performance by international utility
standards, its current ratio would reach a more comfortable level of 1.2 in
1992 and 1.5 in 1993. In view of the anticipated large increase (about 202)
in the size of CEB's a8set base in 1992 following the commissioning of the
Samanalawewa hydropower station and the timeframe required for the utilization



- 25 -
of the new capacity to build up, it is recommended that the existing covenanted
rate of return for 1992 and 1993 (8S) be relaxed to 72. The proposed relax-
ation takes into account CEB's self-financing objective, the ability of various
consumers to pay and the extent of tariff Increases which can be implemented
at once. The proposed 72 rate of return for 1992-93 is considered acceptable
as it would provide adequate internal cash generation to enable CDB to self-
finance above 302 of its investment requirements and maintain a long term debt
service coverage of above 1.5.   During negotiations, agreement was reached
with GOSL/CEB that all necessary actions, including tariff increases, would be
taken to enable CEB to achieve a minimum annual rate of return on the current
value of its average net fixed assets employed of 72 in 1992 and 1993, and 82
in 1994 and each year thereafter (para. 7.02(c)). Also, to ensure that CEB'.
debt service coverage and short term liquidity would remain satisfactory, CEB
agreed to: (a) consult IDA before incurring any new debt which would cause its
gross internal cash generation to fall below 1.5 times the debt service
requirement (para. 7.03(d)); and (b) take necessary measures to maintain a
current ratio of not less than 1.2 (para. 7.03(e)).
VI. JUSTIFICATION
Load Forecast
6.01      Total electricity sales increased at average annual rates of 8.22
during 1981-86 and 1.82 during 1987-89 (Annex 3.3). The slow sales growth
during the latter period was attributable to the extensive power cuts imposed
in 1987 necessitated by the below average rainfall and low water levels at the
main reservoirs and to the occurrence of civil unrest.   During 1990, the
improvement in general conditions in the country his been accompanied by a 6.32
GDP growth and 9.62 increase in CEB's electricity sales. A significant change
occurred in the percentage shares of sales accounted for by CEB's major
consumer groups in the period.  Annex 3.3 shows that sales to residential
consumers as a share of total sales increased from 142 in 1981 to 192 in 1990
while the share of sales to industrial consumers decreased from about 452 to
352 during the same period. The increase in sales was driven by the increase
in the number of new connections. The total number of consumers served by CEB,
excluding conJumers taken over from licensees, increased by about 112 during
1981-90 (Annex 3.7).
6.02      CEB prepares an annual short term (3-4 years) energy sales forecast
from forecasts of the consumption of each class of consumers within each of
CEB's geographical divisions. In so doing, historical trends are considered
and due weight is given to known prospective loads such as housing schemes,
industrial parks, individual industries, and rural electrification schemes.
For longer term forecasting, correlation and regression analyses are used. All
consumers are grouped into three categories, and growth rates are related to
gross domestic product, to value added in manufacturing and export processing,
and to population. To accommodate deviations from the trend, upper and lower
limit estimates are prepared.
6.03      CEB's load forecast for 1991-2000 is summarized in Table 6.1 and
given in greater detail in Annex 6.1.



- 26 -
Table 6.1: CEO-Enery and Power Demnd Forecast 1991-2000
Averae
Growth
1291        122   IM9 199   199? 12ZQQQ12   a
Residential       557   629   730   842   970  1,114  1,Z22  1,341  1,471  1,612   12.6
Ccwmrciat         447   487   545   609   681   761   822   889   961  1,038    9.7
Irdustry          947  1,003  1,081  1,166  1,260  1,361  1.446  1,537  1,632  1,734    6.8
HoteLs             99   109   120   132   145   159   175   193   212   233   10.0
LECO              389   420   453   490   529   571   617   666   720   m          8.0
Licensees         301   282   228   164    90       0     0     0      0     0
Street Lighting    19  __1    24  __6    30  __3    3b  _40    43    47   10.7
Total Sales (GWh)   2,758  2,951  3,181  3,429  3,704  4,000  4,320  4,666  5,039  5,442    7.8
Peak Demand (U)   682   721   768   818   858   910   966  1,044  1,127  1,217    6.6
Load Factor (X)    55    55    55    55    56    57    58       8     58    58
6.04      During the forecast period, CEB's energy sales are projected to
increase at an average annual rate of 7.82, while gross electricity generation
is forecast to increase at a lower average rate of 7Z p.a. as a result of the
projected decline in CEB's gross system losses from 18Z in 1990 to about 121
in 1995 and thereafter.  Total electricity sales are projected to be about
5,440 GWh in the year 2000, with a peak demand of about 1,217 MW. Growth in
peak demand averages about 6.6Z a year, reflecting improvement in the load
factor as an increasing number of commercial and industrial consumers are
expected to subscribe to the time of day  -triffs.   The sales forecast
incorporates the increased sales projected to follow from the improvement in
the reliability and quality of electricity supply and the reduction in non-
technical losses in areas covere-i by the Project. IDA's general experience
with loss reduction projects where non-technical losses are relatively high and
the quality of supply is low, is that the reduction in losses is accompanied
by substantial short term increases in electricity sales. In addition, the
load forecast reflects the projected continuing high rate of connections by
CEB, which averaged nearly 40,000 a year during 1981-90 excluding accounts
taken over from licensees. The forecast is prepared on the basis of GDP growth
projections of 4.0X p.a. for 1991-92, 4.51 p.a. for 1993-94, and 51 p.a. for
1995-2000. The sales projections are consistent with the historical linkages
between GDP and electricity sales observed over the period 1971-1989.
Benefits
6.05      Benefits would include increased availability and improved quality
of power supply, and resource savings from reduction of system losses.
Further, the Project would assist CEB's further institutional development
through technical assistance to upgrade the technical, financial and managerial
capabilities of CEB staff.  The institutional support is expected to bring
about sustained improvement in CEB's project implementation, operational
efficiency and financial performance.
Development Impact
6.06      As noted in para. 4.19, the expansion of the distribution and
transmission network& would follow existing right of ways. With this safeguard
any adverse environmental impact would be minimized. In the area of poverty
alleviation the Project does not target low income groups directly, but the
improved availability of electricity at the rural/village level would enhance



- 27 -
the quality of life generally. The availability of improved electricity supply
in the urban/rural areas would also act as a catalyst for micro enterprise
development (all private sector), and often offering employment opportunities
to women particularly in the textile/garment preparation areas.
Economic Rate of Return
6.07      The Project's distribution component is an integral part of the best
solution to address inefficiencies in licensees' distribution systems, while
the transmission component constitutes a part of the least cost transmission
investment to transmit additional power from existing and future generating
stations to the load centers. The analysis conducted by CEB for each component
of the Project has been reviewed and found to be satisfactory to IDA. Although
the Project is expected to play an important role in the optimal development
and operation of the power subsector, its benefits to consumers cannot be
separated from those of other least-cost generation, transmission and
distribution invSstments and institutional improvements.   In these circum-
stances, having established that the transmission and distribution components
are part of CEB's least-cost expansion program, it is appropriate to carry out
the cost-benefit analysis on CEB's entire program to ensure that it is
justified.  For this purpose a "time-slice" of CEB's investment program for
generation, transmission and distribution for the period 1991-2000 has been
analyzed.   The capital costs of the investment program,  together with
incremental fuel as well as operating and maintenance costs associated with the
investment program, are shown In Annex 6.2. All costs are expressed in terms
of their equivalent border values. A minimum measure of the economic benefits
associated with the investment program is represented by incremental sales
revenue. The analysis assumes that collection of fuel adjustment charge would
be discontinued following the expected tariff increase in 1992. On this basis,
the rate of return is estimated to be 10.7Z. Details o.. the analysis are given
in Annex 6.2.
6.08      The foregoing revenue-based measure of rate of return is, by its
nature, more a measure of the adequacy of tariffs than of the true economic
merit of the investment program which includes the Project. A better measure
of the rate of return can be obtained by estimating consumers' willingness to
pay (WTP) for the incremental electricity sales. As domestic use of electri-
city is subsidized (para. 1.08), an attempt was made to quantify the WTP of
domestic consumers. About 10 of total domestic electricity use (corresponding
to specific consumption up to 10 kWh/month) can be considered minimum lighting
requirements.   This portion is valued at the economic cost of kerosene
lighting. The remainder of domestic consumption is valued at a price declining
to the average domestic tariff at the margin. Using the WTP thus derived as
a proxy of benefit for domestic consumers and the respective average tariffs
as benefit proxies for incremental non-domestic electricity consumption, the
economic rate of return is estimated to be 15.7X. An 101 increase in capital
costs, which is considered very unlikely given the 15S physical contingencies
provided for the planned investments, wo..ld reduce the rate of return to about
14Z. A lower electricity sales growth of 61 p.a. would result in a rate of
return of 11X. The investment program in its aggregate form is justified.
E/   Excluding capital expenditures on generation projects to be commissioned
after 2001.



- 28 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND REC EMNDATION
7.01      During negotiations, COSL agreed tot
(a) carry out, or cause to be carried out, a program satisfactory to IDA,
for the redeployment and retirement of licensee.' staff not offered
employment by CEB (para. 3.04); and
(b) submit to IDA the ACSL's report on withdrawalv made on the basis of
statements of expenditures and from the Special Account within six
months from the end of the fiscal year under consideration
(para. 3.17).
7.02      During negotiations, GOSL/CEB agreed thats
(a) no withdrawals would be made in respect of expenditures on materials
and equipment for distribution works in the Northern Province unless
IDA is satisfied that conditions have improved to enable construction
activities to be carried out effectively and safely (para. 4.13);
(b) by December 31,  1991, CEB's   overall accounts receivable  for
electricity supplied would not exceed three months' billings (para.
5.04); and
(c) all necessary actions, including tariff increases, would be taken to
enable CEB to achieve a minimum annual rate of return on the current
value of its average net fixed assets employed of 7X for 1992 and
1993 and 8Z for 1994 and thereafter (para. 3.09).
7,.03     During negotiations, CEB agreed:
(a) to submit to TDA its unaudited accounts within four months from the
end of the fiscal year under consideration and its audited accounts
accompanied by the AGSL's report within ten months (para. 3.17);
(b) to deposit its annual provision to the insurance reserve into the
insurance escrow account within eleven months of the end of the
fiscal year (para. 3.18);
(c) to submit to IDA by November 30, 1991 a detailed training program and
implement the agreed training thereafter (para. 4.17);
(d) to consult with IDA before incurring new debt which would cause its
gross internal cash generation to fall below 1.5 times the debt
service requirement (para. 5.9); and
(e) to maintain a current ratio of not less than 1.2 (para. 5.09)
7.04      During  negotiations,  agreement  was  reached  on  the  following
conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOSL and CEB,
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 4.06);



* 29 a
(b) the lso neun d of bid dooumnts for the distribution materials and the
132mkV transmission works (par&, 4.15); and
(a) the issuance of Invitations for consultenoy proposals for the 220-1s
transmisLon works u4d the upsiading of CBS's  maagment Informtion
eystem (pare. 4.15)e
7.05      With tho above agroements, the proposed Project constitutes  a
suitable basis for a development credLt of SDR 37.5 million (U8$50.0 ultlon
equivalent) on stand.rd IDA torm  with   matuwity of 40 years to the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lankau



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PetroleLa Product Price Chanqes 1975-1989 g/
(Rs. Per Liter: Rs per Imperial Gallon in Parentheses) y
_Gasoline                                 Automotive           Industrial Diesel dl  -                      Furnace Oil el
Super         Regular J        Kerosene           Diesel        Low Sulphur f/   High Sulphur      500 Seconds    80W  Seconds       1.000 Seconds
1975-October 3         2.93 (13.30)    2.82 (12.80)    0.90  (4.08)       1.17  (5.30)      1.19  (5.40)      1.12  (5.10)    0.99  ($.50)   0.97  (4.40)    0.95  (4.30)
1977-March Is            -                      -       0.77  (3.48)       -                 -       -            -        -       -        -       -       -
1978-December 21       4.40 (20.00)    4.07 (18.50)           -       .    -       -         *      -          -      -        -        -       -       -       -       -
1979-June 13           6.60 (30.00)      -      -         -       -       2.31 (10.50)      2.64 (12.00)     2.27 (10.30)    2.13  (9.70)   2.09  (9.50)    t.98  (9.00)
-September I        -                               2.35 (10.68)       -                             -       -         -      -            -        -               -
1980-Jaumary 26        8.25 (37.50)      -              3.01 (13.68)      2.97 (13.50)    3.41 (15.50)       2.93 (13.30)    2.79 (12.70)   2.75 (12.50)    2.64 (12.00)
-Jure 20           8.80 (40.00)      -      -       3.34 (15.18)      4.62 (21.00)     5.06 (23.00)      4.58 (20.80)    4.44 (20.20)   4.40 (20.00)    4.29 (19.50)
1981-Jarsary 19        9.35 (42.50)      -              3.89 (17.68)      5.94 (27.00)      6.60 (30.00)     5.68 (25.80)      -       -                -       -      -
-April 4          10.00 (45.50)   -             -         -                -           -          -      -         -         -         -       -
1983-March 2          12.00 (54.58       -      -       5.20 (23.68)      6.75 (30.69)      7.90 (35.91)     6.45 (29.32)      -     -          -        -      -      -
-July 22          13.50 (61.40)      -      -       6.58 (29.97)      8.13 (36.98)     9.28 (42.20)      7.83 (35.61)    4.89 (22.22)   4.84 (22.00)    4.72 (21.45)    o
-December 5             -       -       -        -           -         -      -         -       -         -      -        5.22 (23.73)   4.87 (22.15)       -      -
1986-April              -       -        -      -        -       -         - t-                     -                         4.22 (19.18)   3.87 (17.59)    3.72 (16.91)
1989-April 19         16.00 (72.73)              -           -            8.55 (38.87)     9.70 (44.10)       8.25 (37.50)  4.55 (20.68)   4.20 (19.09)    4.05 (18.41)
-Septeober 29    20.00 (90.92)       -      *        -       -        9.60 (43.64)    10.90 (49.55)       9.20 (41.82)   5.00 (22.75)   4.70 (21.37)    4.55 (20.68)
1990-August 15        25.00(112.50)             -       8.00 (36.00)    11.00 (49.50)    12.50 (56.25)    10.60 (47.70)   5.75 (25.88)   5.40 (24.30)    5.25 (23.63)
-November 6       35.00(157.50)      -      -       8.80 (39.60)    13.00 (58.50)    15.00 (67.50)    12.50 (56.25)   6.60 (29.70)   6.30 (28.35)    6.00 (27.00)
-Decedraer 27    30.00(135.00)       -      -        -       -       11.00 (49.50)    13.00 (59.10)    10.60 (56.25)
pj    Prices are Coloebo spot prices; a margin to cover transport costs Is added to out-station prices for all products except gasoline, which as of April 1981. sells
at a uniform price island-wide.
_y   Although Sri Lanka has officially gone metric, prices for petroleua products continue, for the time being, to be specified in irperial gallans terms.  Liter
prices have been obtairnd by dividing imperial gallon prices by 4.5461.
S/   Marketing of regular grade gasoline was discontinued in early 1979.
y     Industrial diesel is often referred to as heavy diesel; the two terms are used interchangeably in Sri Lanka.  Prior to 1972. low sulphur industrial diesel uas not
marketed.
SI   Differentiated furrace oil was not marketed prior to 1972.
I/   As of January 1981. low sulphur industrial diesel is marketed as Super diesel.
Sources:  Ceylon Petroleum Corporation; and Central Bank of Sri Lanka.                                                                                                          .



Sri Lanka
Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project
Ceylon Electricity Board Organization Chart
| ~~Cha mannI
Vice Chalrrna
I       ~Sectary              I
|   Gsneral Manager
A.G.M.             A.G.MA.            A.G.M              A.G.M.            AG.M.fo             A.Giern            F.arc                CinefrChief
parn  ~       RernHadIorsm                                             enrton CPlannangoandMSyagem                               Auditor
- Serior           Senlor           - D.G.M.               .G.M.              D.G.M.           D.G.M.                                                                     a
G.G M.             D.G.M.             Personnel            Generaon           Laxpa            System
O D.GJA,           D.G.M. -- DG.M. -                       D.G.M. . ------    CombxO
Northern           Colnbo             Commercla            Transmission        MalGM.          0.G.M.
t O.G.M    .         D.G0M.           D.G.M.           *  D.G.M.. -       :   Complex          Uotrol
Noffh              Wbsern             Tralbg       |       Distrbut'on &
Central            (South)                                 Ru*M  *   Rwl  .       .
D.G.M.             D.G.M.                              *               ,      Complex
Eastern            Sorn                                  - D.G.M. 
Reh,"Wltaio
O .G.M.             D.G.M.                                 PR e_o
cearaal 
D.G.M.            D.G.M.                              '                 '                                                   d
Westen             Uva 
(Norih)                                                                      ........
D.M.   , .                   *      PM.    :                                          RG.M.  Assistant GenalwMarnagr
LD.G.M.                                        * PM.                     S *   Transmission
Weslem                                 ,  Trahing                         :       panion                              ,             .G.M.  Deputy Gene  Managl r
.......        .'........                                                                   PM.  ProjedMa nagr
man                                     PM.
' Iolmatin,                         'Rehabilitation.                                               Co----iCoatioX
,,C,|"r,,.     ,                                                                                I~ ~~~~~~~~w  
L  .  P~~~~~~~~~~m rIa   1n
_   _   .  _  .  ,  _, 0 @ Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sidsw4op:t



- 32 -
SECOND EOWER DISTRIBUTION AN. TRANS ITJON PROJECT
ABSORPTION OF AFFECTED LOCAL AUITHORITY STAFF
Estimated             Estimated
CategorV                      Number of Staff      Absor2tion by CEB
Electrical Engineers                        8                      4
Accountants                                 1                      1
Technical Officers                         93                     81
Skilled and Semi-skilled Labor            333                    296
Unskilled Labor                           539                    517
oeter Readers                              66                     51
Drivers                                    12                      6
Clerks                                    263                    158
Helpers                                   156
Total                                   1.471                  1.l14
Note: 1. Trade tests and interviews will be conducted to assertain
suitability of staff for absorption by CEB. Consequent to such
tests appropriate grade will be assigned to each person to be
absorbed by CEB.
2. All staff taken over by CEB will be provided with the required
training.



SRI LANKA
SECOND POUER DISTEIBTIO  AM) TRANSNISSION PROJECT
______  __......................................... ___.......................
CEMLON ELECtRICITY BOARD
Generation Capacity Balance 1981-1990
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985         1986        1987        1988        1989         1990
Hydo Capocity                   ---   -         -     -------     ------      ------ - .-                                      -------      ..--
Laxapana Complex:
LaksapanaC3x8.33+2x12.5)          So           50     SOC 50)       C 54 )    5   50) 5QC t5)           C 50)    5CC 50)    50c 50)    SO( 50)
New LaxapulmC2W50)               100          100   lOOC 5)    100(100)    100t100)    10Qt1) 1       00000)   lOOClOC)    100(100)    100(100)
WimlasurendraC2x2S)               so           50     SOC 25)    SOC 25)    50C 25)        SOC 50)    Soc SO)    SOC SO)       50C SO)    SOC 50)
PoLpitiya(Cx3T.5)                  5           75     75t 75)    75C 75)      75C 75      75  75)    75c 75)       75( 75)     75( 75)     75t 75)
Canyvo(2x30)                                          30C 30)    30t 30)      30( 30)     30C 30)     30( 30)      30C 30)     60( 60)     60C 60)
aaweli Ccqplex:
Ukuwela(2xWO)                     40           40     40C 40)    40C 40)    40C 40)    40C 40)    40C 38)    40C 38)           40C 38)     40C 38)
BowatenmCa1x4O)                   38           38     38( 38)     38( 38)     40( 38)     40( 38)     40C 38)      40t 40)     40C 40)     40( 40)
Victorfa(3x70)                                                    70C 70)   210(210)    210(210)   210C210)    210(210)    210C210)   210(210)
KotinLe(3x67)                                                                 67( - )    67( 67)    67C 67)    201(201)    20M(201M    201(201)
RandmnlgaLa(2x6l)                                                                         122(122)    122(122)    122(122)    122(122)    122(122)
Rantae(2x24.5)                                                                                                                             49C 49
Nini Nydro:
Inuinlyagala(2x2.4+2x3.1)         10          10      lo( - )    1O( - )                  II( )  11( 10)  II( 10)    1I( 10)   I1( 10)    11  10)
Udaialawet(3x2)                    6            4      6(-)        6(-        61-)         6( 6)       6(  6)       6C 6)       6C  6)      6C 6)
Nilambe(21.76)                                                                                                      3C 3)       3(  3)      3C 3)
.- -        ------      -------  _-......    ..........____. ..... ..    .......  ,-_-_-...      .......    ___ .......
Total Hydro(NW)                  369         369    399(308)   4J9(428)    679(568)    801(798)    801(796)    938(935)    968(965)  1017(1014)
Thermal Capecity(V)
Stem_KelwnitissaM2z25)            SO           SO     SO( 25)    SOC 25)      SO( - )    5OC - )    50C - )    SOC - )         SO( 46)     SOC 46)
Gas Turbine:Kelanitissa(6         sO          120    120S 80)    120(100)    120(100)    120(120)    120(120)    120(120)    120(120)    120(120)
Diesel:Sapusaskada(4x20)                                          60( 40)     80( 60)     80C 80)    80( 80)       80 80)      80( 80)     JO  80)
Pettah(2X3)                 6           6       6( 6)       6( 6)       6( - )      6C - )      6( - )      6( 3)
Chunmmaa5x244x1)           14          14      14( 14)     14( 14)     14( - )     14( - )     14( - )      14   7)     14   7)     14( 7)
Total Therml(NW)                 150          190    190(025)   250(185)   270(160)    270(200)    270(200)    270(210)    264t253)    264(253)           1 
Total Capacity(NU)               519          559    589(433)    719(613)   949(728)   1071(998)   1071(996)  1208(1145)  1232(1218)  128101Ub.'
Raxinu De andOM)                 413          431         437         487         515         540          570         594         618         640
Effective Plant RainCEl)         106          128          -4         126         213         458         426          551         600         627       '
Note: Figures in parwthesis are effective capacity.



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSNISSION PROJECT
...... ............... .....................................
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD-ENERGY BALANCE 1981-1990
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990
Generation(Glh)              .......     ....        ......      ...... ...             ------- ,               ....                    ..
...............
Laxapana Caplex:
Laxapana(3x8.33+2x12.5)          172         259         160         330         278         266         235         266         264         269
Rem Laksapana(2x50)              S1O         505         406         456         457         439         474         415         483         488
Wilaasurendra8X22S)              97         111          38         148         152         112          93         112         128         113
PolpitiyaC2x37.5)                416         407         287         432         368         366         376         363         298         369
Canyon(2x30)                                              79         147         120         136         137          56         155         153
11ahav.ti Cwplex:
Ukuwela(2x2O)                    200         207         146         265         201          89         120         146         109         181
Bowatennaclx4O)                   57         100          60         166          99          73          39          43          62          76
Victor iaC3x70)                                                       89         586         839         454         523         620         611
KotmaleC3,67)                                                                     90         107          10         435         330         S20
RandenigalaC2x6l)                                                                            172         200         210         351         332
Rantamkbe(2x24.5)                                                                                                                             98
Nini Hydro:
Inginiyagalta2x2.4+2x3.1)         10          10          16          42          30          38          34          19          12          17
UdamaLawe((3x2)                    9           9           5          16          14           8           5           8           1           6
Ni lambe(2x1 .76)                                                                                                      1           8          12
.......     .......  .  ... .......  ...... .   .......  . ... .......  ------- .  .. -------   .......  . ... .........._ ...... .... .._.
Ttzot Hydro                 1571        1608        1217        2091        2395        2645        2177        2597        2801        3145          w
Stcem: KeLanitissaM2x25)          98          89         147          11                                                                       I
Gas Turbine: KelanitissaC        183         353         735         117           9           1         314          83           1
Diesel: SapugaskandaC4x20)                                            39           )           6         211         116          52           3
Pettah(2x3)                7           5           7           7                                   5
Chumakam(5x2+4x1          13          11           8           1                                               2           3           1
~~~~~~~~...........  -------  ....... . ... .......  ....... ... ----. ..... .......... . .. ........ .....  .......  ........... ... ... ...
Total Theruml                301         45P         897         170          69           7         530         201          56           5
Total Generation(GWh)           1872        2066        2114        2261        2464        2652        2707        2798        2857        3150
Losses: Station Supply            17          17          21          11          11          10          15          14          14          16
Networks                 352         363         301         374         392         410         439         413         491         557
Total Losses                 369         380         322         385         403         420         454         427         505         573
Net Energy Supply(GUh)          1503        1686        1792        1876        2061        2232        2253        2371        2352        2577
Energy Sales(GWh)
.................
Residential                      217         258         305         316         346         368         382         405         420         491
Comercial                        220         235         244         241         280         305         341         359         357         410
Industrfal                       678         739         752         791         850         926         m           671         555         57G
Hotels                                        27          48          59          70          77          55          37          10           9
Time of Day                                                                                              115         282         363         397
Local Authorities                381         418         433         458         502         543         571         601         631         675
Street Lighting                    8           9          10          11          12          13          15          16          17          17         0 w
----        .......     ... ....    ... ....    ----        .......    ... ...... ..------  *--- *------*-    .......
Total Sales                     1504        1686        1792        1876        2060        2232        2252        2371        2353        2s7
Load Factor  )                    52          55          55          53          55          56          54          54          53          56
Notes: 1. Energy sales to the residential sector includes sales to religious institutions.
2. 1990 energy sales figures are provisional.



-  35-                                      ANNEX  3.4
Page  1 of  2
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
EXISTING AND PLANNED TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS
EXISTING TRANSMISSION LINES/CABLES
Conductor                                                           Length          No. of
Voltage, kV       Cross-Section, sq, m            From                To                     km            Circuits
220 SingLe Conductor. 400                       Biyagoam           Kotugoda                 23.0                2
Bundle Conductor, 400          Victoria           Blyagama                103.0               2
Bundle Conductor, 400          Victoria           Rante be                 18.4                1
Single Conductor, 400 q/       Blyagam            Pannipitiys              17.0               2
Bundle Conductor, 300 M/       Biyagame           Ketanitissa              16.0               2
177.4
132 Single Conductor, 125                       Balangods          GaUe                     99.0                2
Kolotmawa          Sapugaskmnda              6.5               2
Sapugaskanda       Kotugoda                 16.7               2
Kotugoda           Bolawatta                21.0               2
132 SingLe Conductor, 175                       New Laxapana       Potpitlya                 8.0                2
Old Larapana       Polpitiya                 8.0               2
Canyon             New Laxapana             10.0               1
Wimalasurendra    old Laxapana               5.1               2
New Laxapana       Old Laxapana              0.6               2
New Laxapmna       Balangoda               44.0                2
Polpitiya          Thulhiriya k/            52.0               2
Thuthiriya        Orumata                  36.0                2
Oruwala            Kolomawa                 14.0               2
Polpitiya          Kolorawa                66.1                2
Potlptiya          Kotmle                   35.0               1
Kotmle             Anuradhapura            172.0               1
Polpitiya          Kiribathkumbura         46.0                1
Kiribathkumbura   Kururegalas               34.6               2
Kiribathkumbura   UkumeLa                   15.0               1
Ukuwela            Bowatenre                32.0               1
Ukukela            Habarana                 81.0               1
Habarana           Anuradhapura            49.0                1
Arwradhapura       Trincomalee             110.0               2
Anuradhapura       Chunnakam               198.0               2
Kolonnawa          Pa.mfpftfya              13.0               2
Pannipitlya        Ratnalana                 6.0               2
Parmipitiya        Natugam                 48.0                2
Bolawatta          Puttlam                  84.0               2
Rantembe           Badula                   37.0               1
Sapugaskanda      BSyagama                   2.1               2
132 Single Conductor, 400                       Kolorwiaa          Kelanitissa               2.2               2
1351.9
66 (To be Removed), 125                        Old Laxapana       Badulla                  95.8                2
Old Laxapana       Avissawella              36.2               2
*                   Avissawella        Kolomawa                 47.8                2
179.8
132 Cabte        Kolonnawa                      Kollupitiya                                  5.8                1
Cable                          Kollupitiya        Fort                      2.7               1
Cable                          Fort               Kelanitissa             4A.9                1
PLANNED TRANSMISSION LINES (Year of Commissioning)
132             (1991), 400                Balangoda          Samanalawewa             19.1                2
(1991), 175               Samanala           Embilipitiya             38.0                2
(1991), 1t5               Habarans           VaLafchchenaf            96.0                1
(1993), 175               New Laxapana       Nuwaraeleyn              35.0                2
(193), 175                Nuwaraeliya        Badulla                  35.0                2
(1994), 175               Embilipitiya       Natara                   62.0                2
(1994), 175               Churnakam          Kakanesantural            9.0                2
(1994), 175               Anuradhapura       Puttalam                 80.0                2
(1994), 175               Anuradhapura       Nannar                   88.0                2
462.1
g/ Constructed 220 kV but operated at 132 kV.
1y Including 24km of line from tapping point to the substation.



-  36 -                                    ANNEX  3.4
Page 2 of 2
SRI LANlR
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND                    SMSIOPRCT
EXISTNG AND PLANNED IMSKS51IO  AND DISTRIBUTIOR ETWORK-S
Grid Suttatlon
Sr.   VoLtage kV              Location         Transformer Capacity            Maximum Osnd  Year of Comuissioning
No.   Primary/Secondary                               NVA                           NVA
1.   220/132/33              0Iyagma           2 x 60 (250) I/                     12.5        Existing
2.  220/132/33               Kotugoda          2 x 60 (250)  /                     35.6        Existing
3.   220/132/33, 220/132   Ranteabe            2 x 10 (34.5), 1 x (105) I/          6.0        Existing
4.   132/33                  ChbrAmaku         2 x 30 + 1 x 10                     38.0        Existing
5.                           Kiliroochchl      I x 10                               4.0        Existing
6.                           Trincomalee       2 x 10                               7.4        Existing
7.                           Anuradhrpura      2 x 10                               8.6        Existing
8.                           Naberana          2 x 10                               8.8        Existing
9.                           UkuweLa           2 x 15                              20.1        Existing
10.                           Kirfbathku.bura   2 x 31.5                            17.5        Existing
11.                           Kurunegala        2 x 16.S                            17.0        Existing
12.                           Sapusaskanda      3 x 30                              55.0        Existing
13.                           Boltaatta         2 x 30                              34.4        Existing
14.                           Puttalam          2 x 7.5                             17.0        Existirng
15.                           Kolmrmawa         3 x 30                              60.0        Existing
16.                           Kelanitissa       2 x 60                              60.9        Existing
17.                           Paemipitiya       2 x 30                              33.0        Existing
i8.                           Ratmalana         2 x 30                              50.0        Existing
19.                           Matugama          2 x 30                              18.6        Existing
20.                           Fort              2 x 30                              20.0        Existing
21.                           Kolltuptly.       2 x 30                              30.0        Existing
22.                           Thulhirfya        2 x 30                              18.9        Existing
23.                           Oruwale           4 x 6.3                              3.0        Existing
34.                           Salangods         2 x 10                              20.5        Existing
25.                          Doenyaya           2 x 10                              17.6        Existing
26.                           Gtlle             2 x 30* 1 x 10                      30.0        Existing
27.                           Wimalasurendra    2 x 30                               8.0        Existing
28.                           Inhiniysgala      2 x 15                              17.3        Existing
Velaichchenal     2 x 10                                          1991 Ongoing
132/33                 Enbilipitiya      2 x 10 (New)                                    1992 Ongoing
Ampara            a x 10 (Now)                                    1993 Ongoing
Pcv'mdurc         2 x 30 (Add)                                    1994 Ongoing
PuttaLam          2 x 30 (Upgraed)                                199S Ongoing
NMtars            2 x 30 (New)                                    1994 Ongoing
Kankesantural    2 x 10 (New)                                     1994 Ongoing
Nannar            2 x 20 (New)                                    1994 Piopo ed
66/33                  Padukka           4 x 3                               12,0        To be dlam ntled
Avieseotlla       2 x 6                               11.0        To be conv rted to 132 kV
Norton Bridge    2 x 5                                 9.5        To be dismantled
Nuwraeoliyo       4 x 3                               13.0        To be converted to 132 kV
BEdulla           6 x 3                               18.0        To be comnerted to 132 kV
132/66/33              Kolonnewe          I x 30                             12.0        To be canverted to 132/33 kV
FociLitrf                                      IxiSt1na                   ELAUMN
33-kV Lines/Underground Cables               1060(/76 km                3265/04 km
11-kV Lines/Undergrourd Cables               2000/700 km                 560/50 km
LV Lines/Underground Cables                  20600 km                    4300 km
33/11-kV Substations                           140 Nos.                 16 Nos, 160 NVA
33/0.4-kV )
11/0.4-kV  ) Substations                      7000 Nos.                   2500 Nos.
jj  Capacitfie  outside the parentheses relate to 33 kV windngs nd within parentheses to 132 kV windirn.



-    - -EX LL5
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CEB'S LEAST-COST GENERATION EXPANSION PLAN 1991-2001
Year                   Cavacitv Addition
1991 
1992              Samanalaweva (120 MW, hydro)
1993
1994
1995
1996              Diesels (2 x 20 MW, Sapugaskanda)
1997              Hydro (72 MW, Madulu Oya)
1998              Gas Turbines (3 x 22 MW)
1999              Hydro (64 MW, Upper Rotmale)
Diesels (2 x 20 MW)
Gas Turbine. (2 x 22 MW)
2000              Diesels (2 x 20 MW)
Gas Turbine (1 x 22 MW)
2001              Hydro (40 MW, Broadlands)
Diesels (3 x 20 KW)
Gas Turbines (2 x 22 MW)
Note: 1/  The addition of 2 x 20 MW diesel units at Sapugaskanda is a
committed project. All other projects are planned.
7j The development sequence of new hydro projects is subject to
change following completion of feasibility studies currently
under preparation.



SRI LANKA
SECOID POR DISTREUTION ANID TRAMSNISSIOU PROJECT
CEYLON ELECTRICITY 30A1D
Foreat Caaity and Energy Batlns 1991-2001
1991        1992        1993        1994        1995        1996         1997        1998        1999        2000      2001
... .... ..... ..... .................. ........  ......   .........  ......  .........  ... ........  ......  .........  ......  .........   ......
Cacity Balane (NM)
....................
yro:
Laxaupa COaplex                  335         335         335          335         335         335         335         335         335         33S       335
NamIl CoplIm                     660         660          660         660         660         660         660         660         660          660       660
Sam_nla_wa                                   120          120         120         120         120         120         120          120         120       120
Nadlu Oa                                                                                                  n           72           n           n         n
LUper Kotmle                                                                                                                        6           of        6
Broadtwle                                                                                                                                                 40
Total Nydro                      995        111S         1115        1115        111S        1115        11          1187        1251         1251      1291
Therml:
Stem : Ketonitiss                 S0          50           S0          50          S0          50          50          50          S0           S0
Gs Turbine: Ketanitissa          108         108          108         108         108         108         108          n           36
Diesel: Sapugasknda               n           n            n           72 nn                  112         112         112          112         112       112        1
Diesel: other Sites                                                                                                                40          80        140
as Turbines                                                                                                            66          110         132       176       Lo
......      ........ ......         ........ ......         ........ ......          ...    . ... ......     ........ ......        Go....... .............. ............ ........
Total Thbrmtl                    230         230         230          230         230         270         270         300         348         374        428
Total Capacity (MI)             1225        1345         1345        1345        1345        1385        1457        1487        1599         1625      1719
aximu Dmand (M)                  682         72           768         818         858         910         966        1044         112?        1217      131S
Reerve nMorgin (X)              79.6        86.5         75.1        64.4        56.8        52.2        50.8        42.4        41.9         33.5      30.7
Energy Balance (Wh)
...................
Energy Sles (VCL)               2758        2951        3181         3429        3704        4000        4320        4666        5039         S442      5877
Sales Growth CX)                 7.0         7.0          7.8         7.8         8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0        8.0
Syste Losss (X)                   16          15           14          13          12          12          12          12           12          12        12
G6neration Required (Glh)       3283        3472        3699         3942        4209        4545        4909        5302        5726        6184       6679
Supptlfed by:
Hydro                           3135        3407         3569        3715        3856        3960        4270        4322        4593        4617       4770         I
Thermal                          148          65          130         227         353         585         639         980         1133        1567      1909
Load Factor (X)                   55          55           55         S5           56          57          58          55          58           55        S8
Note: Energy balanc shown Is based on weighted average hydrological conditions.



SRI LANKI
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
.................................. .............................................. ................. 
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOAD
........................
flumer of Consumers 198t-1990
.............................
1981         1982        1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989         1990
Residential                    195,025      227,857      259,687      301,483      335,311      370,048     411,322      457,199      503,045      606,297
Comnercial                      37,839       41,510       b4,440       48,538       50,817       53,729       56,915      61,323       68,784       82,752
Indestries
High VoLtage                     63           70           73           75           80           85          93           100          85           90
Other                         5,239        6,052        6.419        6,959        7,326       8,343        9,361       10,366       10,612       12,398
Locat Authorities                  218          218          218          218          218          212          967        1,034        1,069         515
Street Lighting                    319          353          358          358          358          624          696          702          740         814
............. ......... ......... .....................    .........  ......   .........  ......   .........  ......   .........  ......
Totat                          238,703      276.060      311,195      357,631      394,110      433,041     479,354      530,724      584,335      702,866
w
-.1



- 40-ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 3
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Distribution
The project would rehabilitate and expand the distribution systems
of 53 local authorities (licensees) which would be taken over by CEB under the
proposed project. The present distribution systems of these licensees mostly
consist of 11-kV and lower voltage overhead lines and 11/.4-kV pole-mounted or
plinth-mounted distribution substations.   CEB has standardized following
conductor/distribution transformer sizes:
(a) Lines
33-kV conductor, ACSR, 175,75 and 30 sq. mm (Lynx, Racon and Weasel)
11-kV conductor, ACSR, 75, 30 sq. mm (Racon and Weasel)
400 volt conductor, AAC, 100, 60 and 40 sq. mm (Wasp, Fly and Lady
Bird)
(b) Underground Cables
33-kV PILC, XLPE 240 and 185 sq. m
11-kV PILC, XLPE 240, 150, 95 and 70 sq. mm
(c) Distribution Substations
33/11-kV 5 or 10 MVA Transformer (s)
11/.4-kV 25 kVA to 160 kVA, pole-mounted
11/.4-kV 250 kVA to 630 kVA, plinth-mounted
After detailed survey and technical study, CEB would, as required,
(i) add either new primary 33/11-kV substations or 11-kV ring main units;
(ii) reconductor with higher size conductors; (iii) convert the existing single
phase and two phase lines to three phase lines; (iv) rehabilitate the existing
underground 11-kV and low voltage system; and (v) extend the systems to new
areas.   CEB's preliminary survey has identified following requiremnsts of
materialls
Overhead Lines:
(a) 340 km of new 33-kV lines;
(b) 60 km of new 11-kV lines;
(c) 600 km of new low voltage lines; and
(d) 600 km of reconductoring of old low voltage lines.



- 41 -                         ILX 4.,1
Page 2 of 3
U.nderground Cables t
(a) 35 km of new 11-kV cableal and
(b) 50 km of new low voltage cables.
Distribution Substationst
(a) 33/.4-kV 50 MVA of various sizesl and
(b) 11/.4-kV 12 MVA of various sizes.
Service Connectionss
50,000 meters of various sizes and servica materials for replacing
50,000 old consumer services.
Transmis s ion
It is necessary to strengthen the high voltage transmission system
north of Colombo.  The present 220 km, 175 sq. mm, 132-kV double circuit
Kotmale-Habarana-Anuradhapura line feeds Trincomales, Jaffna and Puttalam
loads.  This line would be fully loaded by 1996/1997.  System studies have
shown that the least-cost option for transmission expansion In the area Is a
new 220-kV Victoria-Anuradhapura line. Purthermore, at present both the above
132-kV circuits are not looped in at Rotmale and griygsma grid substations
making system operation difficult and unreliable. The looping vill improve
system operations.  The present 37 km, 175  q. mm Rantemb.-Badulla 132-kV
single circuit is already fully loaded under normal operation and gets
overloaded when there is outage of 220-kV Victoria-Randenigala single circuit.
Rantembe-Badulla single circuit needs to be strengthened by the addition of
another single circuit strung on double circuit designed towers. To Improve
the deteriorating system voltages, it is also necessary to provide reactive
compensation at selected substations. The project therefore provides fort
(a)  152 km of 400 sq. mm 220-kV Victorla-Anuradhapura single circuit line
strung on double circuit towers to enable the stringing of a second
circuit later;
(b)  37 km of 175 sq. mm of 132-kV Rantembe-Badulla single circuit on
double circuit towers and 8 km of 132-kV 175 sq. m double circuit
line for looping in and out at Kotmale substation;
(c)  a new 220-kV substation at Anuradhapura, extension of 220-kV Victoria
substation, and 132-kV Rantembe and Badulla substations for the new
line and Kotmale and Eriygama substations for looping in the second
132-kV circuit; and
(d)  33-kV  reactive  compensation  equipment  at Matugama  (20 MVAR),
Pannipitiya (20 MVAR) and Anuradhapura (30 NVAR).



- 42 -                        ANEX 4.I
Page 3 of 3
Basic insulation levels for 132 and 220-kV systems would be 650 and
1050-kV respectively. Self-supporting steel towers would be used with one or
two ground wires with spans of approximately 300 or 335 meters having minimum
clearances between lowest conductor and ground of 6.71 meters or 7.01 metera,
depending on the voltage level. Conductors would be of aluminium with core of
reinforced steel and ground wires would be of galvanized steel.
High speed distance carrier protection with single pole reclosing
would be used for the 220-kV line. To assist in fault detection, disturbance
recorders would be provided at Victoria and 'muradhapura ends of the line. The
220-kV substation would be of 2 1/2 breaker type. The switchgear would use SF6
as arc extinction medium.  The transformer rating at Anuradhapura would be
220/132/33-kV, 100 MVA. For 132-kV line, high speed distance carrier protec-
tion would be provided. The switchgear would be of minimum oil or SF6 type.
33-kV compensation equipment would be designed to be switched in banks of
appropriate sizes.



- 43 
ANNEX 462
SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
SLRS (Million)             piSS Million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Distribution
Distribution Lines/Cables         99.5    184.7    284.2       2.4     4.5       6.9
Distrlbution Substations          65.0    120.7    185.7       1.6     2.9       4.5
Consumer Services, Meters         37.5     51.9      89.4      0.9     1.3       2.2
Vehicles                          20.4      19.6     40.0      0.5     0.5        1.0
Compensation Equipment             0.1       1.2      1.3       -        -         -
Civ!t Works and Erection         269.7        -     269.7      6.6       -       6.6
Way Leave and Land Develoament    10.0        -      10.0      0.2       -        0.2
CEB's Administration Cost         48.8        -      48.8      1.2       -        1.2
Transmisson
Transmission Lines               473.7    627.9   1101.6    11.6    15.3         26.9
Grid Substatlons                 131.5    205.8    337.3       3.2     5.0       8.2
Compensation Equipment             8.7     53.3      62.0      0.2     1.3        1.5
Way Leave and Land Development    43.5        -      43.5      1.1       -        1.1
CEB's Administration Cost         20.0        -      20.0      0.5       -       0.5
Technical Assistanc
Capacity Building
Consultancy                       5.5      49.5     55.0      0.1     1.1        1.2
Training                          3.8      25.4     29.2      0.1     0.6        0.7
Project Support Consultancy        5.9     53.3      59.2      Q.1     1.2       1.3
i"ydroproject Consultancy          6.2     56.1      62.3      0.z     1.6        1.8
Totai Base Cost                 1249.8   1449.4   2699.2    30.5    35.3         65.8
Physical Contingencies           125.0    144.9    269.9       3.0     3.5       6.5
Price Contingencies              296.8    337.4    634.2       3.0     3.7       6.7
Total Project Cost              1671.6   1931.7   3603.3    36.5    42.5         79.0



-                                AM 
IDA Financial Year            Disburuments        U   Million
and Sagme. e&4n.RI*_                           laaLasxa..    SAmaJhaZLxa..
im
December 31, 1991             2.0                2.0                 4
June 30, 1992                 2.0                4.0                 8
ia
December 31, 1992             4.5                8.5                17
June 30, 1993                 4.5               13.0                26
im
Decomber 31, 1993             6.1               19.1                36
June 30, 1994                 6.1               25.2                50
m2a
December 31, 1994             6.1               3193                63
June 30, 1995                 6.1               37.4                75
December 31, 1995             2.6               40.0                60
June 30, 1996                 2.6               42.6                85
December 31, 1996             2.6               45.2                90
June 30, 1997                 2.6               47.8                96
December 31, 1997             1.2               49.0                96
June 30, 1998                 1.0               50.0               100



- 45 -
SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1901       1992         1093          1994        1095        1g90       1097
DESCRIPTION
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~  2  3  4  1                 3- 4 _   2 1    4  _ 2  3  4  1  2  3 4 _  2  3 4  _ 2 _  4
DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT                                        30 _
TAKE OVER                                18                     i          
SURVEY OF LICENSEE SYSTEMS               18
PROCUREMENT
Bid Documents Preparation              4
I at set                                                3 )  3
2ndSet(    6 
Bidding Perfod                               6                  6
I at Set                               _
2nd Set
Oid Evaluation & Award                             6 
1 St Set
2nd Set
Manufacturing                                                  1
1 st Set                                                     1               12
2ndSet                                               _     _1sm2 
Shipment & Transport to Site Stores                                   6
1sat Set                                                                               6
2nd Set                                                                            seea
CONSTRUCTION WORK SY LOCAL
CONTRACTORS
Bid Documents Preparation              33
lSot set
2nd Set                                                                i
Bidding Perlod                                             6
'Ist Set                                                                     6
2nd Set                                                                   a'..
Bid Evaluation & Award                                           9
I at Set                            I
gnd SetS 
Construction Work                                                               2
1sat Sot                                                                        1214
2nid Set......
CONSTRUCTION WORK BY CEB
TRANSMISSION COMPONENT
220 kV
132kV   (*'
Bid Documents PreparaUon            3      6
Bidding Period                                                         6
Evaluaiton of Bids 
war ofContra                                              2                       1
PManuuacrO andTransoort I
Construction & CommVslonlng
REACTIVE COMPENSATION
EQUIPMENT
Oid Documents Preparation
Bidding Period
Evaluation of Sides 
Awar ofCo2rs
| (capacltvpulidin}t                                                                               12    1 
Constuction & Commissioning
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IPOleet)3
Terms of Reference 
Invitaton of Proposals
Evaluation of Proposals                                                            641  1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(Capacity BuIIdinOI
Terms of Reference
Invitation of Proposals                                                                                          
Evaluation of Proposals 
Note:  ADl numbers are the months taon to comiplete the activity.                                             subakw48826a



ANNX 4. 5
- 46 -                     Page L of 3
SRI AI
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSHISSIOA PROJECT
Reporting Reguirements
1.        During project implementation, CEB would need to report progress on
the physical and institutional components of the project through quarterly
progress reports and on the operations and financial position of the Board
through annual reports.
2.        Quarterly reports should cover (a) technical progress; (b) cost
estimates, expenditures and disbursements; and (c) management and operations
of CEB and should be sent to IDA within one month of the end of each calendar
quarter. The scope and contents of various quarterly reports are indicated in
paras. 5-13 below.
3.        CEB's unaudited annual financial statements and an annual report
summarizing CEB's key performance indicators should be sent to IDA not later
than four months after the end of each fiscal year.
4.        Within six months of the Credit closing date, CEB would need to
prepare and submit to IDA a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the execution
and initial operation of the project, its costs and the benefits derived from
it, the accomplishment of the objectives of the Credit and the lessons learned.
Near the end of the project implementation period, IDA shall inform CEB of the
suggested topics to be covered by the PCR.
Quarterly Technical Progress Reports
S.        The purpose of these reports is to provide information on significant
events which occurred during the reporting period, together with an evaluation
of progress achieved and of the prospects of future progress. To this end, the
information contained in the reports should cover at least the following
aspects of the projects
(a) physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b) a comparison of the actual progress of construction at the end of the
reporting period with the original forecast of progress at this date;
(c) actual or contemplated material deviations from the original plans
or schedules, except that any such changes which would require prior
consultation with IDA should be reported immediately and subsequently
included in the next quarterly report;
(d) other changes, events or conditions would materially delay the
construction of the project or increase its cost; and
(e) the expected dates of completion of the principal physical elements
of the project.



ANNEX 4.5
- 47 -                        Page 2 of 3
6.        Text of the Revort.  The text of the report should describe the work
performed on each major item during the reporting period. Where appropriate,
the text should include explanations of and comments on:
(a)  actual or expected material deviations from the original (or amended)
design or construction schedule;
(b)  actual or expected difficulties or delays, any measures taken or
planned to correct them, and the probable effects on the construction
schedule;
(c)  expected changes in the completion date of any major part of the
project or the project as a whole;
(d)  actual or expected delays in delivery of major items of equipment.
Reasons for such delays should be given, and their possible effect
on the construction schedule should be estimated;
(e)  changes in key personnel in the staff of CEB or its consultants;
(f)  any actual or expected event or condition which may affect the cost
of the project;
(g)  any unusual occurrences affecting the progress of the project.
7,        Construction Schedule.   Bar charts should be included to show
separately scheduled and actual progress on each of the main components of the
project. The chart indicating the progress of the transmission works should
show separately progress on line survey, foundations, erection of towers,
stringing  of  conductors,   substation  construction,   site  testing  and
commissioning. The chart indicating the progress of the distribution works
should show separately progress on the construction of 33-kV/ll-kV/low voltage
lines and cables, distribution substations and service connections.
8.        Schedule of Orders  and Deliveries.   A schedule of orders and
deliveries similar to Exhibit A should be completed for major items of
equipment and materials.
9.        A separate table in the format similar to Exhibit A should be
completed for all supply and erect contracts and erection contracts.
Quarter Report on Cost Estimates. Expenditures and Disbursements
10.       The report consists of one table, of which a format is attached
(Exhibit B). This table should be submitted with, and cover the same period
as the technical progress report.



- 48 -                        ANNEX 34 
Pogo 3 of 3
11.       The figures of "Original Estimated Costs" shoulo be those used in the
corresponding table in IDA's Appraisal Report.  The table should show any
substantial chauges in the cost estimates that have become necessary since the
previous report. The reasons for such changea should be explained in the text
of the report. Estimates should be reviewed and if necessary revised from time
to time. Such revisions may be necessary after important contracts have been
awarded, for instance, or when a substantial change has taken place in exchange
rates. In any case, the estimates should be reviewed not lees frequently than
once a year.
12.       As the exhibit indicates, the report should show the amount of
expenditures up to the end of the reporting period, and the balance of
expenditures still to be made to complete the project on the basis of the
latest estimated costs. Cost estimates and expenditures in foreign ctirrney
should be shown separately from those in local currency, for each of the main
items comprising the project.
13.       In addition, a schedule of actual and estimated disbursements in the
form of Exhibit C should be submitted semi-annually. Estimates should be made
on a semi-annual basis for the rext two calendar years and on an annual basis
for the balance of the period.
Quarterlv Report on Management and Ooexations
14.       This  should be a narrative  report,  supplemented by graphs or
schedules if necessary. The subjects which should be included ares
(a) actual or prospective changes in key personnel in CEB's organizationl
(b) actual or prospective changes in CEB's organization;
(c) the development of revenue collections;
(d)  load growth and system development;
(e) arrangements for financing and constructing major system additions;
(f) the development of the program for training the staff of CEB; and
(g)  any significant problems or developments in CEB's general operations.



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Report for period ended
SCiEED=LE OP OBDES AND DELIVEEs oF MAIN ITVEIS OF iOQuiMENT
Date        Date       Name and
Description       of Bid        of         Address        Contract              Delivery Dates
of Item       Invitation    Order      of Supplier       Amount     Original    Revised        Actual
21                        31
1/    Schedule should be prepared at the start of the project with estimated data.  It should be
continuously revised when the contracts are finalized. All lots/packages included in a contract
should be shown individually.
2/    Show amount and currency of contract or estimated amount, and equivalent in U.S. dollars.
Amounts may be rounded to nearest US$10,000 equivalent.
Zi.
3/I   At Job Site unless indicated otherwise.                                                                      -Z



SRI LANKA
SECONP POWER DISTRIBUTIONt AND TRANSMISSION PROJT
Report for period ended _
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE. EXPENDITURES & COMMITMENTS STATEMENT
Cost Estimate                                 Disbursements
r1iosous                                                                        Balance of          Remahini Cost
Categooy      Origbn    Reised   RerAsions      Totad      Cunrent                 This       Total    Outstanding             to Complete
Edimate   Etadiome This Ouaflet  ReWsions    Estimate   Petious   Quarles Disbtusements Comuitments  Total        Project
(Col 2 + 3)  (Cd t 4)                         (Col 0 * 7               ico a 9)   (Cdol -10)
(1)       12)       (3)        14)          (5)         (6)        (7)      (8I)           (9)       (tio )
Foreign Costs (US$ Million)
0
Total lefgn cods
Local Costs (Rs Millions)
rz
toz



SRI LANA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Report for period ended
ACTUAL AND FORECAST DISBURSEMENTS SCHEDULE
Calendar Years                  1991         1992          1993        1994     1995       1996     1997
Semester                         11       I       II    I       II
Credit Anount
1. Actual and Revised Forecasts
a. Actual Disbursements 11
b. Forecast Disbursements                                (show amounts to nearest US$10,000)
(Revised at (Date))
c. Undisbursed Balance
2. Original Forecasts as at (date)
Estimated Disbursements
Original Forecast
*.1.
1/  Applications for withdrawal issued.                                                                           rt
0 J'



- 52 -
AUNEL.jA
SRI LANRA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSHISSION PROJECT
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
Performance Indicators
1991     1992     1993       1994       1995
Customers per Employee                  55       65        70        75         80
Number of New Connections           70,000   80,000   80,000    80,000    80,000
System Losses (2)                       16       15        14        13         12
Rate of Return on Assets (Z)           7.4      7.0       7.0       8.0        8.0
Accounts Receivable (Months)           3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0
Long Term Debt Service Coverage        1.7      1.5       1.8       2.1        2.5
Number of Staff Trained                800    1,000    1,000      1,000      1,000



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
................................................
CEB HISTORICAL INCOME STATEMENT. 1982-1990
....................... _...........................
(SL Rs million)
1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988     1989     1990
............................  ....... .  .....  -----. . .....   .......  .....  .......    .....
Energy Generation (GWh)               2066       2114       2261       2464       2653       2701       2799     2858    3150
System Loss (C)                       18.7       15.2       17.0       16.4       15.9       16.4       15.3    17.6    18.2
Energy SaLes (GWh)                    1679       1792       1877       2061       2232       2258       2370     2354     '378
SaLes Growth (X)                      11.7        6.7        4.7        9.8        8.3        1.2        5.0    -0.7       ;.S
Tariff Increase CO
Average Tariff (Rs/KWh)               0.77       0.84       0.78       1.36       1.48       1.47       1.70     1.66     2.20
Operating Revenue
..................
Electricity Sales                     1302       1514       1464       2807       3306       3319       4018    3918      5672
Fuel Surcharge                        1140       2507        566        114         17       1259        236       60       15
Other Operating Revenues                                     224        146        117        127        141      263      407
Interest Earnings                                                       169        366        364        229      143       90
...._... ...........  .....  .......  .. .....  _-....  .....   ......   .....
Total Operating Revenue               2442       4021       2254       3236       3806       5069       4624     4384    6184
Operating Expenses
Fuel Cost                              971       2311        489        111         17       1223        229       60       15
Operation & Naintenance                167        207        288        341        481        528        724      825      811
Turnover Tax                            51         46         20         88        116        137        128      119      171
Acduinistration                        110        255        187        172        166        351        345      508      414
Depreciation                           329        371        460        641        922        802       1038     1307     1528
...-       ----       ----       .....      -- -        ....      -- -     -- -     .....
Total Operating Expenses              1628       3190       1444       1353       1702       3041       2464    2819    2939
Operating Income                       814        831        810       1883       2104       2028       2160     1565  3244.6
Less:
Interest Charged Operations            95         108        321        409        515        813        979      640     1651
Expenditure Of Feasi. Studies                                  7         40                               45       18       21
_.....     .....  .  . .....     .....  .  . .....     .....  .   . .....  .....    ----- ........ ........  
Net Income Before Tax                  719        723        482       1434       1589       1215       1136      907     1573
Income Tax                            282         438         46        169       360
Net Income                             437        285        436       1265       1229       1215       1136      907     1573
Return On Net Fixed Assets CX)         8.0        5.4        7.3       10.6        8.!        8.7        7.9      5.1      9.0
o-'
0. 



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
..................................................
CEB HISTORICAL BALANCF SHEET, 1982-1990
............................................... _
(SL Rs miLlion)
1982       1983        1984       1985       1986        1987       1988      1989     1990
.....      .....   .  . .....     .....   .  .. .....    .....   .  .. .....  .....  . .. ..... .... ................ ...........
Assets
Fixed Assets
............
Gross Fixed Assets In Use             11006       12978       19722      27276      30901       35884      43220    49028    6202
Less Cum. Depreciation                 3310        3947        5009       6306       7248        8789      11367    13789    18282
.....      ......                 .....      .....   .   . .....    .....  . . .....   .......... ...............................
Net Fixed Assets                       7696        9032       14713      20970      23653       27095      31853    35239    43810
Construction In Progress               1033        1790        2462       1800       2593        4996       9534    15030    22899
Investment In Subsidiaries                8           8          13         83        194         219        295       324      335
Insurance Escrow Accoumt                                                              105         148        182       188      250
Current Assets
.............
Cash                                     159         -3         m         2464       3870        2518        1397      841     1520
Inventories                             776        1045        822         922       1001        1178       1651      2184     1863
Accounts Receivable                     1317       1545        1604       1169        1195       1093        1679     1498     1422                    1
Other Receivabtes                        576       1319         346        452        360        2622       3435      2580     1746                   U
.....      .....   .   .....      .....   .  . .....     .....   .  . .....   -----. . ..... ...............................
Total Current Assets                   2828        3906       3549        4987       6426        7411       8162      7103     6551
Total Assets                          11565       14736      20737       27840      32971       39869      50026    57884    73845
=32=       23=3=       3=__=      3=3=3      3=333       3=3=2      33=33    3=
Equity
Goverinent Equity                       969        1065        2498       7035       7251        7333       8037      8047     8111
Consumer Contribution                   753        1400        1521       1776        1980       2125       2285      3079     3559
Revaluation Surplus                    5067        5871        7352       8931       8250       10778      15641    18843    26419
Retained Earnings                      1999        2814       3687        4033       5262        6473       7624      8513    10086
.....      .....   .   .....      .....   .  . -----     .....   .  . ..... ....... ...............................
Total Equity                           8788       11150      15058       21775      22742       26709      33587    38482    48175
Long Term Debt                         1419        2104       4476        4504       8141       10471      13263    16005    20698
Other Liabilities                                                                                 302        745       876     1406
Current Maturities of LTD                120        155        344         405        396         364        373       612      941
Other Current Liabilities               1237       1327         859       1156        1692       2023       2058      1909     2624                    >
........ . .. .........     ....        ........   .....       .. ....    ...__....    ..... X
Total Current Liabilities              1357        1482        1203       1561       2088        2689       3176      3397     49'1e
Total Equity And Liabilities          11564       14736      20737       27840      32971       39869      50026    57884    73844                     VI
333=3      33=3        33=3         3=2       Mc=2=33               333       33333    333=                  0 *.
Current Ratio                           2.1         2.6         3.0        3.2        3.1         2.8        2.6       2.,      1.3
Long Term Debt                            15         17          24         18         27          29         29        30       31
/Equity                    85         83          76         82          73         71          71       70        69



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
..................................................
CEB HISTORICAL fUNDS FLOW STATENENT, 1982-1990
................................................................................ .
(SL Rs million)
1982       1983       1984       1985        1986       1987       1988      1989     1990
~~~~.......  .....  ----      .....      ....... .....          .....    .... ..  ..........
Sources
Net Income                              437        285         436       1265       1229        1215       1175      90T      1573
Interest                                 95        108         321        409        515        813         979      640     1651
Depreciation                            329        371         660        641        922         802       1038     1307      1528
.....            .....  .   . .....    .....   .  . .....     .....    ..... .. ..... ...............
Internal Cash Generation                861        764        1217       2315       2666       2830        3192     2854     4752
Govermmnt Equity                        238         95        1434       4537        216          82        704       10       64
Consumer Contribution                   285        647         121        255        204         145        159      795      #80
Loan                                    161       1371        2948        433       4033        2694       3165     3354     5635
~~. .....  .....   ----       .....      .....      .....       .. ...    .....    .....
Total Sources                          1545       2877        5720       7540       7119        5751       7220     7013    10931
Applications
............
Construction Program                    982       1660        5133       4659       S359        4119       S470     6988     9401
Investment In St6sidiaries                                                 70        111         25          76       29       10
Debt Service:
Interest                                 95        108        321         409        515        511         536      509     1121
Debt Repayment                           86        120         155        344        405         396        364      373      612
Deposit To Escrow Account                                                            105          45         58       25       62
Change In Res rve                                                         917
Increase In Working Capftal
...........................
Cash Increase                            98       -16'         780       1667       1426       -1Z52      -1121     -556      679
Other Than Cash Increase                284       1151        -669       -526       -802       2006        1837     -354     -954
Total Applications                     1545       2877        5720       7540       7119       5750        7220     7014    10931
LTD Service Coverage                    4.8        3.4        2.6         3.1        2.9        2.3         2.4      2.8      2.1
Self-financing Ratio SX)                 30                     12                    17         29          26       40       34
0



SRI LANKA
SECOND POUER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
..................................................
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
........................
FORECAST INCOOE STATEMENT. 1990-2000
....................................
(SL Rs miLLion)
1990     1991     1992      1993     '994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
.. ...   -  --    .._...    .....    ..  .    ---      ---       ---      ....     ..  .     ---
Energy G.neration(UA)              3150     3284     3472      3700     3942     4209     4546      4910     5303     s727      6185
System Loss(X)                     18.2     16.0     15.0      14.0     13.0     12.0      12.0     12.0     12.0     12.0      12.0
Energy Sales(GWh)                  2578     2758     2952      3182     3430     3704     4001      4321     4666     5040      5443
Sates GrowthCZ)                     9.6      7.0      7.0       7.8      7.8      8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0      8.0       8.0
Tariff IncreaseCX)                                   25.0      15.0     12.0      3.5                                  7.0       8.0
Average Tariff(Rs/KUh)             2.20     2.40     3.00      3.45     3.86     4.00      4.00     4.00     4.00     4.28      4.62
Operating Revenue
..................
Etectricity Sales                  5672     6620     8855    10977    13253    14815    16G00    17280    18662    21566    25154
Fuel Surcharge                       15      345
Other Operating Revenues            407      219       230      241      254      266       280      293      308      324       340
Interest Earnings                    90      148       86        62      179      324      497       674      721      616       410
_ ~~~~. ..... ... ..  . ----*-- *----  *-- ...              ..        ..       ..
Totat Operating Revenue            6184     7333     9170    11280    13686    15405    16776    18247    19691    22506    25904
Operating Expenses
.......... ............. .
Fuel Cost                            15      335      103       238      510      988     1487      1830     2476     3341      4785
Operation & Xaintenance             811     1041      1364     1664     1980     2187      2362     2523     2748     3018      3322
Turnover Tax                        171      209      269       336      413      474      525       573      634      747       898
Administration                      414      508       559      615      676      744       818      900      990      1089     1198
Depreciation                       1528     1908     2501      3051     3403     3759     4060      4336     4724     518      5710
.... . _....     ........    ----.  ---  ---  -----    .......    ........    ....  .... ---  -----.
Total Operating Expenses           2938     4001     4796      5905     6981     8152     9252    10162    11572    1335    15914
Operating Incame                   3246     3332     4374      5375     6705     7253      7524     8085     8119     9122      9991
Less:
Interest Charged Operations        1651     2018     2644     2699      2680     2676     2802     3136      3702     4512     5538
Expenditure Of Feasi. Studies        21       40       40        40       40       40       40        40       40       40        40
. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   - -     .. .     -- -     -- -      -- -     .. .     -----._   ....     ..  .
Net Incom  Before Tax              1573     1274      1690     2636     3985     4537     4682      4910     4377     4571      4412
Income Tax
Net Incae                          1573     1274     1690      2636     3985     4537     4682      4910     4377     4571      412                  I
_ =    =                  5~un u~                              uzu=    ainx
gz
Return On Met Fixed Assets(M)      8.96     7.36     7.05      6.99     7.99     8.01     7.92      8.23     7.74     8.03      8.08                 '
0



SRI LANKA
SECOND POUER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CEYLON ELECTRICITY B^ARD
FORECAST BALANCE SHEET, 1990-2300
tSL Rs million)
Assets                           1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets In Use       62092   76674  105253  116666  130W9   142571  152719  162618  150913  196387  218912
Less Cum. Depreciation          18282   22292   26510   31152   36424   42004   47492   53443   59984   67211   75206
Net Fixed Assets                43810   54382   78743   85515   94385  100567  105227  109175  120930  129176  143706
Construction In Progress        22899   23472    7396    7504    4823    6094    9746   17980   21755   33237   40799
Investment In Subsidiarfes        335     345      355      365      375     385      395      405      415      425     435
Insurance Escrow Accouat          250     327      432      549      679     822      975    1137    1318    1515    1734
Current Assets
Cash                             1521    1443      273      958    2620    3860    6083    7392    7024    5302    2901
Inventories                      1863    1917    2631    2917    3270    3564    3818    4065    4523    4910    5473
Accounts Receivable              1422    1741    2214    2744    3313    3704    4000    4320    4b66    5391    6289
Other Receivables                1746    1921    2113    2324    2556    2812    3093    3402    3743    4117    4529
.----   -----    -----    -----    -----    -----   .....    -----    -----    -----   _-_--
Totat Current Assets             6551      022    7230    8943    11760   13940   16994   19180   19955   19720   19191
t
Total Assets                    73846   8554    94156  102875  112022  121805  133336  147878  164372  1840    205864
=    = 5=   __ 5= =3  s=3=3=3=
Equity
Govert_mnt Equity                81l      8543    993    9673    9851    961         9651    9851    9651    9851    9m51
Conrser Contribution             3559    4139    435    S611    6473    7425    8457    9579   10796   12118   13553
Revatuation Smplus              26419   31458   35645   40370   45500   50220   53639   57217   60929   65040   69432
Retained Earnings               10086   11361   13051    15687   19672   24209   28891   3381    38178   42749   47161
__ _.  .....   . ......   .....    -----   .....    -----    ----     ----    .....  _ --________-
Total Equity                    48176   55500   6292    71340   81497   91704  1008M   110447  119753  129758  139997
Long Term Debt                  20696   23128   24855   24132   23913   24375   26295   30907   37422   46358   57490
Current Liabilities:
Current Nhturities of LID         941    1840    1967    1992    1816    1873    208    2026    2340    2               2712mz
Deferred Interst                 1406    2245    2150    2106    1226          0        0        0        0       o        0                    'A
other Current Liabilities        2624    2834    3061    3305    3570    3156    4164    449r   4u5            5245    566z
Total Current Lirbilities        4972    6919    7177    7403    6612    5728    6202    653           7197    7m8        77                   X
____-   ----     ----     ----     ----     -----   -- -     -- -     ----- _-_-__-_ --.  ..... 
Total Equity And Liabilities    73845   85547   94156  102875  112022  12180   133335  147877  164372  184073  205864                        o
mm_          M :ac ==: r,om    Ema
turent Ratio                      1.3      1.0     1.0      1.2      1.8     2.4      2.7      2.9      2.8     2.5      2.3
Long Term Debt                     31      31       29       27       24      22       22       23      25       27       30
/Equity              69       69      71       73       76       78      78       77       75       73       70



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRUBITION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
.. ... . .... ................ ...  ...   ....
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS, 1990-2000
.   ............................... ...... ........... ...........
(SL Rs million)
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994    1995    1996       1997     1998    1999      2000
..... .....         .     . -----   ..... .  . ----   .... .   ----     ----     ----     -----..... ........  ......
Sources
Net Income Before Interest        3225    3292      4334     5335     6665     7213     7484    8045      8079    9082      9951
Depreciation                      1528     1908     2501     3051     3403     3759    4060    4336    4724        5188     5710
......   .....  .......   ..... .......   .....  ......    .......   .......    ---_--
Internal Cash Generation          4752     5200    6836    8387    10067   10972    11545    12381    12803    14270    15661
Govervment Equity                   64      432      850      280      178        0        0        0        0        0        0
Consumer Contribution              480      580      696      775      863      951     1033     1121     1217    1322      1435
Loan                              5635     4270     2894     2069     1597    2335    3958    6638        8855    11648    13844
Total Sources                    10931    10482    11276    11511    12705    14258   16535   20140    22875    27240    30940
Appti -ations
Construction Program              9401     8014     6600     5206    4461      6493    8952    12941    16541    20805    23410
Investment In SubsidIaries          10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10
Debt Service:
Interest                          1121     1179     2739     2743     3559    3902    2802    3136        3702    4512      5538
Amortization                       612      941     1840     1967     1992    1816    1873       2038    2026    2340       2712
Deposit To Escrow Account           62       77      105      117      131      143      153      163      161      196      219
Increase In Working Capital
...........       . ....
Cash Increase                      680      -78    -11N)      686     1662    1240    2223       1309     -369   -1722    -2401
Other Than Cash Increase          -954      338     1152      782      891      654      523      544      783     1099     1452
Total Applications               10931    10482    11276    11511    12705   14258   16535   20140    22875   27240    30940
-    -  -   urn   -__ ---
LTD Service Coverage              2.10     1.76     1.52     1.80     2.16     2.U      2.47     2.39    2.24    2.08       1.90
Self-financing Ratio ()             34       34       33       40       41       49       44       40       39       38       35
o0.



- 5                         ANNX 5.3
Pogo I of 2
SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the Financial ProJectigons
Income Statement
1. Energy Sales               s based on the load forecast prepared by CEB
reflecting an an average annual growth rate of
7.8Z during the forecast period of 1991-2000.
2. Average Tariff               a average tariff has been assumed to increase to
enable CEB to achieve a rate of return on the
revalued average net fixed assets in use of 71 in
1992 and 1993 and 8S in 1994 and thereafter.
Fuel adjustment charge is assumed to be
discontinued from 1992 onwards following tariff
increases.
3. Other Operating Revenues : assumed to increase at 51 p.a.
4. Operating and              : forecast at 1.51 of average gross fixed assets
Maintenance Costs          in use.
5. Fuel Cost                  : based on the thermal generation requirements
derived from energy balance projections as per
weighted average hydrological condition anl the
1991 fuel costs per unit of thermal power
escalated by Bank's projections of local
inflation.
6. Administration Costs       : assumed to increase by 10 p.a.
7. Depreciation               : equal to 2.75X of average gross fixed assets in
use.
8. Interest                   : as per CEB's practice, interest on long term
loans is fully charged against operating income
and interest during ccnstruction is not
capitalized.
9. Income Tax                 : at 62.51 of taxable income defined as operating
income before depreciation less interest charges,
depreciation allowance and tax losses carried
forward from the previous year; annual
depreciation allowance is 12.51 for assets
commissioned during 1981-1986 and 33.31 for those
commissioned in 1987 and afterwards.



- 60 -                      ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 2
Balanice Sheet
10. Fixed Assets               i revalued at the end of each fiscal year as per
the Bank's projection of local inflation rato.
11. Inventories                a projected at a level equal to 2.52 of gross fixed
assets in use.
12. Accounts Receivable        a equal to three months of sales rovenue.
13. Other Receivables          : assumed to increase by 102 p.a.
14. Current Liabilities        s including current maturities of long term debt,
deferred paymont of interest during construction
(IDC), and advances to suppliers and contractors.
According to the *eilstin8 subsidiary agreemonts,
CEB has the optiot. to defer IDC payment until
first installment of principal falls due.
Advances to suppliers and contractors are assumed
to increase by 82 p.a. as per historical trend.
Funds Flow Statement
15. Investment                 t capital expenditures have been escalated at the
following rates (percent).
DM            193    1994    l      1996-200
Foreign Cost         3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4   3.4  p.a.
Local Cost          11.5    7.7    6.0    6.0    5.0   3.4  p.a.
16. Loan Terms                   F Foreign costs of the investment program are
assumed to be financed by borrowings. For loans
yet to be secured, maturity of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace period at an interest
rate of 102 p.a. have been assumed.
17. Annual Provision to        s equal to 0.12 of gross fixed assets in use.
Insurance Reserve



- 61 -                       ARMI S
s       E        s a~si
SECOND POllR DISTRIBUTION AnD TRANSISSION PROJECT
CEYLON ELECTnICITY BOARD TARIFF
(With effect from April 1, 1990)
Energy Charge     Demand Charge    Fixed Charge
Tariff Cat erorv                 R_/s R. lk..S             h        Rg/MDoth
DOMESTIC
0 to  10 kWh                0.55                                  5
11 to  50 kWh                1.05                                 10
51 to 100 kWh                2.00                                 10
101 to 450 kWh                3.00                                 10
;  450 kWh                 4.00                                10
RELIGIOUS
0 to 150 kWh                0.80
>  150 kWh                2.95
INDUSTRIAL
Small                         2.35                            c10 kVA 25
>10 kVA 120
M4edium                        2.20              130              240
Large                          2.15              115              240
Small TD Peak                  4.90
Off-Peak                1.75
Medium TD Peak                 4.95               60              240
Off-Peak               2.10
Large  TD Peak                 4.70               55              240
Off-Peak               2.00
GENERAL PURPOSE
Small                         3.10                            <10 kVA  25
--10 kVA 120
Medium                         3.05              150              240
Large                          2.95              140              240
HOTEL
Small                          3.10                           <10 kVA  25
>10 kVA 120
Medium                         3.05              150              240
Large                          2.95              140              240
Medium TD Peak                 5.00               60              240
Off-Peak               2.15
Large  TD Peak                 4.75               55              240
Off-Peak               2.10
LOCAL AUTHORITIES
LI
0 to  10 kWh               0.40                36
11 to  50 kWh               0.80
51 to 100 kWh                1.45
> 100 kWh                1.90
L2
O to  10 kWh               0.35                25
11 to  50 kWh               0.75
>  50 kWh                1.45
STREET LIGHTING                   2.80



SRI LANKA
SECOND POlER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
Electricity Sales Forecast 1991-2000
(Gwh)
Average
Tariff Category                1990    1°91      1992    1993    1994       1995      1996      1997     1998      1999    20w  GrawthC)
Residential                     491      557      629     730      842       970      1114     1222      1341      1471    1612       12.6
Caomercial                      410      447      487      545     609       681       761      822       889       961    1038        9.7
Industry                        894     947    1003    1081    1166         1260      1361     1446      1537      1632    1734        6.8
Hotels                           90       99      109      120     132       145       159      175       193       212      233      10.0
LECO                            360      389      420     453      490       529       571      617       666       720      777       8.0
Licensees                       315      301      282     228      164        90         0        0         0         0       0
Street Lighting                  17       19       21       24      26        30        33       36        4t        43       47       10.7
Total                          2577    2758    2951    3181    3429         3704      4000     4320      4666      5039    5442        7.8
Sector (retails)
Residential                     764      836     914      1006    1108      1222      1348     1475      1614      1765    1930        9.7
Commercial                      632      680      733     797      867       945      1029     1116      1209      1311    1420        8.4
InCdustry                      1062    1121    1183    1261    1345         1436      1533     1632      1737      1848    1967        6.4
Street Lighting                  23       25       27       29      32        35        39       42        46        50      54        9.0
Total                          2481    2663    2856    3094    3352         3638      3948     426       4605      4974     31         8.0
Category-wise Shares
(X)
Residential                    19.1    20.2    21.3    22.9    24.5         26.2      27.8     28.3      28.7      29.2    29.6
Co mercial                     15.9    16.2    16.5    17.1    17.8         18.4      19.0     19.0      19.1      19.1    19.1
Industry                       34.7    34.3    34.0    34.0    34.0         34.0     34.0      33.5      32.9     32.4    31.9
Hotels                          3.5      3.6      3.7      3.8     3.8       3.9      4.0       4.1       4.1       4.2     4.3
LECO                           14.0    14.1    14.2    14.3    14.3         14.3      14.3     14.3      14.3      14.3    14.3
Licensees                      12.2    10.9      9.6       7.2     4.8       2.4      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0
Street Lighting                 0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7     0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8       0.9     0.9
Total                         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Sector Shares
(X)
ResiderttiaL                   30.8    31.4    32.0    32.5    33.0         33.6     34.1      34.6      35.0      35.5    35.9
Cammercial                     25.5    25.6    25.6    25.8    25.9         26.0     26.1      26.2      26.3      26.4    26.4
Industry                       42.8    42.1    41.4    40.8    40.1        39.5      38.8      38.3      37.7     37.2    36.6
St eet Lightirg                 0.9      0.9     0.9       1.0     1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0     1.0
. ...... .. . ..9  .... .   .. ..... . . . .    .    .    .      . ......0 .......  .......  .......  .......  ------
Total                         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Peak De.mnd(NM)                 640      682     721      768      818       858      910       966      1044      1127    1217
Load Fctor (S)                   56       55      55       55       55        56       ST                                    5S



ANNEX 6.2
- 63 -                       Page   of 3
SRI LANA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Method
1.        As described in Chapter V, the proposed project forms an integral part
of CEB's least cost expansion plan and, therefore, cost-benefit analysis needs
to be carried out of the whole plan rather than of the project in isolation.
CEB's investment program for the period 1991-2000 has, therefore, been analyzed.
Incremental capital costs, operating and maintenance costs, and benefJt streams
(all in terms of 1991 prices) are shown in Table 1. Assumption underlying these
figures are detailed below.
Capital Costs
2.        Anticipated capital expenditures on generation (from the WASP-III
generation planning model), transmission and distribution at financial prices are
converted to economic prices by: (i) expressing the import content at c.i.f.
prices; and (ii) applying the standard conversion factor of 0.85 to local costs.
Ogerating and Maintenance (O&M)
3.        Incremental operating and maintenance costs are derived from CEBs.
financial projections where O&M costs are projected to amount to the following
percentages of gross fixed assets in use:
Generation         -       0.8Z
Transmission       -       2.02
Distribution       -       3.0S
Incremental O&M costs are adjusted using the standard conversion factor of 0.85.
Euel Costs
4.        Fuel costs are based on the thermal generation requirements derived
from energy balance projections and the Bank's February 1990 crude oil price
projections.
Economic Benefits
5.        Economic benefits associated with incremental electricity supply to
consumers are calculated using (i) average tariff; and (ii) consumers' willingness
to pay as proxies of benefits.
Averane Tariff
6.        .'>rage tariff is assumed to increase by an Average rate of 10X p.a.
in real terms during 1992-94 to enable CEB to meet its financial objective. Fuel
adjustment charge is assumed to be discontinued from 1992 onwards.



- 64 -                       ANNEX 6.2
Page 2 of 3
Willinaness to Pay (WTP)
7.        Domestic Electricity Consumption.  About 101 of present total domestic
electricity use (corresponding to specific consumption upto 10 kWh/month) can be
considered minimum lighting requirements. In the absence of electricity supply,
households would use kerosene lamps. This portion is valued at the economic cost
of Rs. 7.82 per kWh equivalent. The remainder of consumption is assumed to be
valued at a price declining to Rs 2.23 per kWh (the 1992 average domestic tariff
revenue) at the margin. The cost of kerosene lighting is arrived at as follows,
using a lamp with a light output of 60 W equivalent, and a lifetime of 5 years,
used for 1,460 hours per year:
Capital Cost                          : Re 800.00
Annuitized Charge                     : Rs 2.41/kWh
(10Z opportunity cost of capital)
Fuel Cost:
0.05 1/hour at Rs 5.62/litre          : 4.68/kWh
Other Cost                            : Rs 0.73/kWh
Total Cost                            : Rs 7.82/kWh
8.        Non-Domestic  Electricity  Consumption.    WITPs  for  commercial  and
industrial consumers and street lighting are assumed to be approximated by the
1992 respective average tariffs.
9.        Weighted Average WTP.    The weighted  average WTP  for a kWh of
incremental electricity supply is derived as follows using 1992 consumption mix:
Catogorv                   2 of Consumption         WTP (RsIkWh)
Domestic                          32                    5.31
Commercial                        22                    3.72
Industry                          41                    3.16
Hotel                              4                    3.11
Street Lighting                    1                    3.38
Total Weighted                   100                    3Z
Results of Analysis
10.       The results of the economic cost/benefit analysis together with thosa
of the sensitivi'y tests against (i) an IOZ increase in capital costs and (ii)
lower sales growth of 6S p.a. are summarized in Table 2.



- 65 -                     ANNEX 6.2
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (BASE CASE)
(SLRS Million)
Capital    Operating &
Year     CoSt       Maintenance    Fuel Cost    Benefit$    Net Benefits
1991      6,320          116           167            599        -6,004
1992      4,943          308            53          1,039        -4,265
1993      3,665          470           114          1,822        -2,427
1994      2,979          622           226          2,716        -1,111
1995      4,152          694           409          3,591        -1,664
1996      5,475          760           648          4.536        -2,346
1997      7,203          810           795          5,557        -3,251
1998      8,032          894         1,148          6,660        -3,415
1999      7,033          998         1,424          7,850        -1,605
2000      3,770        1,112         2,067          9,136         2,187
2001                   1,119         2,724         10,525         6,681
2002                   1,119         2,724         10,525         6,681
2003                   1,119         2,724         10,525         6,681
2004                   1,119         2,490          9,907         6,298
2005                   1,119         2,490          9,907         6,298
2006                   1,119         2,490          9,907         6,298
2007                   1,119         2,490          9,907         6,298
2008                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
2009                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
2010                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
2011                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
2012                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
2013                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
2014                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
2015                   1,119         2,256          9,290         5,914
Rate of Return                             10.7Z
Table 2: RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND SENSITIVITY TESTS
Usina Averase Tariff as Benefit PrOXV                               ERR (X)
Base Case                                                       10.7
Sales Growth 62 p.a.                                             7.2
Usint WTP as Benefit Proxy
Base Case                                                       15.7
Sales Growth 62 p.a.                                            11.3
Capital Cost +102                                               13.9



- 66 -                     ANNEX 7.1
SRTLN
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Propiect Fila
1.   CEB-Long Run Generation Expansion Plan 1991-2005, September 1990.
2.   CEB-Long Run Transmission Development Development Plan 1990-2000,
December 1990.
3.   CEB-Cost/Benefit Analysis of the Victoria-Anuradhapura 220-kV line,
February 1991.
4.   CEB-Cost/Benefit Analysis of the Phase II Takeover Program, May 1990.
5.   CEB-Detailed Cost Estimates for the Phase II Takeover Programs
April 1990.
6.   Calculation of Economic Rate of Return (diskette)
7.  Terms of Reference for Consultants for the 220-kV transmission works,
the upgrading of CEB's management information system, and the
preparation of the Upper Kotmale Hydropower Prrject.



MAP SECTION



SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION ANDET
TRANSMISSION PROJECT
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
PROJECT-
UNDER CON      MO BE    PROJECT-
STRUCTION: AUGMENTED:  NEW    E)ISnlNG:
*                               *    HYDRO POWER STA;nONS
A    T1ERMAL POWER STATIONS
*           E3             U1   *    GlaD SUSSTA:ONS
- - - ~~~~~~~~~132 kV LINES!  N
-          _    220 kV LINES
DSTRICT BOUNDARIES                               ANURADI
t-            C      10    20    20        wV            01V/TA              J             <       >      ;      +         L         7h.hi40
KLOMETER/
-          S              INS ET                                          u                                 r
-'i-, mKR DSL                            00 ,
00[ANGOD EXMCAA NDEN9
ltsmo;>im L-mpttsedLFllmWmidfn'INmr!'h PM                                             D z-_ RANAL  
KOTLC;ODA ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~                    >--Z            0      UAALW
D            ENRYAYAY
CKLLLB
120 kV CONSTR9CrEO
-I                         I VUPPIE
cw_leroUerdncidacd_#'otpr en=/_ofmWoM                  |  YA
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rn8'LenYeoleaCF   hdomSsm   de\ *          __         *      



e;                           80°      SEE l.N'SET FOR OETA;L 
z
JAffNA
C 20     O                                            C NORTHERN  SR LAK
~9°                                                                                           .w/ .. SRI LAN9KA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION
AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
MILES 1C   20   30    ~           g            - ~',  (LOCAL AUTHORITY DISTRIBUTION
.    I,   20   3                              /          r 
lO 10  203  40 SO       -            
KILOMETERS                              NO RTH                                               LECO Opertion Areo
_        /          nTrineonnolee           Projed ~Lorl Authoril
\   A-urn1h.pur-s    . ._.    .  (  .                              Maximum Demand
\   0                           c_    -          [    t   less tha,n 250 kVA
Maximum Demand
250 to 500 kVA
_ -axmum Demand
above 500 kVA
NIORTH  w J-  
WESTERIN                       |         - 
CE NTRAL    EASTERN
£"    X    S ow                y  u v A 
70       COLOMBO                       'odsIIo                                                                           7
SABARAGAMUWA?
,              j~~~'A FS, FR                       /                              K
NationaI Copitdl
INDIA                                                                                         0    Selected dties
Port.
SGUCjr tTHER3N                9                                zvers
Gollo 0                                                                  nternotionol r iport
SRI                    J                                                          - --  Province boundaries
LANKA
81e                                    e2'



