Docuenut of
T"he World Bank
FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
A,.,,.,ut, ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ qw No. '4i-RTru:(N)Rp0b  P-5546-CE
llu., i.    ,X'3u<X2'~ ,' ,; h' 1E
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 37.5 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
JUNE 28, 1991
Thi documen has a rericted distfbution and may be usd by recipients oly in the perfomance of
their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 22, 1991)
Currency Unit      Sri Lankan Rupee (SLRes)
US$1.0             SLRs .1.0
SLRs 1.0           US$0.024
MEASURES AID EQUIVALENTS
1 kilovolt (kV)                      m  1,000 volts
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)              =  1 million volt-amperes
a 1,000 kilovolt-amperes
1 megavolt-ampere reactive (MVAR)   m  1 million volt-amperes reactive
= 1,000 kilovolt-amperes reactive
1 kilowatt (kW)                      -  1,000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)                         1 million watts
-  1,000 kilowatts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                -  1,000 watt hours
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                -  1 million kilowatt hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
AMP     -   Accelerated Mahaveli Program
CEA         Central Environmental Agency
CEB     -   Ceylon Electricity Board
CER     -   Country Economic Memorandum
COW     -   Committee of the Whole
CTB     -   Ceylon Transport Board
ERC     -   Economic Restructuring Credit
FIAS        Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FSP         F Food Stamps Program
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
GOSL        Government of Sri Lanka
IMF     8   International Monetary Fund
JSP     -   Jana Saviya Program
LECO    -   Lanka Electricity Company (Private) Limited
NGO         Non-Government Organization
PE          Public Enterprise
PFP     X   Policy Framework Paper
PMEAC   -   Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit
PME         Public Manufacturing Enterprise
SAP     -   Structural Adjustment Facility
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LN
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION TROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary:                Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB)
Amount:                     SDR 37.5 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlendina Term.:            The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) would onlend the
proceeds of the credit to CEB at an interest rate
of 12.51 per annum, repayable over 20 years,
includfrg a five-year grace period.   GOSL would
baar the foreign ex tange risk.
Financina Plan:            Local         Foreisn        Total
…    ----- (US$ Million) --------
IDA                 7.5            42.5         50.0
CEB                29.0              -          29.0
36.5           42.5          79.0
Economic Rate of Return:   About 162
Staff Anpraisal Regort:    Report No. 9525-CE
MapM:                       IBRD 22860 and 22861
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT
OF TEE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATiON
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SRI LANKA
FOR A SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to Sri Lanka for SDR 37.5 mllion (US$50.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity is submitted for approval.   The
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) would onlend the proceeds of the credit to the
Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) at an interest rate of 12.5Z per annum,
repayable over 20 years, including a five-year grace period. GOSL would bear
the forelgn exchange risk. The proposed credit would help to finance a power
distribution and transmission project.
PART I
COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.        This Chapter takes into account the third-year Policy Framework Paper
(PEP) for 1990-1993 reviewed by the Committee of the Whole (COW) on October 16,
1990, the fourth-year PEP for 1991-1994 tentatively scheduled to be considered
by the COW in September 1991, and the Country Economic Memorandum entitled:
'Sri Lanka:   Sustaining the Adjustment Process', dated September 26, 1990
(Report No. 8951-CE).
A. Background
2.        Following nearly three decades of relatively poor growth performance
after Sri Lanka's Independence in 1948, a major reversal in policies took place
in 1977, when the Government decided to change the economic philosophy that had
dominated decision-making for decades by limiting state interventions in the
economy, increasing the private sector's role and, more generally, increasing
the role of market forces in resource allocation. Deregulation affected all
sectors of the economy including pricing and investment.  The new policies
contributed to a substantial improvement in economic growth which, however,
could not be sustained, as explained below.
3.        Since the mid-19809, slow growth, macroeconomic imbalances and high
unemployment have re-emerged as serious problems. There are three reasons for
this deterioration of economic performance: (i) the expansionary macroeconomic
policies pursued since 1977 led to unsustainably large deficits in the external
and internal accounts; (ii) while the Government extensively liberalized trade,
financial markets and prices, it did not reduce the public sector's size or
address the root causes of its inefficiency; and (iii) the outbreak of the
ethnic conflict in the North and East in 1983, compounded by the resurgence of
terrorism in the South after the Peace Accord was signed with India in July
1987, put heavy pressures on the budget, caused losses in output, and reduced
foreign investment and tourism.



- 2 -
B. Recent Economic Developments
4.        Despite the 1977 liberalization, the Government's role in the economy
increased.   The availability of external finance both from donors and
commercial sources led the Government to expand its investment program.
Current expenditures increased both as a result of increased public sector
employment and of public enterprises' need for budgetary support after they
were exposed to market forces and international competition without being given
autonomy to make decisions on pricing, procurement and recruitment. As total
Government expenditures soared, so did fiscal deficits despite Sri Lanka's
relatively high revenue to GDP ratio, which gradually increased from a histor-
ical 16-17X of GDP to slightly over 20Z of GDP in the mid-1980s. The fiscal
deficit during 1978-87 averaged 14X of GDP, about half of which was financed
by grants and concessional loans and the other half by domestic borrowing.
5.        The Government-led expansion in aggregate demand was the principal
factor underlying the acceleration in inflation in the first half of the 1980s.
Because of an insufficiently flexible exchange rate, inflation led to a gradual
appreciation of the real exchange rate.   This appreciation impeded more
vigorous development and diversification of the export sector and contributed
to a current account deficit which averaged 162 of GDP in 1980-82, with a
gradual decline to around 1O0 of GDP thereafter. As part of this deficit was
financed through commercial borrowing until 1984, debt service ratios increased
from 142 of exports of goods and services in 1978 to 292 in 1988. Commercial
debt reached one-third of the country's medium and long-term debt by the mid-
19809, although by the end of 1988 it had declined to 202. The good growth
performance after liberalization can be explained by a one-time efficiency gain
following elimination of many of the market distortions prevailing before 1977,
complemented  by  an  expansionary  fiscal  policy.    However,  this  growth
performance could not be sustained, largely because of the concentration and
inefficient use of a significant share of the country's economic resources in
the public sector.
6.        The Economic Impact of Civil Disturbances.  Since the early 1980s,
civil disturbances intruded as a major impediment to Sri Lanka's economic
development.  They began as an ethnic conflict in the Northern and Eastern
districts in 1983 and escalated gradually until the conflict reached major
proportions in early 1987.  The ethnic conflict subsided for a few months
following the India-Sri Lanka Peace Accord of July 1987. By 1988, however, it
had again reached serious proportions, and the Reconstruction Program for the
Northern and Eastern provinces, for which IDA held a Special Aid Group Meeting
in December 1987 and mobilized substantial support (US$500 million), could not
be  implemented at  the pace envisaged originally.   At the  same time,
nationalistic groups opposed to the terms of the 1987 Peace Accord mounted an
intensive anti-Government campaign, which escalated to the point of virtually
paralyzing the country in mie.1989.
7.        Consequently, defense expenditures rose from about 1t of GDP in the
first half of the 1980s to 4-5S of GDP in 1987-89. Civil disturbances have not
only put heavy pressures on the budget but also been an important reason for
the decline in the GDP growth rate to about 2Z during 1987-89.   Paddy
production in the Northern and Eastern provinces declined by about one-third,
fishing by half, and tourism inflows to the island were reduced by two-thirds.



- 3 -
8.        The Government should have addressed the economic problems which
emerged in the mid-1980. more forcefully, but a number of factors enabled it
to postpone tough policy decisions. First, the Government was able to tap
concessional as well as commercial financing sources to offset large budgetary
deficits.   Second,  the boom in tea prices and the  inflow of workers'
remittances eased the pressure on the balance of payments. By 1986, however,
it was clear that Sri Lanka could no longer sustain its high levels of fiscal
and external current account deficits in the face of dwindling reserves. In
November 1986 the Government articulated a three-year stabilization program
which, in turn, led to the first-sear PFP (1988-1990). While adoption of this
first-year PFP was seen as a major breakthrough at that time, its
implementation was disappointing. The sudden escalation of civil violence in
the South disrupted economic activity, while relaxed public sector wage and
credit policies in the pre-election period aggravated demand pressures.
9.        The new Government formed in early 1989 found itself on the verge of
a balance of payments crisis, accelerating inflation, and a large and widening
fiscal deficit. With IDA and IMF support it formulated a new 1989-92 program,
reflected in the second-year PFP. The second-year PFP program focussed on the
needs to restore short-term economic stability and resume the structural
adjustment effort initiated under the first-year PFP. The new program aimed
to increase growth to 3-42 by 1990-92, reduce inflation to 7? by 1992, contain
the fiscal deficit to 82 of GDP by 1992, and curb the external current account
deficit to 6S of GDP by 1992. On the structural reform front, the second-year
PPP revived tne agenda contained in the first-year PFP which was to reduce the
size of the public sector while increasing the private sector's efficiency and
role, including commercialization and selective privatization of public
enterprises.   The second-year PFP also renewed the emphasis on poverty
alleviation and the restructuring and possible privatization of the state-owned
tea and rubber estates and the public bus company.   Many of the reforms
identified under the second-year PIP have been translated into specific action
programs under an Economic Restructuring Credit (ERC) approved by IDA's Board
in May 1990. Their macroeconomic impact is described below.
10.       Since the second-year PIP program's introduction in mid-1989, overall
economic management and performance has strengthened. The improvement in the
security situation during the first half of :990, especially in the South,
coupled with generally sound macroeconomic policies and good weather,
contributed to an increase in the GDP growth rate from 2.3? in 1989 to 6.2Z in
1990. Given the existing relatively high revenue effort at 202 of GDP, the
Government has emphasized reduction in expenditures in its effort to reduce the
fiscal gap.   This was also consistent with the Government's objective of
gradually reducing the level of total public expenditure relative to GDP. For
example, it has curtailed the Jana Saviya Program (JSP), a poorly-targeted and
potentially expensive national poverty program, eliminated subsidies on wheat,
rice and fertilizers, and implemented substantial across-the-board reductions
in non-wage, non-interest expenditures.   Such policy actions and tightened
expenditure controls kept the overall deficit at 10X of GDP in 1990, within the
PEP target. The Government also devalued the rupee, from Rs 35/US$ in July
1989 to Rs 40/US$ in September 1989, and tightened monetary and credit policies
in 1989. Toward the end of 1990, however, monetary policy began to ease.
11.       The external sector also showed improvement, because of high world
prices for tea and increased non-traditional exports.  The current account
deficit fell to about 52 of GDP in 1990, substantially below PIP targets, while
gross official reserves increased from the equivalent of 3 weeks' imports in



- 4 -
August 1989 to 1.9 months in March 1991. The Gulf crisis was expected to have
a serious impa.ot in 1990 through a higher oil import bill, reduced tea export
earnaings to Kuwaitllraq, and a fall in private remittances. While the oil
price hike cost about US$60 million and Government had to pay US$15 million to
evacuate Sri Lanka workers, overall costs were smaller tban envisaged. The
price and volume of tea exports lncreased, and private remittances did not
suffer because many Gulf area workers returned to Sri Lanka with their savings.
As a result, net private transfers increased, by 111 (in US$ terms). However,
remittances from the liddle East are expected co be low from 1991 onvard unless
these workers return to the Gulf in a relatively short time. Moreover, tea
export prices have again weakened.
Sri Lankat Key Indicators, 1988-90
am          Iwso        199
w  Growth rote                        2.7         2.L         .2
Inflation rate (vergo) /             14.0        11.6        21.5
Debt ervic. ratio f                  29.3        24.8        16.2
Gros Imvestment/Op                   22.8        21.         22.6
National sevings/OP                  14.2        14.8        17.4
Publi invostsent/W                   18.7        10.0         8.7
PublIt saving/"P                     -2.0        -1.2        -1.2
Private inv.stant2P                   0.6        11.5        18..
Budget Wicit (-) or surplus (*)/P   -15.7       -11.2        -9.0
Exp*rto/OW                           21.1        22.8        24.7
import/GDP                           82.1        81.9        88.6
Currnt a¢oUnt/OD1                    4.6         -7.1        -6.2
I Colombo consumer price Index.
eDe rvice/4xparts of oods and cntatctor servie1.
12.       Inflation accelerated In late 1989 and, despite tightening overall
credit growth, persisted at around 21Z throughout 1990, due in particular to rupee
devaluation, adjustments in administered prices, increased consumer demand, higher
oil product prices, easing of the credit policy toward the end of the year, and
inflationary expectations.  Although inflation decreased to 12-132 in mid-1991,
it will probably take a period of sustained financial and fiscal restraint to
lower inflation to the PFP target of 6-7Z. The high rate of domestic inflation
in 1990 has also resulted in appreciation of the real effective exchange rate.
In addition to maintaining sound macroeconomic management, therefore, the
Government needs appropriate exchange rate policies that reflect market forces
and achieve external competitiveness.
C. The Policy Framework 1991-1994
13.       The Government is currently faced with the daunting tasks of restoring
peace in the North and the East, maintaining economic stability and the growth
momentum, and sustaining the reform process. At the top of the agenda remains
the need to maintain economic stability while moving forward on structural
reforms. The Government considers that too rapid an adjustment in some areas



could aggravate political instability. The Government thus believes that the
structural refonm program should proceed at a pace consistent with the country's
political situation. In addition to the immediate task of maintaining economic
stablilty, growth, and the structural reform process, the Government is ready to
address the underlying development issues which have aggravated the political
tensions  in the country.   In particular,  it intends to reduce the high
unemployment level through higher economic growth and, at the same tine, ensure
that there is an improvement in the poverty situation.
14.       The ongoing civil war in the North Esast complicates the Government's
task. Sri Lanka must take steps towards Implementing its structural changes in
the context of a difficult and, in some respects, uncertain economic settings
o    Recovery in growth and investment will have to be achieved against the
backdrop of a more constrained resource situation, an uncertain outlook
for export markets and prices, and a con$inuing need to finance defense
expenditures.
O    New sources of growth will need to be developed during this decade,
possibly in export-led manufacturing, food production (other than
rice), fisheries, a revived tourism sector, and a restructured tree
crops sub-sector.
O    The Government' s role is expected to diminish as the private sector
plays a much greater role in the creation of new productive capacity.
o    And finally, greater emphasis will have to be given to sustainable
development, including such issues as maintenance of physical assets,
growing concerns about unemployment, poverty and malnutrition, and
environmental degradation.
15.       Recognizing the importance of furthering the gains achieved thus far
In the stabilization efforts, the Government has reached agreement with the Bank
and the IMP on third-year PEP (reviewed by the IDA Committee of the Whole in
October 1990) and a fourth-Year PEP (scheduled to be reviewed in September 1991).
The main medium-term macroeconomic objectives are tOs (i) sustain growth at 5-6%
per year; (ii) reduce inflation to 62 by 1994; and (iii) limit the external
current account deficit to about 62 of GDP. Fiscal constraint is expected to
result in the budget deficit declining from about 1O0 GDP in 1990 to about 7? in
1994. These objectives will essentially require a gradual diminution of the civil
conflict, a stable macroeconomic environment including t4ght fiscal and monetary
policies coupled with appropriate exchange rate management, the establishment of
a consistent enabling environment for the private sector which will promote an
Increase in private investment and export oriented output, and a reduction in the
public sector's size and resource claims to make room for the private sector.
16.       Reducing the Public Sector.  The Government's strategy to decrease the
public sector's size comprises metsures to reduce the level of central Government
expenditures and a program to restructure and commercialize and/or privatize
public sector enterprises. Central Government expenditures have in recent years
accounted for about 33-34S of GDP. In addition to transfers required to support
inefficient public enterprises, public expenditures have sufferee. froms (i) the
high cost of civil administration; (ii) large transfers and subsidies to
households; and (iii) public investments with low rates of return. To reduce the
cost of civil administration, the Government is implementing the findings of its
Administrative Reforms Committee which recommended a reduction in the number of



- 6 -
ministries and retrenchment of 80,000 staff over a four-five year period. During
1990 the Government has already retrenched 40,000 staff and provided them with
compensatory packages.  The Government intends to re-target the Food Stamps
Program (FSP), which is the largest source of income transfers to households;
instead of half of the country's population benefitting (8 million in 1988) at
the cost of 1.3% of GDP, the program will be confined to about 1 million needy
households (or 4-5 million people). Another key program is the JSP which was
originally designed to provide income transfers to all households eligible under
the Food Stamps Program. Recognizing the JSP's adverse fiscal implicatlons and
limited poverty alleviation impact, the Government has restructured it
significantly in the context of the IDA-supported Poverty Alleviation Project
which aims at generating employment and incomes by givirng the poor access to
resources based on skills training complemented by credit. Subsidies, originally
equivalent to about 2Z of GDP, mainly for fertilizer, wheat, rice, and bus
transport have recently been eliminated.
17.       The Government has already taken steps to privatize and restructure a
number of public enterprises (PEs). It has divested six public enterprises (an
auto dealership, two textile mills, a liquid oxygen company, a ceramics
corporation, and a hotel), identified about 30 PEs for which phased implementation
to commercialize, restructure or privatize has begun, and started to privatize
the Central Transport Board (CTB). It has also drastically curtailed transfers
to commercial public enterprises. In addition, regarding restructuring the two
larger corporations in the tree crop subsector, the Government has recently
approved an action plan prepared by a high-level task force with the objective
of increasing the private sector's role to improve their efficiency.
18.       Expanding the Private Sector.   The Government intends to give the
private sector primary responsibility for generating future growth. In the past
large public expenditures have crowded out private investment which, at 10-112
of GDP, was insufficient to play a pivotal role in reviving economic growth.
Although private investment as a share of GDP increased to over 13? in 1990,
continuing uncertainties brought about by the security situation remain a cause
for concern for private investors--both domestic and foreign.
19.       In order to stimulate private development, the Government is taking a
number of steps to improve the business environment.   It has recently made
considerable progress in reducing bureaucratic requirements as well as in reducing
the level and the dispersion of effective rates of protection on manufactured
products. Except for 3ugar, the maxfimum nominal tariff on such products has been
reduced to 5OX, and import restrictions have been substantially liberalized. The
Government also has recently taken a number of other actions designed to improve
private investors' confidence.   It has lifted restrictions on foreign equity
participation and eliminated the 1OOS tax on transfers of up to 40X of local
shareholders' equity shares to foreigner, liberalized air freight and established
a high-level committee that will periodically monitor private sector grievances
and recommend appropriate actions to the Government.  The Government also is
committed to improving the foreign investment environment. In this regard, it
intends to increase the coverage of automatic approval of foreign investment to
all sectors, except for security and health reasons. Because of the financial
system's importance in mobilizing resources for private investment, activity, the
Government, with IDA and Asian Development Bank (ADB) assistance, is formulating
measures for restructuring the two largest state-owned commercial banks, with a
view to increasing the financial sector's ,verall efficiency.



20.       The Poverty Dimension.   Sri Lanka is exceptional among low-income
countries in having achieved an impressive social and human resources development
record which compared favorably with many developed countries in the mid-1970s.
During the first half of the 1980s, food consumption appears to have increased
significantly for the very poor, helped by sald progress in food grain output
as Sri Lanka achieved near self-sufficiency in rice production. Although the
health system has made steady progress, no extensive nutrition initiatives have
become operational; child malnutrition, in particular, continues to be a serious
problem awaiting targeted nutritional interventions for pre-school children and
pregnant and lactating mothers. Recent macroeconomic deterioration and civil
strife have undoubtedly worsened the poverty and nutrition levels among certain
groups, although evidence of this development is still not well documented. High
unemployment has exacerbated the poverty problem.   The characteristics of
unemployment (currently about 162) and its relationship to poverty appear to be
somewhat different in Sri Lanka than in some other countries in that the majority
of the unemployed are concentrated among relatively well-educated middle class
youth (the unemployment rate reaches 30S for the 15-24 age group) who are first
time entrants of the job market and will wait long periods to secure a job of
their choice--frequently in the public sector. Another important facet of the
problem is that many of the unemployed are well educated women. A higher rate
of economic growth will benefit the poor through ine'wased Income and employment
generation.   The Government also continues to pLace emphasis in its public
expenditure program on education,  nutrition and health programs with the
assistance of IDA and other donors. Nonetheless, the Government's structural
adjustment program seems to have had, at least initially, some adverse impact on
lower income groups as a result of the reduction in subsidies for key commodities
such as wheat flour and rice. However, it ic hoped that by targeting welfare
programs better (para. 16) and increasing per capita benefits of the PS?, the
Government will effectively reach the truly needy. The retrenchment in the public
sector, another important aspect of the Government's adjustment program, did not
impose undue hardship on those retrenched because it was voluntary and accompanied
by generous financial benefits.
D. External Financing Requiraments
21.       External Financing Requirements.   Continuing economic recovery is
assumed during 1;92-94, with GDP growth over 5s. This level of growth should be
attainable provided the Government vigorously implements its policy refonm program
and the civil situation improves further.   The improved export performance
observed in 19S0 is expected to continue, supported by the planned measures to
stimulate exports, including a flexible exchange rate policy as well as more
liberal industrial and investment policies. Exports are expected to expand by
over 7S annually in real terms during 1992-94. Although imports of investment
goods are projected to rise, rice and sugar imports are anticipated to decline
with increasing domestic production.  Imports are projected to increase by around
62 annually in real terms in line with higher economic activity. Accordingly,
current account deficits are projected at close to 62 of GDP during the period.
22.       The annual external fi%ancing requirement over 1992-94 is projected to
be about US$1 billion including increases in gross official reserves, in view of
further liberalization of the economy. About one third of the overall requirement
is expected to be met through disbursements from the existing pipeline, including
commitments to support the authorities' structural and sectoral adjustment
programs.   The remaining financing requirements for 1992 will be met from
disbursements from expected new commitments, including fast disbursing adjustment



- b -
lending from the proposed ADB financial sector loan, IHF's program and some
bilateral  cofinancing.    Disbursements  from existing and now policy based
operations as well as quick disbursing aid for food and other commodities are
expected to amonnt to US$154 million a year in 1992 and 1993. Assuming these
levels of foreign aid flows materialize, gross official reserves would rise
gradually from the equivalent of 1.8 months of imports at the end of 1990 to 3
months of imports by the end of 1994. Given the highly concessional nature of
foreign aid, the debt profile would improve, and the debt service ratio (as a
percentage of exports and non factor services) would decline from 18S in 1990 to
122 in 1994.
E. Sectoral Policies and Proarams
23.       The Government recognizes that stable macroeconomic policies are pre-
requisites for achieving structural reform and a sustained rate of economic
growth. An improved policy environment for the private sector, combined with a
reduction in public sector claims on resources, should significantly assist in
stimulating higher rates of investment and output in the main productive sectors,
agricalture and industry, which together account for nearly 50? of GDP. Policies
to stimulate private sector investment in agriculture and industry need to be
supported by rAhabilitation of the country's economic infrastructure, particularly
transport, which has suffered from the civil conflict. Because of the highly
constrained resource situation, investments with high rates of return should be
given priority; at the same time, resources devoted to rehabilitation and to
operations and maintenance will help raise existing capital assets' productivity.
An important feature of the Government's strategy in the public sector is to shift
selected revenue generating operations away from Central Government through a
gradual   process   of   transforming   Government   departments   (e.g.   rail,
telecommunications) into 4utonomous corporations, which are then commercialized
and eventually, partially or wholly, divested to the private sector.
24.       Agriculture contributes nearly 252 of GDP and provides direct employment
to nearly half of Sri Lanka's rctive labor force and about one third of the
country's exports. Following the 1977 liberalization of agricultural pricing and
marketing, average annual sector growth rose to nearly 4Z during 1978-82,
principally due to rapid increases in rice production which brought the country
to near self-sufficiency. During the second half of the 19809, however, growth
has declined to about 2? per annum due to adverse weather, civil disruptions, and
stagnation in the state-owned plantation sector.  In the past the Government
placed heavy emphasis on development of the large scale Mahaveli irrigation
scheme, designed mainly to support rice production, but also to provide
resettlement opportunities for the landless. This capital intensive scheme has
absorbed considerable financial resources but yielded low ral-es of return.
Instead of large scale irrigation investments, the Government now plans to give
higher priority to rehabilitation of existing small scale irrigation schemes with
higher returns to help support its agricultural diversification strategy. This
strategy will be further supported by improvements in the research and extension
services to provide the advice and assistance to farmers in developing their
cropping patterns. The Government intends to restructure and commercialize the
two large public corporations in the tree crop sector through private management
contracts. This program is expected to improve the sector's productivity, export
earnings and financial viability.   The Government is also promoting improved
forestry resource management to curtail the dependency on wood product imports
and ensure adequate supplies of fuelwood while safeguarding the forest
environment.



-9-
25.       Industrv. At lees than 20X of GDP, industry is still a relatively small
sector within the economy. It is, however, a fast growing segment, expanding more
than 62 per annum during 1980-87, although output has slowed in the last two to
three years primarily due to the civil disturbances. Growth areas have included
garments, ceramics, leather and the processing of gems. Most of the growth has
originated in the private sector, while the public manufacturing sector's output
has been almost stagnant. The Government recently adopted a new 'Strategy for
Industrialization in Sri Lanka' designed to promote an export-oriented open
economy based on a more competitive and deregulated environment. The strategy
includes savings mobilization, encouragement to foreign investments, neutrality
between privately and publicly owned enterprises and removal of barriers to
investment. To provide a more conducive environment for private investment, the
Government has already taken a number of significant actions in the areas of
tariff reform and investment liberalization and intends to take measures to
strengthen the banking sec tor by   ter aalis restructuring inefficient state-owned
banks and improving the Central Bank supervision of the financial institutions
(see para. 19). The rationalization and privatization of most PEs should provide
an improved environment for expansion of output in both the publlc ani private
manufacturing sectors.
26.       Infrastructure.  The Government's plans for the country's transport
system emphasize road rehabilitation and reorganization of the railways. Largely
due to neglect in maintenance and institutional inefficiencies, transport costs
by road and rail are excessively high.  Government policies are therefore aimed
at reducing transport costs and raising the productivity of investment in the
sector through rehabilitation, improved maintenance and, in the case of bus
transport, the privatization of CTB. The Government has increased bus and rail
fares in response to the recent increase in oil prices. It has already submitted
to the Parliament a National Transportation Act which vill deregulate bus fares.
Restructu-tng of the management and organization of the Sri Lankan Railways (which
currently operates as a Government department) will be required for the system
to operate on a more commercial and financially viable basis. The Government is
also in the process of upgrading the country's telecommunications system through
continued introduction of modern technology and has recently transformed the
Government Telecommunications Department into a public corporation to operate on
a commercial basis. In the power sector the Government's primary objective is
to improve the system's efficiency through measures to reduce losses, upgrade the
transmission and distribution system and rationalize the institutional
arrangements for electricity supply. One impediment to the system's efficient
operation of the system has been the past proliferation in the number of
distribution entities, and the Government is implementing a program to gradually
reduce their number and I-prove their operating efficiency.   To improve the
finances of the electricity generation and supply agencies and help promote energy
conservation, the Government is committed to adjusting electricity tariffs to
achieve adequate rate of return on capital invested. To meet this objective,
power tariffs were raised by 40X in April 1990.
27.       Social Sectors.  Sri Lanka has well developed educational and health
systems, and its education and health indicators rival or exceed those in many
countries with higher incomes. For example, adult literacy and primary school
enrollment rates both approach 90Z, while life expectancy is 69 years and infant
mortality is 32 per thousand. The decline in resources allocated to the education
sector during the first half of the 19808 led to some decline in the quality of
teaching staff and inadequate maintenance. The problem vas compounded by weak
in-service training of teachers, low salaries and poor management of the system.



. 10 -
Bowever, during the last two years, the Government has increased budgetary
allocations to education emphasizing rehabilitation and maintenance rather than
expansion, launched a new teacher training program, improved salaries, and re-
organized the school system with more decentralized management.  In order to
address the long-standing problem of mismatch between the educational system's
output and the economy's manpower needs, the Government has initiated a study to
identify the skill gaps in the economy and to assess the need to restructure the
educatLon and training systems. In health the problem has been less financial
resource constraints than weak management and organization, leading to breakdowns
In staffing, logistics, maintenance and supplies. There has also been a lack of
specific health objectives and strategies as a basis for formulating and financing
well articulated sector Investment plans. This has resulted in poor planning,
recruitment difficulties, slowed delivery service patterns, uneven access to the
primary health care  system  and weak  financial controls.   There  is also
considerable uAmet demand for family planning services.   The Government has
already began to address several of these issues, with support under an IDA-
financed project, and is now carrying out a health strategy and financing study,
Introducing improved service delivery in two regions to test replicability nation-
wide and Improving its management system for medical rupply distribution. At the
same tine famlly planning delivery services are being strengthened with help from
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities. Despite the extensive health
services expansion, and the Food Stamps Program, there remalns a serious
nutritional deficiency problem, mainly among infants and particularly in the rural
areas and in the estates. In addition to the infant food program, the Government
has initiated a pilot nutrition program aimed at pre-school children and pregnant
and lactating mothers, which it plans to expand with IDA support.
28.       Environment.  Sri Lanka has a well-established legislative base of
environmental laws and a reasonable institutional framework with which to address
key conservation and environmental protection issues. The Central Environmental
Authority (CEA), under the newly established Ministry of Environment, serves as
the linkage for cross-sectoral environmental issues and enjoys the support of a
number of donors. The CEA has been charged with the responsibility for developing
Sri Lanka's approach towards environmental protection, conducting research,
formulating environmental standards and protection criteria, and recomending
natural resource conservation policies in all areas. Environmental non-Government
organizations (NOQ0) are growing and have become increasingly important since
1987. A number of primary environmental issues have been identified, including
soil erosion, coastal zone degradation, industrial pollution and the central issue
of deforestation and the attendant loss of biological diversity.   With the
assistance of IDA and other donor agencies, the Government is addressing these
issues by formulating an Environmental Action Plan identifying priority actions
it must take in cooperation with NGOs, the academlc com-unity, and public and
private enterprises.
F. IDA's Assistance to Sri Lanka
29.       Bank Group Operations.  Prior to the advent of the new Government in
1989, Bank Group assistance to Sri Lanka fluctuated, depending largely on the rate
of progress in the policy dialogue with the country. 'hile the Bank has always
maintained a fairly strong presence in Sri Lanka, our support was particularly
significant during the major liberalization period after 1977 when the Bank's
assistance increased sharply. In the mid-1980s when the country was facing ethnic
problems, the Government's inability to pursue a vigorous economic reform program



11 v
constrained the bank's country assistance strategy in terms of lending support,
particul&rly adjustment lending.
30.       As of June 30, 1991 the Bank Group had approved 12 loans totalling
US$131.1 million (net of cancellations) and 59 credits totalling US$1, 9.S
million (net of cancellations) since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka
In 1954. The sectoral allocation is as shown below.
original              Number of
Soctor                         Amunt    Percent      Project
Agricalture                    622.00     88            29
P      _werIEnerp              259.21     14            10
Water 8uppiy                    70.20      4 a
Transport                      22.98      12             7
Induetry & Tolel.              444.60     28            15
Education                       64.00      8             2
Urben                           18.00      1             1
H..lth/Popletlon                76.00      4             2
Mmcro/Struct. Adjat            110.40      6             2
Total Comitments: I/          104.54    100             71
I/ Of which 3106.84 el I Ion m" camcled
31.       The IFC has made total investments in Sri Lanka of US$3.4 million
equivalent in equity and US$35.8 million equivalent in loans (gross commitments).
Investments have been made so far in two textile enterprises, one polypropylene
bag company, one equipment-leasing company, one hotel and one private insurance
company. Two IPC lines of credit have been approved, one to the Government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
32.       Proiect Implementation. Sri Lanka has traditionally maintained a good
record on project implementation. Because of the civil conflict and unsettled
conditions, however, implementation of a number of projects has slowed down in
certain areas.  At the same time, with increasing budget constraints, some
projects  have  also  suffered  from  inadequate  counterpart  funding.   These
developments have been accompanied by a decline in the project disbursement ratio
from about 21? in FY86 to about 12? in FY90 (excluding a quick disbursing credit).
The Government has been making concerted efforts to tackle immediate problems,
including prioritizing its investment program and protecting core, high priority
projects against budgetary funding shortfalls. In support of the Government's
efforts and in view of Sri Lanka's relatively low per capita income and its severe
foreign exchange constraints, IDA has recently agreed to increase its share of
financing of project costs (net of duties and taxes) from an average of about 70X
to 902. Benefitting from these efforts, project implementation is beginning to
show improvements. In FY91, the project disbursement ratio improved to over 192.
Further improvement in project implementation can be expected as progress is made
in resolving the civil conflict.
33.       IDA's Country Assistance Strategy.  IDA's country assistance strategy
supports the main elements of the Government's PFPs. This would encompasst (i)
economic stabilization, emphasizing measures which address both internal and
external balances, together with action to stimulate a high rate of sustained
economic growth; (ii) addressing medium-term structural issues, mainly by reducing



- 12 -
the size of the public sector while Improving its efficiency and strengthening
the role of private sector; and (iii) mitigating the impact of adjustment on the
poor, while laying the basis for more sustained poverty alleviation efforts. This
strategy's implementation is aided by the close, collaborative working
relationship that has developed over the past few years among the Government, IMF
and IDA beginning in late 1986 when the Government requested assistance to prepare
a policy framework to avert emerging economic difficulties. Progress towards
meeting the objectives are set out in the third-year and fourth-year PFPs, many
of which are being supported by IDA's ESC and Public Manufacturing Enterprises
Adjustment Credit (PMEAC).
34.       Our lending activities and ESV will continue to place emphasis on
private sector development, which is critical for Sri Lanka's future economic
growth. IDA will help the Government to identify regulatory impediments to both
domestic and foreign investment. FIAS will help the Government in the promotion
of direct foreign investment through the issuance of foreign investment guidelines
and the establishment of an Investment Promotion Agency. During FY92 IDA will
undertake a Private Sector Development Assessment in Sri Lanka in parallel with
a government-sponsored study on bureaucratic controls.   IDA will assist in
implementing the recommendations of both studies. IDA will also continue to
support Government's privatization efforts. Of particular importance is the tree
crop sector restructuring with the ultimate goal being the privatization of the
estates over the medium term. In this sector, the incentive framework (export
taxation, subsidies, and market regulations) will also be reformed to provide
adequate incentives to the private sector.   In the financial sector, IDA"s
imuediate objective would be to create an equal playing field for both private
and public institutions and to commercialize the two state-owned banks in
preparation of their possible privatization.
35.       In order to ensure that economic growth is sustainable, IDA will put
emphasis on two important areass poverty alleviation and environmental protection.
Our Poverty Alleviation Project ( F91) will be an important vehicle In ensuring
that the Government's poverty programs are targeted to the truly needy and provide
them with rural employment, credit and training facilities to break the vicious
circle of poverty. Its nutritional component will ensure that children at high
risk of malnutrition are targeted.   We will also undertake a Poverty and
Unemployment Review in order to better understand the root causes of poverty in
Sri Lanka, so that IDA's future interventions in this area can be more effective.
IDA has recently discussed with the Government and the NGOs an Environmental
Action Plan, the recommendations of which will be fully incorporated into IDA's
lending operations.
36.       Lending Program. IDA would support the Government's adjustment program
outlined in the third- and fourth-year PFPs by means of a number of quick-
disbursing, policy-based operations. The approved ERC has been supporting pricing
and expenditure measures designed to restore macroeconomic stability, civil
service retrenchment and public expenditure rationalization, trade and tariff
reform to promote private development, and restructuring of Government welfare
programs to target them to the most needy.  The PMEAC is supporting a major
program designed to commercialize and privatize PMEE to improve their efficiency.
Through such quick-disbursing operations, IDA will be able to ensure
implementation of critical policy reforms as well as provide foreign exchange to
help reconstitute the country's depleted reserves.  In addition to adjustment
operations, IDA would continue to support sectoral policy and institutional reform
through investment operations.



- 13 -
37.       IDA's planned investment operations will focus on support for the
productive sectors (agriculture and industry) with the objective of stimulating
higher rates of growth, employment and incomes. At the same time IDA's operations
in these sectors would be designed to provide an improved policy and institutional
framework to encourage private sector export-oriented production. In agriculture
there will be a shift from IDA's emphasis on support for major irrigation schemes
(e.g. Mahaweli) for increased rice production. Instead, higher priority will be
given to rehabilitating and improving existing irrigation schemes (particularly
small-scale tanks) to help diversify of food crops.   Proposed lending also
includes support to the extension services to assist farmers in their
diversification efforts. At the same time, a program is being discussed with
the Government to improve the efficiency, productivity and financial viability
of the tree crops subsector, which remains a major source of foreign exchange,
and formulate the comnercialization and private sector involvement in the public
sector plantations. IDA is already active in the forestry subsector and plans
a follow-up project to continue assisting the Government's efforts to ensure
environmentally sound development of this renewable resource. In industry, IDA
has a two-pronged strategy consisting, firstly, in assisting the Government's
efforts to restructure the PMEs either through c mmercialization and/or outright
privatization in selected cases; and secondly, in continuing its active program
of lending for private small and medium investment industrial development through
financial intermediaries.   Such operations to date have proved relatively
successful in promoting private manufacturing output, initiating trade and tariff
policy reform in the sector and reforming the financial system. An IDA financial
sector study has examined ways to improve the performance of the principal
financial intermediaries and their financial environment to expand private sector
investment.
38.       In infrastructure IDA has been heavily involved in the power sector in
ten operations which have contributed significantly to the sector's development.
Taking into account the progress made, both institutionally and in terms of
reliability of supply, IDA plans gradually to phase out of the sector.  The
proposed Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project is to assist the
Government to rationalize the institutional arrangements for power distribution
further and to help rehabilitate the distribution systems presently managed by
licensees to reduce system losses and improve supply quality. As a result of
damage and neglect of maintenance occasioned by the civil conflict, there is now
urgent need to rehabilitate and maintain the transport system.  An improved
transport  network  (road  and  rail),  together  with  development  of  the
telecommunications system, will help support the needed revival of investment and
output in the directly productive sectors. Transport projects would primarily
support rehabilitation of the road and rail networks together with improved
maintenance operations.   IDA-supported investments in these areas will also
introduce policy and institutional reform measures to commercialize the entities
operating in the sub-sectors as well as generate revenues to ensure adequate
operation and maintenance and meet a share of future investment requirements.
In the social sectors, IDA is already supporting ongoing operations in general
education and health and family planning which address the sectoral issues
discussed in para. 27 above. Follow-up projects are expected in three to four
years time. The Bank has recently approved a Poverty Alleviation Project, which
includes provision of credit to poor households for production purposes, training,
a rural works fund for infrastructure rehabilitation as well as a nutrition
component for infants and pregnant and lactating mothers.
39.       Planned Lending Level and Composition.  The FY92-95 lending program is
tentatively planned at a level of about US$445 million, depending on IDA resource



- 14 -
avallabillty as well as country macroeconomic and project performance.
Approxsimately a quarter of thls amount might be in the form of adjustment lendlng
to support continued policy reform and help reconstitute the country's depleted
foreign exchange reserves. Future IDA lending will give lncreased emphasie to
support for agriculture, lndustry, the related financial sector and infrastructure
(particularly transport), as well as the social sectors.
40.       Country Economic and Sector Work.  Future adjustment and investment
operations will be supported by economic and sector analysls focusing ons
o    Macroeconomic stabillzation and adiustment. Sri Lanka's evolving macro
policy and performance will be assessed, particularly wlth regard to
the country's success in attalaing a higher path of growth. A public
expenditure program review will also be undertaken to identify
investment priorities;
o    Agricultural growth and diversification strategy.  The analysis will
focus on policy and institutional reforms deslgned to restore
agricultural output, restructure the stagnant plantatlon sector, and
stimulate development of alternative crops (moving away from the
current predominance of rlce) with hlgh export potentlal;
o    Industrial and financial sector reform.  Assistance will be provided
to the Government in implementing its announced industriallzation
strategy, in particular to address the lssue of absorbing more educated
but unemployed youth, and in strengthening the financial sector; and
o    Human resource base and 2overty.  Special emphasis will be placed on
education, health and nutrltion sector analysis, as well as on gaining
a better understanding of the roots of poverty and thelr link to
unemployment.
41.       Coordination with IMP. The IMF is playing a major role in Srl Lanka.
In very close cooperation with IDA, the Fund's agreement with the Government on
a second-year PFP and related Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP) arrangement
paved the way for the current program of reforms, which is belng supported with
a third-year PFP. A fourth-year PFP has been prepared as the basis for the
proposed enhanced SAP arrangement for the next three years. The Bank has also
worked closely with the Fund in preparing the nRC which was deslgned, in part,
to support the DMP's SAP program. IDA and Fund staff have participated in each
other's missions in processing the PPP, nRC and annual CEhs.
42.       Ald Coordlnation.   The ald community's stance towards Sri Lanka
continues to be generally supportive despite some concern about the contlnuing
civil disturbances and alleged human rights violations. The donors represent a
large segment of the international community, led by Japan, IDA and the ADB. IDA
maintains frequent exchanges of views with the Japanese authorities and ADB. The
collaboration has increased over the last few years with the advent of adjustment
operations by IDA and ADB to support the Government's economic reforms and
increased Japanese ald presence in Sri Lanka. IDA chairs the annual aid group
meeting ln Paris to discuss the broad thrust of the Government's policies and
mobilize support for its development program. At the field level, the Resldent



- 15 -
Mission convenes periodic donor meetings covering macroeconomic and sectoral
issues as wvll to help coordinate investments.
G. Summary Assessment and Policy Priorities
43.       In addition to sustaining economic stability and growth and
maintaining the process of structural refoams, Sri Lanka will have to address
employment and poverty issues which have recently aggravated political tensions.
These development imperatives have to be fulfilled against a very different
environment than prevailed in the last two decades. First, sustained economic
growth and higher investment level will have to be achieved against the need to
continue to stabilize macroeconomic imbalances  by  increasing efficiency and
curtailing unnecessary expenditures. Second, the sources of growth in the coming
decade will have to change in favor of export-led manufacturing, agricultural
diversification, a revived tourism sector, and a rehabilitated tree crops sub-
sector. Third, the importance of the public sector in Industrial and commercial
activities is expected to be reduced whereas the private sector, including foreign
investment, will have to play a much greater role in the creation of productive
capacity. And fourth, greater emphasis will be given to sustainable development
through adequate maintenance of physical assets, improved poverty and nutrition
programs, and measures to prevent environmental degradation.
44.       IDA's  country  assistance  strategy  is  designed  to  support  this
development agenda through a series of investment and adjustment operations
particularly in the financial sector, tree crop rehabilitation, agricultural
diversification, and in health and education. The short to medium-term criteria
for judging the country's progress towards more sustainable development are set
out in detail in the Policy Matrix of the fourth year Policy Framework Paper.
Of particular importance ares (i) reform of the public enterprise sector which
would include a comprehensive action plan to privatize all commercial public
enterprises,    except    for    security    and    health    reasons,
restructuringicommercialization of the state plantation sector, and completion
of privatization of remaining public bus companies; (1i) improvement in the
efficiency of financial intermediation by restructuring two state commercial banks
and removing distortions on interest rates; (iii) rationalization of public
sector's resource use by streamlining government employment, better targeting and
production orientation of welfare programs; and (iv) promotion of domestic and
foreign investment by reducing marginal corporate income tax, increasing the
coverage of automatic approval of foreign investment, liberalization of trade
regime, and ensuring flexibility in exchange rate management.
PART II
THE PMOPOSED CREDIT
45.       Background. Sri Lanka has few indigenous energy resources, the most
important of which are hydropower and fuelwood. There are no known hydrocarbon
reserves. Domestic energy use is based on fuelvood which accounted for 702
of primary energy supply in 1990, with the balance being met by imported oil



- 16 -
(19Z) and hydroelectricity (IIZ).  Net oil  imports accounted for 13S of non-
petroleum export earnings in 1990.   Since the early 1970s GOSL's evolving
energy policy has focused on the gradual reduction of the country's dependence
on mported petroleum. Thus, the major objectives of GOSL's present energy
strategy (which is supported by ADB and IDA as major donors in the sector) are
tot (a) meet energy demand at least cost to the economys (b) develop domestic
hydropower resources to reduce the country's dependence on imported oil;
tc) increase the supply of non-couaercial energy through a program of
reforestation; (d) promote energy conservation; te) adjust energy prices to
promote its efficient and economLc use taking into account social objectives;
and (f) improve energy sector entities' resource mobilization to meet the
country's development goals.  In the pursuit of these objectives, GOSL has
given higb priority to the development of the power subsector and has allocated
a large share of the public investments and external assistance to the
development of hydro generation facilities.  The centerpiece of hydropower
development has been the Accelerated Mahaweli Program (AMP) which contributed
582 MW capacity to the national grid during 1984-90.   The AMP received
assistance from IDA, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Germany. Japan and the
United Kingdom are financing the 120 NW Samanalawewa hydropower project for
commissioning in 1992. IDA and several bilateral donors have also provided
coordinated assistance for the expansion of CEB's transmission and distribution
systems, while ADB has been a major source of finance and technical assistance
for the development of Lanka Electricity Company (Private) Ltd (LECO) and rural
electrification. The physical expansion of the power supply system has been
accompanied by institutional reforms to rationalize the organization of the
subsector.
46.       One major reform being implemented relates to the institutional
arrangements for the distribution of electricity. Prior to 1988, responsi-
bility for electricity distribution was spread among CEB, a statutory
corporation established in 1969 responsible for all electricity generation and
transmission throughout the country, LECO, and about 200 local authorities
(licensees), with CEB accounting for about 75S of retail sales.   This
fragmentation of responsibility impeded the power subsector's efficient
development as most licensees' systems face shortages of technical and
financial resources, high distribution losses, poor quality of supply and high
accounts payable to CBS. To remedy this situatLon, a Distribution Master Plan
(DMP) study was comuissioned under IDA's Ninth Power Project (Cr. 1736-CE) to
assess the need for institutional reform.  The study recommended a phased
takeover by CEB of licensees outside LECO's planned operating area (along the
western coastal belt), supported by greater decentralization of distribution
management within CEB, as the best arrangement for power distribution. GOSL
accepted these recommendations and in 1988 launched a major institutional
reform program to transfer the distribution responsibility of local authorities
to CEB and LECO. IDA's Power Distribution and Transmission Project (Cr. 1933-
CE) approved in 1988 is supporting CEB's takeover of 130 licensees while ADB's
FY88 Secondary Towns Power Distribution Project II is supporting LECO's
takeover of 23 licensees. Implementation of takeovers under Cr. 1933-CE is
proceeding on schedule and would be completed by mid-1991. Vhile full benefits
would    materialize    only    following    the    completion    of   major
rehabilitation/expansion, experience indicates that CEB has been successful in
reducing system losses in the worst performing distribution systems taken over



- 17 -
from 40? to 20? through urgent rebabilitation and introducing better discipline
in commercial and operating procedures. In view of these significant results
and to expedite resolution of the endemic issue of high accounts receivable
from licensees, it is proposed that CEB takeover the remaining 53 licensees.
In parallel to rationalizing the organizational arrangements for power
distribution, there is a critical need to strengthen CEBI's institutional
capacity to enable it to expand and operate a growing system efficiently with
an appropriate quality of service.
47.       While significant progress has been made during the 19809 in hydro-
power development and in implementation of major tariff and institutional
reforms, further action is needed in the areas of investment planning, energy
pricing, institutional strengthening of the power subs3ictor entities and GOSL's
sector management in order to achieve an accelerated improvement in sector
performance and to maximize the potential contribution of the sector to the
achievement of Sri Lanka's economic and social objectives.
48.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The primary justification for IDA's
involvement In the power subsector is IDA's capability to provide technical
assistance and advice to ¢OSL oan policy and institutional matters, and the
emphasis of IDA's leading strategy on institution building. So far, IDA's
involvement has complemented the assistance extended by multilateral
and bilateral donors, and IDA's continued involvement through the project is
important as it would enable IDA to maintain this effective relationship in a
sector where further reform is needed and IDA's extensive cross-country
experience In the sector in developing countries is directly relevant in
advising GOSL on overall sector management.
49.       In support of GOSL's energy sector objectives, IDA's sector assis-
tance strategy has placed major emphasis on: (a) evolving an institutional
framework for the efficient development and operation of the power system;
(b) enhancing the efficLency of energy use and lmplementing conservation
measures; (c) rationalizing ener&- consumption through setting energy prices
in relation to the costs to the economy of meeting consumers' demands for
energy; and (d) strengthening the energy sector institutions to improve their
technical operations and financial performance. Recognizing that achievement
of these objectives will be a long-term process requiring repeater projects,
IDA's lending strategy for the power subsector has been to maintain a balance
between supporting physlcal investment and CEBI's institutional building and to
engage GOSL and CEl's top management In a continuing dialogue on overcoming
sector constraints. To date, the Bank Group has financed ten power projects
in Sri Lanka, of which eight have been completed. Bank Group funds committed
through these operations have totaled US$239 million, representing about 16S
of total Bank resources committed to Sri Lanka to March 31, 1991.
50.       Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Operations.   Implementation of
IDA's Fifth, Sixth and Ninth Power Projects (Cr6. 372-Cl, 1048-Cl, and 1736-CE)
experienced serious delays. Altho4gh some delays were caused by factors beyond
CEi's control, such as civil disturbances, unsatisfactory performance of
contractors, the Project Performance Audit Report and Project Completion Report
for the Fifth and S -.th Power Projects, respectively, have cited deficiencies
in CEB's project management resulting from a shortage of experienced staff and



- 18 -
lck of an effective project implementation monitoring and reporting system,
and GOSLICSB's protracted procurement procedures as the primary implementation
Impediments.  To address these constraints, actions have been initiated to
streamline GOSL/CEB's internal procurement procedures and technical assistance
would be provided under the project to improve CSB's project management
capability.
S1.       Project  Objectives.    The project  woulds  (a)  support  further
rationalization of the organization of power distribution to reduce system
losses In the distribution systems presently operated by licensees and improve
quality of electricity supplys (b) provide additional transmission facilities
to help meet the projected demand; (c) further strengthen CED's institutional
capacity; and (d) assist in the preparation of a selected hydropower project.
52.       Proiect Description.  The project would consist of the following
components: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of licensees' distribution systems
to be taken over by CEB during FY92-95; (b) a slice of CE's least cost
transmission Investments comprising the construction of about 152 km of 220-kV
line, about 45 km of 132-kV lines and related substations, plus installation
of 70 MVAR reactive compensation equipment; (c) consultancy services to: (i)
prepare detailed designs and bid documents for the 220-kV transmission works
and reactive compensation equipment and assist in bid evaluation and
construction supervision thereof; (ii) assist CEB to computerize its accounts,
upgrade its financial management information system and establish a
computerized project management information system; and (iII) prepare
feasibility and detailed engineering studies for selected hydropower project;
and  (d) a utility management training program.   The project would be
implemented over siz years. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$79.0 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$42.5
million (54Z).  A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Sri Lanka are
given in Schedules C and D, respectively. Two maps highlighting the project
area, IBRD Ros. 22860 and 22861, are attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No.
9525-CZ, dated June 28, 1991 is being distributed separately.
53.      #Areed Actions. Agreement has been reached with GOSL that it will
take all necessary actions, including tariff increases, to enable CEB to earn
a minimum rate of return on the current value of its average net fixed assets
employed of 71 for 1992 and 1993 and 81 for 1994 and thereafter. Further, CEB
has agreed tot (a) submlt to IDA by November 30, 1991 a detailed training
program and implement the agreed training thereafter; and (b) continue to
implement measures to reduce overall accounts receivable for electricity
supplied to a level not exceeding three months' billings by December 31, 1991.
As conditions of credit effectiveness, CEB would be required to issue the bid
documents for distribution materials and 132-kV transmission works and letters
of invitation for consultancy services (listed in para. 47(c)Ci)&(ii) above).
54.       Environmental  Imact.  The ecological impact of transmission and
distribution lines is regulated by Sri Lanka's existing laws, namely, Section
15 of the Electricity Act, the Flora and Fauna Act, and the Forestry Ordinance.



- 19 -
Most of the distribution lines included in the project would be constructed
adjacent to public roadways and would be similar in visual impact to existing
lines.   The routings of the new transmission lines would utilize existing
corridors of public roadways and transmission lines and thus pose no new
environmental implications.
5S.       Programs of Special EmWhasis.  As noted above the expansion of the
distribution and transmission networks would follow existing right of ways.
With this safeguard any adverse environmental impact would be minimized. In
the area of poverty alleviation the project does not target low income groups
directly, but the improved availability of electricity at the rural/village
level would enbance the quality of life generally.   The availability of
improved electricity supply in the urban/rural areas would also act as a
catalyst for mlcro enterprise development (all private sector), which often
offers employment opportunities to women particularly in the textile/ganment
preparation areas.
56.       Benefits. Benefits would include increased availability and improved
quality of power supply, and resource savings from reduction of system losses.
Further, the institutional support would improve CEB's performance as an
effective and efficient utility. The project would also contribute to the
development of the remaining hydropower potential in an environmentally sound
manner.   CEB's least cost power development program, which includes the
proposed project, is expected to have an economic rate of return of 16X.
57.       Risks.  The project would not pose any special technical risks.  The
potential risks for the project are delays in procurement and shortfalls in
C8's  project  management  capacity.    To minimize  these  risks,  advance
procurement actions have been initiated and adequate technical assistance is
provided to assist CEB in the implementation and construction supervision of
transmission works. Distribution rehabilitation in the Northern province faces
risk of implementation delays if civil unrest in the area continues. This risk
is considered limited and will be addressed through the agreed procurement and
disbursement arrangements.
58.       Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 28, 1991



- 20 -                         SCHEDML  A
SRILAK
SECOND POWIER DISTRIBUTION AND RNSMISSION _ROECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
eotlwated Costs S/
Lpeal      Fore ln      Total
------- (Us$ Million) --
Distribution Rehabilitation                     13.4         9.2         22.6
Transmission System Expansion                   16.6        21.6         38.2
Consulting Services                              0.4         3.9          4.3
Training                                         O.1         .6           0.7
Base Coat                                       30.5        35.3         65.8
Physical Contingencies                           3.0         3.5          6.5
Price Contingencies                              3.          3.7          6.7
Total Project Coat                              36.5        42.5         79.0
a/ Including US$10.0 million in taxes and duties.
Pinancinr. 11gan
Nocal      Frefin        Total
------- (US$ Million) -
IDA                                              7.5        42.5         50.0
CEB                                             29.0         -           29.0
Total                                           36.5        42.5         79.0
_-  -



Page 1 of 2
SRILAR
SECOND POWER DISTRI8UTION AND TRANSMISSION pROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMEMTS
Procurement Method AI        TOTAL
Project Element                           ICB       LCB    OTHER       N.A.   COST
---    ---- (US$ Million) ------------
Distribution Rehabilitation
Equipment and Materials                14.0      1.7      -        2.0 bI  17.7
(10.2)   (0.1)     -          -     (10.3)
Civil Works and Erection                -        3.6     4.4 _/      -       8.0
(2.5)     -         -       (2.5)
Transmission
Transmission Lines                     32.3       -       -          -      32.3
(24.3)     -       -          -     (24.3)
Grid Substations                       11.7       -       -          -      11.7
(7.0)     -       -          -      (7.0)
Consultancy and Training                    -        -       5.9        -       5.9
_        -      (5.9)       -      (5.9)
Way Leave                                   -        -       -         1.5      1.5
Administration                                                         1.9      1.9
Total                                     58.0      5.3     10.3       5.4     79.0
(41.5)   (2.6)    (5.9)       -     (50.0)
af Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
kl Consisting of US$1.8 million of reserved procurement of distribution
transformers and US$0.2 million for local processing of distribution
conductors.
£/ Cost of construction executed by force account.



- 22 -                   SCHEDUEB I
Page 2 of 2
DISB-URSEM-ENS
(US$ Million)
Category                            AMount                   S
Distribution Equipment and                          1OOS of foreign
Haterials                                         expenditures, 100l   of local
(i)  Northern Province             4.5          expenditure. (ex-factory
(ii)  Other Provinces               5.0          cost) and 70S of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
Distribution Civil Works and          2.3           702 of local expenditures
Erection
Transmission Works (turn-key)        28.5           1OOZ of foreign expenditure
and 702 of local
expenditure.
Consultants' Services and             4.8           1002
Training
Unallocated                            4.9
Total                          50.0
EstImated IDA Disbursements:
IDA FY               92      94               95     96     97     98
___    ----     (US$ Million) ----------------
Annual                4.0    9.0    12.2    12.2    5.2    5.2    2.2
Cumulative            4.0   13.0    25.2    37.4   42.6   47.8   50.0



- 23 -                    SCHEDULE C
SRI LAuRA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
TIME TABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                18 Months
(b)  Prepared by:                          Government with IDA assistance
(*)  Pirst IDA mission:                    September 1989
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:          February 1991
(e)  NeSotiatirns:                         May 1991
(i)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        October 1991
(g)  List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:      Power V, Cr. 372-CE
(PPAR No. 3711), December 7, 1981
Power VI, Cr. 1048-CE
(PCR No. 9163), November 30, 1990
Power VII, Cr. 1210-CE
(PCR No. 9164), November 30, 1990



-24-                           Schedule D
Pag 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 28, 1991)
Amount In US8 million
(less cancellations)
Loan or          Fliscl                                                                        Undil-
Credit No.         Yar    Borrower                 Purpose                  Bank       IDA      bursed
__ _ __ _  _____                 -------                 ----        ---      ------
12 loans and 84 credits have been fully disbursed                          181.1     493.8
Cr. 1166-SRI     1981     Sri Lanka   Mahawell Cango Dev III                         90.0       24.9
Cr. 1817-SRI     1982     Sri Lanka   Forestry I                                      9.0         6.0
Cr. 1637-SRI     1986     Sri Lanka   Major Irrigation Rehab                         17.0        9.8
Cr. 1662-SRI     1986     Sri Lanka   Fourth Tree Crops                              55.0        8.6
Cr. 1892-SRI     1980     Sri Lanka   Industrial Dev II                              20.0         2.9
Cr. 1697-SRI     1988     Sri Lanka   Municipal Management                           13.0         6.1
Cr. 1898-SRI     1988     Sri Lanka   Second Vocational Training                     16.0        11.1
Cr. 1700-SRI     1986     Sri Lanka   Water Supply and Sanitation                    37.0        31.8
Cr. 1786-SRI     1987     Sri Lanka   Ninth Power                                    52.0        8S.8
Cr. 1776-SRI     1987     Sri Lanka   Agriculture Research                           18.6        18.4
Cr. 1860-SRI     1987     Sri Lanka   Third Smal: A Med Industries                   20.0         3.2
Cr. 1803-SRI     1988     Sri Lanka   Emergency Recon & Rehab                        78.0       42.0
Cr. 1903-SRI     1989     Sri Lanka   Health A Family Planning                       17.6        18.0
Cr. 1909-SRI     1989     Sri Lanka   2nd Smallholder Rubber Rehab                   28.5        19.1
Cr. 1933-SRI     1989     Sri Lanka   Power Distrib A Transmission                   40.5        86.1
Cr. 1948-SRI     1989     Sri Lanka   Third Industrial Development                   43.8       23.5
Cr. 2043-SRI     1989     Sri Lanka   Forestry II                                    19.9       19.4
Cr. 2072-SRI     1990     Sri Lanka   General Education                              49.0       49.8
3Cr. 2128-SRI     1990     Sri Lanka   Economic Restruc. Credit                       90.0       47.1
oCr. 2128-1-SRI   1990     Sri Lanka   Economic Restruc. Credit                        4.4        0.2
-Cr. 2128-2-SRI   1991     Sri Lanka   Economic Restruc. Credit                        7.0        0.0
Cr. 2183-SRI     1991     Sri Lanka   Srd Roads                                      42.5       B8.1
OCr. 2186-SRI     1991     Sri Lanka   Public Manuf. Enter. Adjust.                  120.0       66.2
Cr. 2231-SRI b>  1991     Sri Lanka   Poverty Alleviation                            57.6        68.5
Cr. 2249-SRI  >  1991     Sri Lanka   Telecoms II                                    57.0       52.8
Cr. 2250-SRI b>  1991     Sri Lanka   SMI IV                                         46.0       43.9
Cr.2280-SRI  6>  1991     Sri Lanka   National Irrigation Rehab.                     29.6       28.9
Total                                                   131.1    1565.1 a>  684.5
Of which has been repaid                                6.6       15.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            5.68    1649.9
Amount sold          8.69
Of which repaid    8.59
Total undisbursed                                                             684.5
a> The principal amounts of IDA credits are shown in US Dollar equivalent at date of negotiations,
as shown In the President's Report. Undisbursed amounts shown In US Dollar equivelent ore value
at the exchange rate applicable on the date of this statment. In some cases, therefore, the
undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit
amount expressed tn dollars.
b> Not yet effective
e Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits



- 25 -                                     Schedule D
PRig 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 28, 1991)
Fiscal           Obilgor                  Business                   Loan       Equity    Total
Year
1970       Pearl Textile Mille       Textile and Fibers               2.6        0.75       3.26
1978,      Development Finance       Development Finance               -         0.48       0.48
1980,      Corporation of Ceylon
1983
1978       Bank of Ceylon            Development Finance              7.00         -        7.00
1981
1979,      Ceylon Synthetic          Textilo and Fibers               8.15        0.64      3.68
1981       Textile
1979       Mikechria Industries      Woven Polypropylene              0.89        0.10      0.99
Limited and Ceylon        Bags
Paper Sacks Ltd.
1980/      Lanka Orient Leasing      Capital Market                   3.00        0.34      3.34
1984       Company Ltd.
1986
1991       Lanka Hotels              Tourism                         19.30        0. 70    20.00
1988       UAL                       Money and Capital                 -          0.49      0.49
Market
Total Gross Comitments                                   36.84        8.38    89.20
Los cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                      82.54        1.77    84.31
Total Comitments now held by IFC                          3.30        1.59      4.89
Total Undisbursod
(including participant's portion)                          -            -        -
s/    Exehnge adjustments account for variation In total gross commitments, less cancellations,
etc., and total commitments now hold by IFC.



a"tN
qeAN "t'
SRI LANKA
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION AND
TRANSMISSION PROJECT
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
PROJEC(-                                                                                                                 5-
MNDER CON-  TO BE  PROJECTj
STRJCTO   AULENIMED  NFW*   BISTING:
W*HDRO PWER STATIONS       99 lC4
1ll  El    S      *   AMD SUSTIONS           ?     2    i
-                 -   -  132 kV UNES
_       _   220 kVUNES
-    aSRCT BOUNDARIES
0    10    2     0     40                                                                                                s
GULF
OF
MANNAR
4  o  o X w Z \w, ~~~~~~DTAL                         7Ht
lb. &*.~~~~o.soI94  ~.                                                  ,   ,    
GULF
OF
~MANAR  lANNARA  
FO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
VW                      ORUGODA i  l  S WALA   6         g             /       
V,                    kV \ CONST                               ANYO             +
GULF~~~~~~~ 3 kV OPERA



sht     SEE INSET FOR DETAIL          1°
K~~~~~~4
NORTHERN                                                           820
SECOND POWER DISTRIBUTION
MILES         1               \t  >  S  ) f >   AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
o 2        'LOCAL AUTHORITY DISTRIBUllON
o 0  io 30     3050 IRH   LOO
KQLOME1US                               C                                      ERT    LCO Operation Area
s 7    1  ~~~CENTRAL I                      gp 
r                        Unomeh.  Proecr Local Authori
Maximum Demand
0 \   urodhapwc   /  b        g   4]                  less thtan 250 kVA
Maximum Demand
above 500 kVA
NCIIORTH    A~J.---   1                                 - 
\0WESTE RNu \
CENT                EASTERN :
OF
,kl,A  P-t >siA, -  4 R   ;
t  (        4'              t + ~~~~~~~U V A  ^a              !,
COLOMBO  g 
\4 J    kSBARAOAMU A                                      - _                                      t
\ t~~E STFER  ,/, < 
National Capital
INOtA                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Selected cities
Pofts
SOUTHERN                 XIvers
.   Gatll. 0QK                                                 *   Interntionial airport
}    SRItP Province boundraries
8?0 e"                                                                   82°



