Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2297 CE
       (Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 20, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2297 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1991, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested
the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Ceylon
Electricity Board (the Board) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the Board the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Board;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Act" means the Ceylon Electricity Board Act,
No. 17 of 1969 of the Borrower, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
      (b)   "the Board" means Ceylon Electricity Board, a
statutory corporation established pursuant to the Act;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Ceylon Electricity Board (the Board),
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Board
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
      (f)   "Local Authorities" means the local authorities
carrying on electricity undertakings.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
37,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in a bank and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
Page  3
1998 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in
each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2001 and
ending June 1, 2031. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Page  4
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Board is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall cause the Board to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of the Board therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Board to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   In order to assist the Board in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit to the Board under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Board,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which shall include, inter alia: (i)
interest at a rate of not less than 12.5% per annum on
the principal amount so relent and withdrawn by the Board
and outstanding from time to time; (ii) repayment over a
period of twenty years, including therein a period of
grace of five years; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to
be borne by the Borrower.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Page  5
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by the Board pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all measures necessary to ensure that on and after
December 31, 1991, total dues for electricity supplied by
the Board shall not exceed three months' billing.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such
action as may be necessary on its part (including, but
without limitation, all necessary authorizations) to
enable the Board to effect such adjustments in its
tariffs as shall be required to comply with the
provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out or cause
to be carried out a program satisfactory to the
Association to redeploy or retire staff of local
authority distribution systems transferred to the Board.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take measures
satisfactory to the Association for the transfer of
distribution systems from local authorities to the Board.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting
                  practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least
                  one year after the Association       has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Credit Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and
                  those for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  six months after the end of each such
                  year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have
                  reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure
Page  6
                  submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   The Board shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Board will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Act or legislation resulting from the
measures referred to in Section 3.08 of the Development
Credit Agreement (Distribution and Transmission Project)
dated August 31, 1988 between the Borrower and the
Association and in Section 3.07 of this Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Board to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of the Board or for the
suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
addi- tional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and the Board;
      (b)   bid documents for the procurement of materials
under Parts A and B.2 of the Project, except for those
referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, have been issued; and
Page  7
      (c)   invitations for the provision of consultants'
services under Parts C.1 and C.2 (a), (b) and (c) of the
Project have been issued.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Board, and is legally
binding upon the Board in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Board
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Board in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 3.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Colombo
            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   SECMINFIN                 FINMIN 21409 or
                   Colombo                   FORAID 21232
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
               INDEVAS                        248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
Page  8
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
                               OF SRI LANKA
                         By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Jochen Kraske
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Equipment and                             100% of foreign
      materials                                 expenditures,
      under Part A of                           100% of local
      the Project:                              expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      (a) Northern             3,370,000
          Province
      (b) Other areas          3,750,000
(2)   Civil works and          1,730,000        70% of local
      erection under                            expenditures
      Part A of the
      Project
(3)   Works including         21,370,000        100% of foreign
      equipment and                             expenditures and
      materials under                           70% of local
      turn-key contracts                        expenditures
      under Part B of
      the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)   Consultants'             3,600,000        100%
      services and
Page  9
      training
(5)   Unallocated              3,680,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              37,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and
      (b)   expenditures under Category (1) (a) unless and
until the Association is satisfied that conditions in the
Northern Province enable the Project to be carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve
the power distribution system; (b) to implement the
transmission expansion program; and (c) to strengthen the
Board's institutional capacity.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:     Distribution
      The rehabilitation and expansion of distribution
systems transferred to the Board from local authorities.
Part B:     Transmission
1.    The construction of about 152 km of 220-kV double
circuit line with only one circuit strung initially, and
construction and augmentation of related substations.
2.    The construction of about 37 km of 132-kV double
circuit line with only one circuit strung initially and
8 km of double circuit lines, and augmentation of related
substations.
3.    The installation of about 70 MVAR compensation
equipment at selected substations.
Part C:     Technical Assistance
      The provision of technical assistance to the Board:
1.    for the proposed 220-kV transmission works and
reactive compensation equipment:
Page  10
      (a)   the preparation of designs and bid documents;
and
      (b)   assistance in bid evaluation and construction
supervision.
2.    for capacity building of the Board:
      (a)   the computerization of its accounts;
      (b)   the establishment of a computerized project
management information system;
      (c)   the upgrading of its financial management
information system; and
      (d)   staff training in utility management.
3.    for preparation of future least cost hydro-power
generation options.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September
30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $2,300,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as
                  the Association shall specify.
Page  11
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Association the documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis
                  of each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
Page  12
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
