Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8301
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
PETROLEUM FUELS SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1296-ZIM)
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department VI
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
boe             -    Barrels of oil equivalent
CAPREF          -    Central African Petroleum Refineries
Government      -    Government of Zimbabwe
INDENI         -    Petroleum Refinery at Ndola, Zambia
MIED            -    Ministry of Industry and Energy Development
NA              -    Not Available
NOCZIM          -    National Oil Company of Zimbabwe
toe            -    Tons of oil equivalent
UDI             -    Unilaceral Declaration of Independence



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA.
Oflt d1 OtrDcttoe..wil
Opuutunai IvAtwIiew
December 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe Petroleum Fuels Supply
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1296-ZIM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Zimbabwe Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1296-ZIM)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
T his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnwce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
2IKBABUE
PETROLEUM FUELS SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1296-ZIM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...... ............................................... 
Evaluation Summary ..... . .. .  ........ .... ..     ..........ii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identityt......t...................1
2. Background . ..............1............... o....... l
3.  Project Objectives and Description... ............        2
Project Objectives            .... o .....                2
Project Description. .... -. ....... .           .        3
4. Project Design and organniation..................          4
5. Project Implementation........... .....   4
Procurement and Audit         .     . .. ..... .          5
Project Costs.  .. . ........... O .. ....                5
Disbursements .........  ..o .............. .  .......    5
6.  Project Results........... o. ....       ......... .      5
Project Objectives .........................              5
7. Project Sustainabi1ityo..     .      ......... ..... .     7
8. Bank Performance .................. .                      8
9. Government Performance .................................. .  8
10. Consulting Services... .........................    .      8
11.  Project Documentation and Data ...................        9
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .............        10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance



Table of Contents (contd.)
Paae No.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORKATION
1.  Related Bank Loans andlor Credits .................                  11
2.  Project Timetable ............................... ..                 11
3.  Loan Disbursement ......................................             12
4.  Project Implementation ........................... .                 12
5.  Project Costs and  Finnncing ............*..............             13
6.  Project Results ......................... -......                    14
7.  Status of Coveants ............................ ...                  15 _
8.  Use of Bank Resources.... ...... ................ o...               16



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
PETROLEUM FUELS SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1296ZIM)
PREFACE
1.        This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum Fuels
Supply Technical Assistance Project in Zimbabwe for which Credit 1296-ZIM in
the amount of US$1.2 million (SDR 1.1 million) was approved on April 13,
1983. After one extension the credit was closed on June 30, 1986, and
undisbursed balance of SDR 207,515.11 was cancelled on March 2, 1987.
2.        This report was prepared at Headquarters and has not utilized
information which would have been made available from a field mission.
Because the major part of the work was completed five years ago, Part II of
the report, which should have been prepared by the Government, is not
presented here.
3.        This PCR is prepared by the Africa Technical Department, Industry
and Energy Division in collaboration with the Southern Africa Department,
Industry and Energy Operet!ons Division.



IL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
PETROLEUM FUELS SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1296-ZIM)
EVALUATION SU4MMARY
Backsround
1.        Zimbabwe imported liquid petroleum fuels from four main sourcess
by rail from The Republic of South Africa; from PersianlArab Gulf transported
from Mozambican ports via the Beira-Umtali pipeline: and from Mozambique and
Zambia. The difficulties of coordinating purchasing arrangements from these
multiple sources, the increasing cost of importing liquid fuels and the
utreliability of the import channels had created an urgent need for Zimbabwe
to identify and develop reliable petroleum fuels supply that would
simultaneously reduce the cost of oil Imports.
2.        As a solution to this problem the Government had considered
reopening the closed refinery at Feruka. This refinery was constructed in
1964 and came on stream in 1965. It has been closed down since 1966 as a
result of the sanctions following the Unilateral Declaration of Independence.
The Government had requested Shell Petroleum Company, one of the seven
members of the Central African Petroleum Refinery Company Limited (CAPREF)
who own Feruka, to comiassion a study on the feasibility and cost of
reopening the refinery. Shell, on behalf of CAPREF engaged an engineering
consulting firm in 1980 to study the feasibility and costs oft (a) restoring
the refinery to its original design and mechanical conditions; (b) adding
modifications required to meet current Shell operating standards; and (c)
upgrading tha laboratory and recommissioning the refinery.  The study was
completed in April 1981 and concluded that it would cost an estimated US$38
million to rehabilitate the refinery and would take 18 months to complete.
3.        The Energy Assessment mission which visited Zimbabwe during June-
July 1981 reviewed this study and found that although it was competently
done, the terms of reference for the study had been inadequate since they did
not require Fluor to evaluate the capability of the existing refinery to meet
market requirements either with respect tos (i) the types of crude oils
generally available, or (ii) the pattern of product demand in Zimbabwe. The
mission concluded that the proposed rehabilitation of the refinery to its
original condition was not an economic option and recommended that a study be
commissioned to determine the most economic alternatives for meeting
Zimbabwe's petroleum requirements in both the short and long run. It is
against this background that the Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical Assistance
Project was identified.



Ob ectives
4.        This was a small technical assistance project aimed at identifying
least economic cost supply option to meet Zimbabwe's imediate post-
independence petroleum needs. The major objectives of the project were to:
(a) prepare a detailed techno-economLc study to evaluate identifiable options
for petroleum products supply available to Zimbabwe and recommend the optimum
system; (b) propose improvements in the procurement, supply, pricing end
distribution of petroleum products; and (c) finance the training of personnel
in key areas in the petroleum fuels industry.
Implementation Experience
5.        The studies component of the project (objectives (a) and (b ) was
done by a firm of consultants. The qualifications, experience, selection and
conditions of employment of the specialized consultants for the study were
evaluated in accordance with Bank guidelines, and their employment was a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
6.        Counterpart participation in the study was small mainly because of
personnel turnover in the Ministry of Industry and Energy Development and
also due to the lack of experience of the counterpart staff in the petroleum
industry.
7.        The training component of the project was not implemented on time
because the Government was unable to release potential trainees until after
1985. Thus. this project component was delayed for two and one half years.
Because of this delay, the Government was unable to draw the full amount of
the credit that was set aside for training and SDR207,515.11 (702 of credit
set asiee for training) was cancelled.
B.        The project was implemented at a unique period in the political
development of Zimbabwe.  The country had just ended a civil war ancd a new
Government had come to power. The new Government was preoccupied in the day
to day operations of an administration with which it had no previous                     mm
experience. It was therefore difficult for the Government to give priority
to the implementation and completion of the project as scheduled and agreed
upon in the Development Credit Agreement.
Results
9.        The consultant's report, which was submitted to the Government,
concluded and made recommendations that Zimbabwe continue to import its
petroleum fuels requirements from abroad and abandon the option of reopening
the mothballed Feruka refinery. Even though the Government took some time to
drop the option of rehabilitating the Feruka refinery, it finally went ahead
and cleaned the Biera-Feruka pipeline and brought it into use as a products
pipeline. Since some of the st.dy's recommendations such as improvements in
petro.eum product procurement, distribution, marketing and pricing were
policy related, their Implementation could not be expected to be
instantaneous and complete; therefore the move of the Government has been
towards a grad,al formulation of policies to facilitate their implementation.



iv
10.       Although the trainting component was delayed and not fully utilized,
still, six Milnistry of Industry and Energy Development (M IED) personnel were
sent abroad for training in the various fields of the petroleum fuels
industry. These individuals have completed their training and returned to
Zimbabwe to their respective assignments.
Project Sustainability
II.       The most significant contribution of the project was the timely
decision making tool it provided to the Government of Zimbabwe for making
rational investment decisions which were besed on economic efficiency and the
geopolitical realities of the region. The consultants' report was highly
technical, voluminous and also difficult to be followed by the Government
staff whose technical capability in the petroleum fuels industry was limited.
The report was deficient in specific methodologies that the Government could
follow and make its own calculations when the need arose.
12.       Although not large, the investment in human capital that resulted
from the training of the six MIED personnel is a positive contribution to the
country that lacked the appropr'ate institutional capability in such skill
areas.
13.       The major project recommendation was that Zimbabwe should continue
to import refined petroleum products rather th-an reopen the local refinery
and refine imported crude oil. The Government has accepted and implemented
this recommendation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.       The project assisted the Government in avoiding expenditure on
reopening a refinery that had become no longer appropriate for its needs.
It's timing was appropriate in the light of options being considered at that
time. It would also have helped if tne consultants had prepared a report
focussed for decision makers, rather than the complex and voluminous document
actually prepared.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
PETROLEUM FUELS SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1296-ZIM)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name:           Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical Assistance
Project
Credit Number: 1296-ZIM
RVP Unit  s       Africa
Country   s        Zimbabwe
Sector    s         Energy
2.   Background
2.01      Zimbabwe's energy base is large, diverse and relatively well
--eloped.  It consists of hydroelectricity, coal and wood fuel.  All
.t-oleum products are currently imported and although geological information
in the country indicates that the presence of petroleum is unlikely, a
limited amount of interest by oil companies is being shown. Ethanol,
produced from molasses and blended with gasoline, meets about 13 percent of
the country's gasoline requirements. Some potential exists for development
of solar and wind energy.
2.02      At the time of project appraisal the hydroelectric potential of the
Zambezi River was estimated to be about 36,900 GWh (9.3 million toe) annually
of which 10.600 E-Wh (2.7 million toe) had already been exploited. Coal
reserves are estimated at about 29 billion tons, of which 2.2 billion tons,
or 7.5 percent, are classified as proven recoverable reserves. Production of
coal was 3.2 million tons per annum or about 2.1 million toe. Fuelwood,
however, was the most important source of energy for both rural and urban
households, supplying about 28 percent of Zimbabwe's total energy demand;
however, Zimbabwe's indigenous woodlands are an uncertain resource in the
eastern part of the country and around the main urban areas where they have
been depleted to a critical level. In order to stem the deforestation trend,
the Government was promoting rural afforestation in these areas. IDA
approved SDR 6.8 million to support such a forestry project on April 28,
1983.
2.03      The large industrial and commercial agriculture sectors make
Zimbabwe the highest per capita energy consuming country in East Africa--
about 5.28 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per capita in 1980. Total energy
consumption amounted to 5,874 thouaand toe or 38.9 million boe in 1980.
Indigenous sources (coal, wood, hydropower, and ethanol) satisfy most of the
energy demand. Nevertheless, 23 percent of energy was imported in 1980, of
which 11.5 percent, i.e. half was petroleum products.



2.04      Liquid petroleum fuels were imported from four main sources:  by
rail from the Republic of South Africa; from Persian/Arab Gulf transported
from Mozambican ports via the Beira-Mutare pipeline; and from Mozambique and
Zambia. The difficulties of coordinating purchaslag arrangements from these
multiple sources, the increasing cost of importing liquid fuels and the
unreliability of the import channels had created an urgent need for Zimbabwe
to identify and develop reliable and cost efficient petroleum fuels supply
that would simultaneously reduce the cost of oil imports.
2.05      As a solution to this problem the Government had considered
reopening the closed refinery at Peruka. Thls refinery was built in 1964 and
came on stream in 1955. As a result of the sanctions following the
Unilateral Declaration of Independence, it was closed down in 1966. The
Government had requested Shell Petroleum Company, one of the seven members of
the Central African Petroleum Refinery Company Limited (CAPREP) who own
Feruka, to commission a study on the feasibility and cost of reopening the
refinery. Shell, on behalf of CAPREF engaged an engineering consulting firm
in 1980 to study the feasibility and costs oft (a) restoring the refinery to
its original design and mechanical condition; (b) adding modifications
required to meet current Shell operating standards; and (c) upgrading the
laboratory and recommissioning the refinery. The study was completed in
April 1981 and concluded that it would cost an estimated US$38 millioj to
rehabilitate the refinery and would take 18 months to complete.
2.06      The Energy Assessment mission which visited Zimbabwe during June-
July 1981 reviewed this study and found that although it was competently
done, the terms of reference for the study had been inadequate since they did
not require the consulting firm to evaluate the capability of the existing
refinery to meet market requirements either with :espect tos (i) the types of
crude oils generally available, or (ii) the pattern of product demand in
Zimbabwe. Also the mission concluded that the proposed rehabilitation of the
refinery to its original condition was not an economic option and recommended
that a study be commissioned to determine the most economic alternatives for
meeting Zimbabwe's petroleum requirements in both the short and long run. It
is against this background that the Petrole-m Fuels Supply Technical
Assistance Project was identified.
3. Project Obiectives and Description
3.01      Prolect Objectivest  The major objectives of the project were to:
a)   prepare a detailed techno-economic study to evaluate identifiable
options for petroleum products supply available to Zimbabwe and
recommend the optimum system;
b)   propose improvements in the procurement, supply, pricing and
distribution of petroleum products; and
c) finance the training of personnel in key areas in the petroleum
fuels industry.



3
3.02      Project Description:  The Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1296-ZI14) had two distinct components: the
studies component [objectives (a) and (b)], and the training component
(objective (c)l.
3.03      International consultants were commissioned for the studies
component of the Project which was scheduled to take eight months to
complete. Within three months from the start of the study, the consultants
were to submit to the Government of Zimbabwe a report outlining their
preliminary findings. It was also proposed to Lave several interim reviews
at key stages of the execution of the study, as agreed with the Government.
3.04      The specific areas to be covered by the study, as outlined in the
scope of work, included the following:
(a) Assess likely future treads in petroleum product requirements in
Zimbabwe to the year 2000 under various assumptions on economic
conditions and on the use of non-petroleum energy.
(b) Forecast the international and regional petroleum price
environment, as input to determine the most economic way of meeting
product demand in Zimbabwe.
ic) Make a critical study of existing provisions for petroleum product
procurement, transportation and marketing.
*d) Review the efficiency with which Zimbabwe product pricing practices
reflect the true cost to the country of product consumption.
Ce) Review and analyze the existing petroleum product specifications in
Zimbabwe and recommend the extent to which these can be modified to
result in net economic benefits.
tf) Identify and carry out a comparative economic analysis of all the
practical and reliable economic options available to Zimbabwe for
meeting its petroleum fuels requirements to the year 2000 and
recommend the optimum option.
3.05      The first four points were treated under a heading entitled "Harket
Study." The last two points were examined under a heading entitled
'Comparative Study of Petroleum Fuels Supply Options' which were included in
the study terms of reference and respecified after review of the consultant's
interim report. These included:
Option *w: Importing of gasoline and diesel oil, and possibly other
compatible product(s) through the existing Beira-Mutare pipeline, and
other products (LPG, bitumen, etc.) by alternative means such as by rail
or by road from reliable transhipment ports or regional refineries.
Option B: Rehabilitation of the CAPREF refinery at Feruka on the basis
of a process configuration designed to meet projected market
requirements over the economic life of a refinery with the flexibility
to process heavier crude oils.



4
Option Ct  Import of refined products from Zambia's INDENI oil refinery
at Ndola.
Option D: Refining of Zimbabwe procured crude oils at Mozambique's
PETROMOC oil refinery at Matola.
3.06      In addition, a fifth option, called Option 0. was included in the
study as a result of the discussion on the preliminary study report with the
World Bank representatives in Washington, in January 1984. This option was a
representation of the supply mode then being used, and was included in the
study to establish a basis for the evaluation of the economics of the
alternative options.
3.07      Furthermore, as required in the terms of reference, the study
included the technical and economic evaluation of two new pipelines. These
were the Mutare-Harare and the Ndola-Harare pipelines.
3.08      For the training component of the project, the Government of
Zimbabwe was to submit to IDA no later than January 31, 1983, names of at
least six Ministry of Industry and Energy Development (MIED) staff selected
for training, including details of their training program and costs and their
qualifications.
4.  Project Desi8n and Organization
4.01      The project concept and design were appropriate and timely.  Had
the Bank not been involved in initiating this study, the Government of
Zimbabwe (GOZ) could have committed heavy investments to rehabilitate the
Feruka refinery, an alternative which the study found to be the least viable
option and one that would not economically or physically meet the country's
demand requirements for petroleum fuels. However, it might have been better
if the consultants had been required to focus on preparing a short report,
and establishing a basis which could be used by the Government to replicate
the findings.
'.  Project Implementation
5.01      The studies component of the project which was carried out by
consultants was completed on time. Even though the Government had agreed to
assist and participate in the study, there was little involvement on the part
of the Government. Counterparts who were assigned by Government of Zimbabwe
to work with the consultants were transferred to other duties at an early
stage of the study. The replacement personnel were unable to actively
participate in the study.
5.02      According to the covenants of the Credit Agreement, Section 3.06,
the Government was to furnish to IDA no later than January 31, 1983 for its
review and approval:  (a) the qualifications of at least six MIED staff
members to be trained under Part H of the project; and (b) details of the
training program (and its cost) to be followed by each staff member. The
training component of the project did not start as planned but was delayed
for two and one half years, as Government was not in a position to identify



5
and release people for training. As a result only soi of the credit that was
set aside for training was utilized by credit closing date.
5.03      Procurement and Audit:  Proposals were invited from an agreed
short-list of firms. The Bank reviewed the evaluation of candidate
consultant firms. MIED complied with the Bank's procurement guidelines and
adhered completely to the selection criteria for evaluation and recruitment
of consultants. These were satisfactorily reviewed and concurred by IDA at
all stages. With respect to Section 3.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement, there is no record in the files to indicate that records were
maintained and sent to the Bank as required by the provisions of that
section.
5.04      Project Costs:  The estimated cost of the Petroleum Fuels Supply
Technical Assistance Project at appraisal was US$1.2 million (SDR 1.1
million). The final cost was SDR 892,484.89 as shown in Table 5 in Part III.
The balance of the undisbursed amount SDR 207,515.11 was cancelled due to the
institutional constraints the Government was facing (para 5.02) on the
selection of participants for the training component of the project.
Expenditures on budget items were appropriate and expenditures were made as
targeted, except for the budget set aside for training.
5.05      Disbursements:  The estimated disbursement of the Credit 1296-ZIM
is given in Table 3 in Part III. Disbursements for training were delayed due
to delays in implementation of the training component of the project. The
original closing date was June 30, 1984; but the credit was clx.,ed only on
June 30, 1986, after one extension. 1/ Disbursements against the credit were
made until March 2, 1987 when an outstandi2g balance of SDR 207,515.11 was
cancelled.
6. Project Results
6.01      Project Objectives:  Overall, the project was successful in meeting
principal objectives of conducting detailed techno-economic studies for
identifying least economic cost petroleum supply option for Zimbabwe.
6.02      The conclusions and recommendations of the consultant's report have
helped the Government to rationalize investment decisions which are based on
economic efficiency and the geopolitical realities of the region. Specific
conclusions of the consultants' report were:
1/ On November 22, 1985, the newly appointed Director General of Energy
informed the Bank mission that he had submitted a paper to the Cabinet
and was awaiting the Government's decision regarding the country's
petroleum supply policy. He submitted that due to a delay in the
Ministry's institutional development, the Government had not been able
to utilize the US$239,454.72 left from the project, and requested IDA to
extend the closing date for an additional 12 months, to ensure the
training of selected staff members. The request was granted.



6
(a) Petroleum Fuels Supply Options
(1) Zimbabwe should continue to import refined petroleum products
instead of reopening the Feruka refinery.
(ii) Importing of refined petroleum products better suits the
structure of Zimbabwe petroleum product demand mix which is
largely dominated by diesel fuel and does not include fuel
oil.
(iii) In the first place Option A (see para 3.05) should be
implemented to rectify and debottleneck the current supply
mode, thus reducing considerably the costs of supply. Main
petroleum products, imported into Zimbabwe through the
existing Beira-Mutare pipeline, should continue to be
transported to Harare by rail.
(iv) Secondly, Zimbabwe should diversify its supply sources by
establishing regular commercial liaisons with Zambia.  The
study showed that the planned expansion of the Ndola refinery
could enable Zimbabwe to benefit in the medium term from a
supplemental and assured source of supply, that could be
developed in parallel with Option A.
(b)  Petroleuwn Product Procurement, Distribution and MarketinR
Ci) The study supported the Government's moves to adopt flexible
spot tendering arrangements for at least a portion of total
product supply.
(ii) Even though the national railways of Zimbabwe could handle
most supply requirements, it was considered strategically
advisable to move some volumes through the road system.
(iii) Oil marketing companies should be encouraged to continue the
process of depot rationalization and to close down service
stations in communities which have an er.essive number of
sales points.
(iv) Consideration should be given to increasing the capacity for
strategic storage of petroleum products and to diversifying
the location of this storage, currently concentrated
principally at Feruka refinery in Mutare.
(c) Domestic Product Pricing
(i) A system for annual review of the National Oil Company of
Zimbabwe (NOCZIM) selling prices should be established based
on a formula which simulates NOCZIM's cost structure.
(ii)  NOCZIM's actual product acquisition and distribution costs
should be monitored on a monthly basis, and price changes



7
should be made if a significant variance develops against the
anticipated costs.
(iii) NOCZIM should continue to sell at an equalized price
throughout the country.
(iv) Oil company margins should be reviewed annually on the basis
of actual industry average costs, including a return on
average capital employed.
(v)  The system of separate "transport recovery' should be
Ciiscontinued and this element should be included in the oil
company margin.
(vi) A self-funded transport equalization fund should be
established to compensate companies delivering to outlying
areas from revenues raised on sales to urban markets.
(vii) Retail margins cau be maintained at current levels for the
time being. However, through licensing and other means, the
Government of Zimbabwe should seek to reduce the number of
service stations in urban areas. The resulting increase in
throughput levels on the remaining stations should al.low a
reduction of retail margins over time. Direct financial
assistance may, however, be required to facilitate the
extension of the service station network in rural areas.
6.03      Even though the Government took some time to decide against
rehabilitating the Peruka refinery, it adopted the study recommendation and
cleaned the Biera-Mutare pipeline to use as a products pipeline. Since some
recommendations such as improvements in petroleum product procurement,
distribution, marketing and pricing were policy related, their implementation
followed a gradual formulation of policies.
6.04      Zimbabwean personnel who participated in the training program have
returned to their respective assignments. If the Government had been in a
posltion to mobilize the staff for training earlier, it could have taken full
advantage of the training component by sending a larger number of individuals
for training.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.01      A significant contribution of the technical assistance project was
its timeliness in providing technical and economic information that was vital
to the Government's decision making process with regards to its choice of
options for meeting the country's petroleum fuels supply requirements. the
Government had considered reopening the closed refinery at Feruka and had
requested Shell to commission a study that would examine the feasibility and
cost of rehabilitating it (para 2.05). In the absence of Petroleum Fuels
Supply Technical assistance project, Zimbabiai may have spent US$38 million in
rehabilitating the refinery without the product mix at economic cost that was
needed in Zimbabwe. However, as noted, the consultant's work was not
prepared in a manner that would permit replicability.



8
7.02      A gradual evolvement of policy on procurement, distribution,
marketing and product pricing will result in further reduction in petroleum
supply cost and benefits the consumer in the long run.
7.03      Additionally, the investment in human capital that was made in
training MIED personnel has a positive impact on an institution that lacked
the technical capabilities in the petroleum fuels supply industry.
8. Bank Performance
8.01      The Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical Assistance Project was
negotiated and implemented at a period when the Government in Zimbabwe had
just come into power. It can be seen from Annex 8 that IDA supervision
ranged from half to three staff weeke per year, which is low by BankJIDA
standards. Allocation of more staff input would have helped broaden the
usefulness of the project. A review of project files show that IDA was
unable to play its traditional role in implementing the training component of
the project, because the Government could not select and release individuals
for training before 1985.
9. Government Performance
9.01      Government accepted and implemented the project recommendations.
It also arranged for the training of the minimum number of individuals agreed
with IDA. Compliance with covenants was adequate.
10. Consulting Services
10.01     In general, the quality of the consultants' report was
satisfactory. The study was completed on time and within the budget. The
study would have been more useful to the client, however if it had: (a)
contained a simple and non-technical comprehensive summary; (b) been less
voluminous; and (c) included methodologies that the Government could use to
analyze implications under changed circumstances, if and when the need arose.
With regard to the contents, there were certain inconsistencies. In the
recommendations dealing with domestic product pricing, for example, the
report recommends that the system of separate "transport recovery" should be
discontinued and this element should be included in the oil company margin.
Later on, it recommends that a self-funded transport equalization fund be
established to compensate companies delivering to outlying areas from
revenues raised on sales to urban markets. This is contradictory to the
preceding recommendation. After the completion of the study, the consultant
presented its findings in a forum where both the Government of Zimbabwe and
the Bank were represented. Except for the application to IDA by Government
for the last instalment payment after the receipt of the consultant's final
report, however, there is no other documentation which would indicate that
the Government had reviewed the report and made comments on lts content
and/or quality and received a satLsfactory final report.



9
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.01     The consultants reports are available.  However, the project files
appear to be incomplete. This may be due to the merger of Energy and
Industry files into Regional files. The Divisional Black Books are also
incomplete probably due to the same reason. Because of the data gaps, it is
difficult to make a detailed commentary on the project. Within the Bank, the
project passed from Industry to Energy and then to Africa region. This lack
of continuity is not conducive to strong project documentation.
.



10
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Government of Zimbabwe was not asked to complete Part II of the
PCR, because the major part 3f the work (the refinery options) was completed
five years ago and the Bank felt that it would now be very time consuming for
the Government to complete this section.



11
PART IIIs STATISTICAL IWORMATION
1. Related Bank loansior credits
N.A.
2.   Proiect Timetable
Date       Date         Date
Item                             Planned     Revised       Actual
- Identification
(Executive Project
Summary)                                                     03/81
- Preparation                                                    07181
- Appraisal Mission                                           09-10181
- Loan/Credit
Negotiations                                                  08182
- Board Approval                                              09/30/82
- Loan/Credit
Signature                                                  11/16182
- Loan/Credit Effectiveness                                   04/13183
- Loan/Credit Closing                06/30/84                 06/30/86
- Loan/Credit Completion                12/83       06184    12/31186



12
S. Loan Dlaburement
- Currency of Expenditure -
Amount      Value       *Repay
W/A  Applileation       Category    Code             USS         Date        SOR Equiv.
1    1                    1           1       17,t00.000     11/07/85'    166,222.84
2    1-A                  1           1      442,000.000      12/16/88      424,108.79
a    2                    2          so         8,846.000     02/2/640        4,695.89
4    4                    1           1       286,200.000     11/09/84'    268,518.75
6    1/86                 2          as        3,290.000      07/10/866      10,890.91
6    2/86                 2          U          5,616.000     09/08/868       6,850.87
7    8/866IS              2          as        6,666.000      09/03/86'       8,221.75
8    8/86                 2          86          640.000      09/05/66'        866.08
9    a                    1          86        4,214.C00      01/02/87*       5,016.44
10    5                    1         144        1,640.000      02/10/67'         798.61
Total for Credit 12f                                                        892,484.86
Source: L"n Departmt, World Bank, Report ID LOAlOSS (CROR170E), Marbch 1987
Appralsal estimae        - USI.2 mlion n
Actual                   - US6614,808J60
Actual as X of etimte   - 76S
Date of final dlebursemt - 02/10/87
4. Prolect Iplementation
Indicator        App-alsl Etimate                    Actual (or PCR Etimate)
Indicator 1      Carry out a techno-economlc         Study completed on time.
study of petroleum fuels
supply options.
Indicator 2      TraIn at least six MIED             Six MIED perronnel were
personnel In key areas In          trained after a delay of
the petroleum Industry.             two yers.



- 13 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                Actual 1/
Local  Foreign  Total      Local23 Foreign  Total
-------US$ '000------      -------US$ '000--------
Demand, Supply Projections       12       50    62
Review of Existing Procure-
ment, Pricing, Marketing
and Transportation &
Distribution Arrangements   4         63    67
Identification & Evaluation of
Options for Petroleum
Supply                      58       661   719
Legal & Equity Aspects           12       70    82
Subtotal                  86      844   930
Project Unit                     40       50    90
Training                          0      100   100
Base Cost                  126       994 1,120
Physical Contingencies           20      114   134
Price Contingencies             16        92   108
Total Project Cost             162    1,200 1,362                 914,308
11 Estimate cost at completion - calculated from data obtained from World Bank
Loan Department - SDR 1.0 - US$1.090909.
2/ Local cost - data not available.
B. Proiject Financing
Planned
(Loan/Credit)         Revised            Final
Source       (USS)              (US$)             (US$)          Comments
IDA       1.2 million        1.2 million      0.914 million
Comments:
(a) The Government was not able to take timely action to take advantage of
the full loan amount allotted for training.
(b) No data exists in the file to determine if domestic resources were used
for funding even though US$162,000 was set aside as local costs at



- 14 -
6.   Prolect Results
A.   Direct Benefitss    Not Applicable
D.   Economic Imvacts    Not Applicable
C.   Financial Imwacts   Not Applicable
D.  Studies
Purpose as defined        Status              Impact of Study           !
at Appraisal
Studies 1      Perform techno-economic    Completed           (a) assisted
study to evaluate                             Government in
petroleum fuels supply                        selecting cost
optionsa  and propose                         effective
improvement in the                            supply sources.
procurement, supply,                          (b) make
pricing and distribution                      structural
of products                                   improvements in
the
distribution
network.
Studies 2      Training of at least six   Completed           This was an
key personnel in the                          investment in
petroleum industry.                           h1-an capital.
Trained
personnel have
returned and
are working in
the ineustry.
Comments:
The beneficial impact of the studies would have been greater had the
Government been able to act earlier both in training personnel as well as
implementing the recommendations presented in the co-maultant's report.



7.   Staus os Coen
Brief Decriptlon              leb1es
of Coveantn                 Applicable       Compliane            Remarks
Establish steering committee        LAS.U (4)         Too              Governmunt has
composed .t representatives                                            established
go  vow n_*  ppropae                                                 steering coemittee.
lninry.
Establish a Projet Volt             LA..O(b)          VW
wIthin IM  headed by thu
Director of Energ
Department.
Employ cornultants to eorry         L..UL ()          Y"
out project conslitnt with
IDA guideline.
Fully cooperate wlth                LA.S.08(o)        Not too y        Counterparts were
consultante In the                                                     change at an early
performnc of their                                                     a         othe
services.                                                              PO
During proJoct poriodt              L     8.A.O(e)    Forbil I          Gove.rnmnt was
excthange ,ns w1lith IDA so                                            reluctant to
receendtions; consult                                                  discuss
with IDA on study                                                       implemntation o.
conclus on  and t ak                                                   consultent'S
measures for tmpl_Oetalen.                                              ro      dIons and
concluslono.
Furnish audit accounts              LAJ.8.*()         Uskown           No reords of
within six  mot  of the end                                             compliance.
of Fl (Deemer 81).
Prepre *ndt turnish to IDA a        LA.S.06(4)        Unknown          No records of
report on the execution of                                             compllance.
th. project, its cos andt
tene its derived, the
performnce by the BrrOer
and IDA andth
accomplishment Ot the
purposes of the credit.
No later than January 8l,           LA.S.S            Tes               The borrower acted
108M the Borrowr furnish to                                            on this covenant
IDA for Its reiew and                                                  after a delay ot
approval qualitficatio  of                                             tee years.
MIED staf selected for
tralnng; detailo ot
trainIng progrm and cot.



- 16 -
8.    Us of Bonk Resourc
A. Staff Insutt
Stage  of            nth   No. of      Staff                     Prfornqo           Type of
Proj et Cycle      Year    Persono   Weeks 1/  Specialty          RatinW3          Problem
Throuch Anora lol
Appraisal           1962       s        0.4       Aest. to VP
0.9       Engineer
7.0       Financial Anal.
Loan Prep.          1982       a        2.4       Enginer
2.2      Financial Anal.
4.0       Lean Officer
Loan Nfgotiation   1908        2         .8       Deputy Div. Chief
.6      Engineer
Loan Procesong      1c88       2         .1       Economlit
2.0       LoAn Officer
Supervision
Project Adinist.  188          2         .J       Loan Officer
.1      Oper. Aest.
Supervision         1088       2         .J       Deputy Div. Chief
1.8      Enginer
Project Admin.      1S4       2         .1       Econoelot
.5      Loan Offtcer
Supervision         1084       2         .1       XXX
2.7      Engineer
Project Admin.      18t       1         .1       Sr. Loan Otfr.
Supervision         1085       1        1.?       Engineor
Project Admin.      1960       1         .2       Not known
Supervision         1086       1         .4       Not knwn
Project Admin.      1987       1        1.0       Not known
PCR                 1987       1        1.8       Consultant
Supervision         1086       1         .2       Not knoen
3J  Date are Inadequate to spit staff weeks spent In the fiold and at headquarters.
2/ Since the 590 form were not maintained properly It Is not posslble to have a
perormnce rating.



