CREDIT NUMBER 1296 ZIM
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical Assistance Project)
between
ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November /6, 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1296 ZIM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,   dated  November /,    1982,  between   ZIMBABWE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter
called the Project);
(B) any financing so provided by the Association would be
refunded, if the Association so requests, out of the proceeds of
any credit by the Association or loan by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development which may later be granted to
the Borrower for the purpose of improving petroleum fuels supply
to Zimbabwe; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to make a development credit to the Borrower on
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.- The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional term "MIED" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and
Energy Development.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to one million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in, this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on Febi tary 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 1993, and ending
August 1, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MIED with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall   provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, but without limitation to it, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain:
(a) a Steering Committee composed of representatives of the
Borrower's appropriate ministries and other relevanT parties as
MIED may determine, which shall assist the Project Unit and the
consultants referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
Section 3.03 respectively in the carrying out of the Project; and
(b) within MIED a Project Unit which shall be headed by its
Director of Energy Development and shall include an energy
planner who shall act as Project Coordinator on a full-time basis
and technical support staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment


﻿-4-
shall be satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of the consultants referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section or grant any material extension of
time or any approval of sub-contracts or modification thereof, or
suspend payments under the contract with the said consultants
without prior concurrence of the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) fully cooperate with such con-
sultants in the performance of their services for the Project;
(ii) take all reasonable measures within its power to facilitate
their work; and (iii) make available to them all information
relevant to the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to
furnish to the Association copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof,
plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of
costs, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(e) With respect to the evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the docu-
ments referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of the Project, the Bor-
rower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views on said recommendations and con-
clusions; and
(ii) upon completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
consult with the Association on all such recom-
mendations   and   conclusions  and   on  measures
intended to be taken by the Borrower in respect of
their implementation.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records, including separate accounts, adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices, the    expenditures incurred by the
Borrower for the Project and the use of the proceeds of the
Credit therefor and shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect any relevant records and documents.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have such accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year, the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)   Upon the award by thie Borrower of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may.be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31,
1983, furnish to the Association for its review and approval: (i)
the qualifications of the MIED staff members to be trained under
Part H of the Project; and (ii) details of the training programs
(and their costs) to be followed by each such staff member.


﻿-6 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Steering Committee and the Project Unit shall have
been established in accordance with Section 3.02 of this
Agreement; and
(b) consultants shall have been employed in accordance with
Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The date February 10, 1983, 1982 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance, Economic Planning and
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning
and Development
Private Bag 7705
Causeway
Harare, Zimbabwe
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                              MINFIN 2141 ZW
Harare                              Harare


﻿-7I
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423  (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ZIMBABWE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                     SDR Equivalent)
(1) Consultants' Services                              810,000
(2) Scholarships                                        90,000
(3) Unallocated                                        200,000
TOTAL     1,100,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimsted shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in


﻿-9-
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no ex-
penditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
selecting the system of petroleum fuels supply to Zimbabwe that
minimizes costs and ensures reliability and security.
It includes the following Parts:
(A) Review of the demand and supply of petroleum products
and the impact of other sources of energy on demand and
preparation of demand and price forecasts up to the
year 2000.
(B) Review of existing refined petroleum procurement prac-
tices in order to recommend possible changes in such
practices and identification of bottlenecks in existing
channels of transportation of petroleum products, in-
cluding a price breakdown for each type of petroleum
product.
(C) Review of the organizational institutional framework
and physical facilities for marketing and distribution
of petroleum products and preparation of a breakdown of
consumption by region or major consumption centers.
(D) Review of petroleum pricing structure and recommenda-
tion of a mechanism for ensuring that retail prices of
refined  petroleum   products  reflect   full  economic
costs.
(E) Review   and  analysis  of  existing  petroleum  product
specifications in Zimbabwe to determine modifications
in such specifications which would result in net econo-
mic benefits.
(F) Identification and evaluation of all practical and
reliable economic options for meeting Zimbabwe's petro-
leum fuels requirements to determine thc optimum op-
tion.
(G) Identification of legal issues associated with each
option and preparation of proposals for resolving such
issues in respect of the optimum option.


﻿- 11 -
(H) Overseas training for up to six MIED staff members in
petroleum fuels procurement and in the preparation and
implementation of petroleum fuels projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 2.
F E 7
FOR SECRETARY


