Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA'. 3'-.UCKP
Report No. P-4377-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 14.0 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
STRLICTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
August 11, 1986
This document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not oLherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoTizalion.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit       =          CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00              =         CFAF 360
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Square Kilometer (km2)       =         0.39 Square Mile
1 Hectare                      =         2.47 Acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB                African Development Bank
BADEA               Banque Arabe pour le Developpemenz Economique de
l'Afrique (Arab Bank for Economic Development of
Africa)
CAADE               The National Debt Agency
CAM                 Country Assistance Management
CAPMEA              Centre d'Appui aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises et a
I'Artisanat (Support Center for Small and
Medium Scale Enterprises)
CAR                 Central African Republic
CCCE                 Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
EEC                 European Economic Community
ONF                 National Office of Forests
SMEs                Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
UDEAC                Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
(The Central African States Customs Union)
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
Parastatal and State Companies :
ACCF                The River Transport Agency
ADECAF              The Coffee Zone Development Agency
CAISTAB             The Agricultural Price Stabilisation Fund
CENTRAPALM          The Oil Palm Agency
CND                 The National Diamond Office
Inter-RCA           The Domestic Airline
SEGA                The Abattoir
SICPAD              Soap and Oils Company
SOCADA              The Principal Rural Development Agency
SOCATRAF            The River Transport Company
SOCEFI              The Forestry Parastatal
SIRIRI              Insurance Company
TOCAGES             The Petroleum Import and Distribution Company
UCATEX              The Textile Company



FOR OMCiUL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page
Credit Summary
PART I - THE ECONOMY                                                  2
Background .........................................             2
Through Stabilization to Structural Adjustment.....              3
PART IT - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM              5
The Adjustment Strategy             ..                           5
A. Macroeconomic Management .......................              6
B. Agriculture ..............., 11
C. Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises and Mining               16
D.  Civil Service and Public Administratio, ........            18
E. The Parapublic Sector .........................              20
PART III - ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL, AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF
THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                    22
The Bank's Medium-Term Projections ................             22
The Medium-Term Financial Strategy ................             26
The Social Impact .................................             28
Benefits and Risks ................................             29
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS .........................             31
Financing ..................,,,,,.31
Monitorable Actions ...............................             32
Management and Administration of the SAL Program..              34
Coordination with the IMF .........................             34
Procurement, Disbursements, and Retroactive
Financing .......................................             34
Counterpart Funds .................................             35
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY  .......                 35
PART V - RECOMMENDATION. .........................                   36
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pate
ANNEXES
Annex I:      Social Indicators ................    .......                 37-38
Annex II:    Status of Bank Group Operations                                   39
Annex III:   Tables 3A1:  National Accounts 1981-1990.....                     40
3A2:  Financial Operations of .
of Government         .         9*               41
3B: External Trade .....42
3C1:  Balance of Payments.                               43
3C2: External Debt 1981-1990.                            44
Annex IV:    Supplementary Loan Data Sheet.                                  45-46
Annex V:      Statement of Development Policy         .       .47-72
Annex VI: Matrix .73-79
Annex VII:   The Without Adjustment Scenario...                                80
Annex VIII: Use of IMF Ordinary Resources .81
Map IBRD 19077



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrower:      Central African Republic
Amounts:       Special Facility for Aid to Sub-Saharan Africa Credit: SDR
14 million; IDA Credit: SDR 12.3 million.
Terms:         Standard IDA.
Description
of Credits:    The Credits would support Government's comprehensive
adjustment program for addressing the key macro-economic and
sectoral issues facing the CAR over the medium term. This
program is described in the Government's Statement of
Development Policy - 1986 to the Bank which contains
specific, dated, monitorable actions (Annex V). The
objective of the program is to help Government achieve its
medium-term goal of a self-sustained 4% annual real GDP
growth rate through: a) an agricultural-led growth strategy
based on comparative advantage and progressive opening up of
the economy to the interplay of market forces; b) the
retrenchment of the public sector and its reorientation to
activities for which it is best suited; c) the mobilization
of public and private resources to increase domestic
savings; and d) a financial strategy designed to mobilize
resources sufficient to support the program and directed
towards Plan priorities. To achieve these objectives,
detailed action programs for: macro-economic management;
agriculture; forestry; small and medium-scale enterprises;
mining; public administration, and parapublic enterprises
would be implemented over the next sixteen months. These
action programs are detailed in Annex VI. The foreign
exchange provided under the Credits would be used to finance
essential imports.
Risks          The main risks associated with the proposed operation are
the uncertainty of world prices for the main export
commodities, a weaker than expected response from the
private sector and the possibility that the Government's
implementation capacity may be overtaxed by the
comprehensive nature of the reform program.
Estimated
Disbursements: The Credits would be disbursed in two tranches, the first,
for US$12 million equivalent, upon effectiveness and the
second, equivalent to US$18 million, upon satisfactory
overall implementation of the program. A performance review
would be carried out in April 1987.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT  CLEDIT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION
AND A SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 14.0 MILLION
TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 12.3 million (US$14.0 million equivalent) and a
Credit of SDR 14.0 million (US$16.0 million equivalent) from the Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (SFA), established by resolution number IDA
85-1 of May 21, 1985. on standard IDA terms to the Central African Republic
to support the Government's structural adjustment program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum (Report No. 5332-CA) was distributed to
the Board in August 1985. The report which follows is based on the
findings of this and other missions, and contains updated country data
derived from the recently improved national accounts.
Background
3.        The CAR, a landlocked country of 623,000 km2 in the heart of
Africa, has a population of 2.6 million growing at an annual rate of 2.5
percent and a low pcpulation density of 4 inhabitants per square kilometer.
About 70 percent of the population live in rural areas. With a per capita
income of US$270 in 1984, the CAR belongs to the group of least-developed
countries. Agriculture, including forestry, is the mainstay of the economy
and accounted for about 41 percent of GDP factor cost in 1984, mining and
manufacturing account for about 11 percent, utilities and construction for
4 percent, and services for 44 percent.
4.        The CAR's landlocked position, difficult transportation condi-
tions, sparsely populated area, a limited domestic market, and weak human
resource base are the principal constraints to the development of its
economy. Bottlenecks in the routes to the sea through the Congo (rivern
rail) and through Cameroon (road/rail) substantially raise production and
inventory costs and reduce the CAR's export competitiveness.
5.        Serious mismanagement of the economy in the 1970s resulted in a
decline of output and of per capita incomes between 1978 and 1982. Falling
real producer prices for cash crops, excessiye state intervention in
virtually all economic activities including the food crop sector, ineffi-
cient rural development agencies, and rapidly deteriorating extension



- 3 -
services and rural roads led to a reduction of agricultural production.
Adverse external factors also contributed to the downturn as world prices
for cotton dropped at an average annual rate of almost 12 percent in real
terms between 1976 and 1979, and world coffee prices in real terms fell to
two thirds of their high levels in 1976/77. Unsound public investments,
excessive expansion of the civil service, creation of unviable public
enterprises and expensive borrowing led to rapidly increasing budgetary
deficits which, together with the accumulation of arrears in public debt
service, provoked substantial declines of both official aid and private
foreign investment. During this period, public investments averaged only
some 7 percent of GDP, and the latter declined at annual average of 2
percent between 1978 and 1982. An almost complete dilapidation of the
country's infrastructure and disintegration of the public administration
accompanied this decline.
6.        The short-lived government that succeeded the Bokassa regime in
late 1979 initiated an emergency program for 1980-81 to deal with the most
urgent problems of the economy. The emphasis of this program was on the
rehabilitation of infrastructure and resulted principally in an improvement
of the primary road network. The economlc situation continued to
deteriorate, however, leading to some social disorder and political
instability.
Through Stabilization to Structural Adjustment
7.        Serious attempts at promoting the economic recovery of the CAR
began early in 1982 under the leadership of President Kolingba, who took
control of the country in September 1931. This Government's stabilization
and recovery efforts have been supported by one year IMF stand-bys in 1983
and 1984, and an 18-month stand-by approved in 1985 covering the period
July 1985 - December 1986. Bank and Fund staff have maintained close
contacts in the discussion leading to these arrangements. Under the 1984
stand-by, producer prices for cotton and coffee were increased for the
second consecutive year, while electricity tariffs, gasoline prices and
post and telecommunication charges were adjusted upwards. Civil service
and parastatal wages were frozen and government employment was reduced
following a survey undertaken by Bank-financed consultants. Six state
enterprises were liquidated and SOCADA's payroll was reduced. In the
context of the 1985 stand-by, further efforts were made towards removing
key constraints in agriculture, improving resource allocation while
concurrently continuing with financial stabilization. In its drive to
address the problems of its parapublic sector and to further reduce
pressures on budgetary resources, the Government in 1985 also initiated
steps to privatize five enterprises.
8.        Between 1981 and 1985, cotton producer prices were doubled in
nominal terms, fertilizer subsidies reduced, and the performance of the
main rural development ageiLcy (SOCADA) was Improved by reducing its over-
head costs and labor force, sub-contracting cotton transport to the private
sector, and the closing of a number of ginneries. Consequently, cotton
production and average yields more than doubled from 22,600 tons in 1981 to



- 4 -
46,300 tons in 1985, and from 276 kg/ha to 572 kg/ha, respectively. Food
crop production also rose in line with cotton production, and in response
to the Government's decision to reduce its intervention in food crop
marketing and to the reappearance of consumer goods in rural areas.
Official diamond and gold exports increased following a substantial reduc-
tion in export taxes in 1983. However, between 1983 and 1985, because of
the drought in 1983/84, exports declined at 3.8 percent per annum in real
terms. Imports increased by only some 0.5 percent per year in real terms
during 1983-85 due mainly to a decline in consumer goods imports, and the
current account deficit remained at around 15 percent of CDP. Between 1981
and 1985, real CDP and agricultural value added have risen, despite the
decline induced by the drought in 198314, at an average annual rate of 1.6
percent and 3.4 percent, respectively.
9.        Progress has also been achieved in the area of public finance.
Budgetary deficits have been drastically reduced from about 5.0 percent in
1981 to an estimated 0.6 percent in 1985 (before amortization of public
debt) due both to increased revenues and improved expenditure control.
Between 1981 and 1985, budgetary revenues have risen in nominal terms by
67 percent, or from 11.5 to 13.8 percenz of GDP, due to several tax in-
creases, reductions in customs duty exemptions and strengthened tax collec-
tion. On the expenditure side, wage and salary payments declined from 87
percent of budgetary revenue in 1981 to 59 percent in 1985. Nevertheless,
the public sector continues to be burdened with excessively high personnel
costs which severely limit government resources available for operational
and developmental purposes.
10.       The Government's financial stabilization efforts have succeeded
in alleviating the inherited public debt burden. At the end of 1985. the
CAR's external debt amounted to US $308 million, or about 45 percent of
estimated GDP. Following a debt rescheduling at a Paris Club meeting in
November 1985, at which the CAR received debt relief of US$14 million for
payments due between July 1985 and December 1986, external debt service
obligations fell to US$28.2 million in 1985 and US$24.9 million in 1986
from an average US$42.2 before debt rescheduling. The Debt Service Ratio
at end 1985 was 19.1 percent and 11.2 percent respectively, including and
excluding IMF repayments.
11.       The CAR economy has responded positively to the recovery measures
of the Government's program. There has been a slight resumption in per
capita income growth over the past two years. Over the past decade, the
economy has, however, performed well below its potential as GDP growth has
remained marginal, export growth limited, and domestic savings negative.
In spite of significant progress towards stabilizing public finances, the
CAR does not, after public debt service, contribute to financing its public
development expenditures. These are fully financed by external donors.
12.       The measures that President Kolingba's Government has taken over
the past two years demonstrate its commitment to economic recovery and its
political will to pursue programs of economic reform. Moreover, the
Government has realized that the piecemeal approach pursued in the past was



- 5 -
insufficient for solving the CAR's development problems. The creation in
1984 of the Economic and Financial Coordination Committee ag the Govern-
meat's key body to prepare and coordinate policy reform was an important
initial step toward integrated and comprehensive reforn. Moreover, the
transformation of the military Government in November 1985 into a civilian
one appears to have strengthened both the technical capacity to manage the
economy and the procedures for reaching a policy consensus within Govern-
ment. The Government recognized the need for a stronger, more coherent and
comprehensive program of policy reform designed to promote sustainable
growth by exploiting the country's growth potential, including its substan-
tial and well diversified natural resource base. Austerity, thile neces-
sary in the short-term, would not be enough to achieve this.
13.       The Government has consequently over the past nine months been
undertaking a fundamental reassessment of its development strategy. With
substantial technical assistance financed by IDA, the Government has been
defining strategies for all sectors of the economy, elaborating a
medium-term public investment program and preparing a Development Plan for
the five-year period 1986-90. A preliminary draft of this plan document
was discussed with key donors, including the Bank, in March '986; the Plan
is being revised and will be presented at a UNDP Round Table in late 1986
or early 1987.
14.       The Government's draft five-year Plan, which outlines key macro-
economic and sector strategies and the major policy directions of its
medium-term economic and financial adjustment program, provides the broad
and comprehensive road-map of the policy directions the Government is
taking to achieve its medium-term objective of re-establishing sustainable
per capita Income growth. This strategic framework is fundamentally sound
and focuses on adjustment with growth.
15.       Following endorsement of the adjustment program by the Cabinet on
Febxuary 7, 1986, a detailed program including monitorable actions outlined
in the Statement of Development Policy (SDP) was prepared by Government
(Annex V). An inter-ministerial committee consisting of the Ministers of
Plan, of Economy and Finance, Commerce and Industry, Rural Development, the
Civil Service and the High Commissioners for Small and Medium-Scale
Enterprises for Parastatal Enterprises and for Public Administration
drafted the SDP. The document was intensively reviiwed by the Council of
Ministers and has the unanimous support of the Cabinet. It was signed by
the President of the Republic on July 26, 1986 (Annex V).
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
The Adjustment Strategy
16.       The Government's medium-term objective is to achieve a
self-sustained GDP growth rate of 4.0 percent per annum.



- 6 -
17.       To achieve this objective, the Government has developed and
adopted:
(i) an agricultural-led growth strategy based on comparative
advantage and a progressive opening up of the economy to the
interplay of market forces;
(ii) a systematic policy of retrenchment of the public sector;
(iII)  a program for the mobilization of public and private re-
sources in order to increase the domestic savings rate; and
(iv) a financial strategy designed to mobilize resources in
amounts sufficient to support the program, on terms that are
concessional and in directions dictated by the priorities
defined in the Plan.
18.       The implementation of this structural adjustment strategy
requires a series of short- and medium-term measures at both the
macro-economic and .aectoral levels. These actions will be taken in the
following areas:
A. Macro-economic Management
B. Agriculture
C. Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises and Mining
D. Civil Service and Public Administration
E. The Parapublic Sector
A. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
19.       Medium-term Framework.  The Government recognizes that the period
of crisis management and emergency measures to stabilize the economy has
now passed. The draft Development Plan 1986-1990, which will serve as a
coherent medium-term framework to ensure consistency between the macro-
economic and sectoral objectives, strategies and policy instruments is
being revised. The Government will finalize the Development Plan by
September 1986 and present it to a UNDP Round Table currently scheduled for
late 1986/early 1987.
20.       Macroeconomic and rEnancial Coordination.  The Government had
recognized since 1984 the neea to improve its management of the economy by
strengthening its policy formulation capacity, through closer interminis-
terial coordination, the introduction of improved planning tools and
procedures, better data bases and more effective institutions.
21.       The creation of the Economic and Financial Coordination Committee
in May 1984 institutionalized a permanent high level inter-ministerial



- 7 -
consultative process of policy formulation. A group of senior civil
servants, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Economy and Finance was
established to supervise the implementation of the stabilization program.
Increasingly, the Government has moved towards establishing a policy
consensus before initiating actions. To further strengthen its management
process, the Government will:
(1) introduce a system of three year rolling public investment
programs (Loi-Programme) by March 1987 starting with the
1987-89 period and consistent with the medium-term
framework, distinguishing clearly between central government
public investments and those of the parapublic sector;
(iI) develop and introduce immediately a system of flov charts by
sector (Schema de Coherence) outlining macro-sectoral
interactions and the sequencing of actions by specific
agencies to ensure analytical and administrative coherence
in the pursuit of agreed objectives;
(iii) introduce in the Ministry of Plan by June 1987 an improved
system for evaluating and identifying projects in order that
they may correspond to the agreed upon priorities, have an
appropriate rate of return, and be justified in terms of
recurrent costs and debt service burden;
(iv) prepare a 1987 Loi-de-Finance which will integrate physical
and financial public Investment programming by reinforcing
the coordination between the Ministries of Plan and Finance
so that the Loi-Programe will include both domestic coun-
terpart and foreign investment funds into its capital
expenditure component (December 1987);
(v) strengthen planning and public expenditure programming
capabilities in particular through the provision of addi-
tional technical assistance to the core Ministries of
Economy and Finance, Plan, and Commerce and Industry; and
(vi) create a high level inter-ministerial committee, (see para
88) to supervise the implementation of its adjustment
program.
22.       Investment.  The level of investment since the early 1980s has
been abnormally low. The Government is aware that the achievement of a
4 percent GDP growth is predicated on increasing substantially the share of
total investuent in GDP over the Plan period. Private investment has not
been forthcoming due to an unfavorable policy environment, including
price controls, import restrictions and undue state intervention in the
marketing process. Public investment, on the other hand, has suffered from
a lack of resources induced Initially by macroeconomic mismanagement in the
1970s and subsequently by the requirements of stabilization. As an
integral part of its development strategy, the Government wishes



- 8 -
simultaneously to correct the imbalance in the public to private investment
ratio and to increase their respective shares to GDP. This is necessary
because past financial constraints have led to the progressive dilapidation
of existing infrastructure and to postponing new investments required to
open up the country.
23.       Ratioualizing Public Investment.  The Government attaches high
priority to improving the efficiency of its public investment program and
reducing its share on total investment over the medium-term. Moreover, it
intends to concentrate its efforts in developing social and physical
infrastructure while disengaging itself from the directly productive and
trade sectors. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government
intends to take firm action to rationalize public investment with respect
to size, sectoral allocations and project composition. It will therefore:
(i) increase the share of public investment in GDP from about
10 percent in 1985 to about 12 percent in 1990;
(ii) formulate its 1987 public investment program in line with
the above target, which implies a rate of growth of public
investment cf approximately 8 percent in real terms
(December 1986);
(iii) prepare the sector allocations for its 1987 investment
program in accordance with the priorities and requirements
of structural adjustment, with 75 percent being allocated to
the rural development and infrastructure sectors (December
1986); and
(iv) review with the Bank and other key donors those major
projects where designs and returns could be improved,
including the OUAKA sugar complex, the coffee development
project in the Center Western zone, the village Palm Oil and
M'Bali river hydro projects.
24.       Stimulating Private Investment.  A central element of the Govern-
ment's structural adjustment program is to improve the policy environment
within which the private sector must operate. To date, private investment
has remained at the very low level of 2.5 percent of GDP and its ratio to
total investment is about 1:5. The Government realizes that this can only
be a slow and difficult process as it requires changes in policies, insti-
tutions and attitudes. It intends to give clear signals to the private
sector by retrenching public activity to its areas of comparative advantage
and by liberalizing pricing and trade. In its Statement of Development
Policy, the Government clearly states that:
(i) it will strive to achieve a 4 percent share of private
jnvestment to GDP by 1990, representing an improvement in
the private to total investment ratio to 1:4;



- 9 -
(ii)  it will introduce improved data collection procedures and
strengthen its capacity to measure the level of private
investment before the start of the 1987 exercise; and
(iii)  it will revise the legal texts regulating private sector
activity in order to eliminate by March 1987 the existing
administrative barriers to improve private sector expansion.
25.       Price and Trade Incentives.  The Government is now committed to
liberalizing its economic system as a corollary to its policy of public
sector retrenchment. Thus, the Government intends to:
(i)  liberalize pricing policy by abolishing progressively all
price controls on locally produced goods and all fixed
intermediation margins on imported goods, exceptions being
made for certain basic necessities where there is no
competition (Karch 1987);
(ii) liberalize the import regime by eliminating import quotas
(jumelage system) and import licenses, and replacing them
with an appropriate tariff system (January 1987);
(iii)  reinforce customs control procedures and personnel;
(iv) undertake a study of competition by January 1987 among
importers with emphasis on possible entry barriers (skills,
credit, information);
(v) substitute the export authorization system by an export
declaration system (January 1987); and
(vi)  streagthen the Ministry of Commerce by providing the appro-
priate technical assistance to help it fulfill its new role
of promotion rather than control. As a first step, an
expert is to be recruited by October 1986, financed under
the ongoing IDA Second Technical Assistance Project.
26.       Domestic Resource Mobilization.  While the supply response
measure3 are expected to lead to increases !a income and eventually to
savings, it is in the sphere of the state budget and public enterprises
where measures aimed at domestic resource mobilization could be successful
in the shorter term. With regard to fiscal revenues, the Government will
strive to reach the appropriate level of coverage for a given tax rate in
order to encourage economic activity while discouraging tax evasion and
fraud. With respect to expenditures, the Government will pursue its
stabilization efforts currently supported by an IMF program. In the
context of a tight monetary policy, improvements in the fiscal balance
could also contribute to a greater availability of resources for the
private sector. Thus, in its Statement of Development Policy, the
Government commits itself to increasing the savings rate by:



- 10 -
(i) achieving a Government savings to GDP ratio of about 2.5
percent In 1990 with interim targets of 1.3 and 1.6 percent
for 1986 and 1987;
(ii) increasing budgetary receipts by 10-11 percent in nominal
terms and placing a 5-6 percent growth ceiling on nominal
budgetary expenditures in 1986 and 1987; and
(iii) strengthening tax collection including procedures, adminis-
tration, and institutions.
27.       CAISTAB.  The Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund is funded by
indirect taxes on the country's principal agricultural export crops. Its
primary functions are to stabilize producer prices in the face of wide
fluctuations in corresponding export prices, to exert quality control and
supervise marketing arrangements, and to provide financial support to
institutions supporting agricultural development. During the 1970s,
CAISTAB began to function primarily as an agricultural taxation agency and
its revenues were used for purposes unrelated to promoting agricultural
production or stabilization. Moreover, there appears to have been little
accountability on the use of CAISTAB retained revenues from coffee, which
in the period 1980-84 were equivalent to 9 percent of total budgetary
revenues. As a result of this lack of control and accountability, CAISTAB
has not been able recently to provide adequate and prompt support to SOCADA
in the face of collapsing world market prices for cotton. To prevent the
recurrence of such a situation, the Government has decided to initiate a
program of reform in two stages. The first stage includes establishing
guidelines on the use of resources by:
Ci)  providing complete transparency of accounts beginning with
the 1986/7 fiscal year including the provision of CAISTAB's
preliminary budget in August 1986, followed by quarterly
reports;
(ii) the establishment of a technical reserve fund by March 1987
(10 percent of the coffee marketing margin in 1986/7 and 20
percent for the remaining years of the Plan);
(iii) the allocation for 1986/7 of no more than 25 percent of
receipts to financing agricultural programs and of the
remaining 65 percent (55 percent in the following four
years) primarily to stabilization purposes;
(iv) integration of CAISTAB's investment financing into the
public investment program beginning with the 1987
Loi-Programme; and
(v)  a review, in the light of the recent decline in cotton
prices, of the contractual arrangements between SOCADA and
CAISTAB.



- 11 -
The second stage consists of a fundamental review of the role, organiza-
tion, procedures and statutes of CAISTAB before March 1987. The results of
this review will be discussed with IDA and recommendations for further
reform, acceptable to the Association, will be introduced at the start of
CAISTAB's 1987/88 fiscal year.
28.       External Debt Management.  After three external debt rescheduling
exercises during the last five years, the Government is intent on avoiding
rescheduling in 1987. Following the November 1985 Paris Club agreements,
there seems to be little scope left at this time for rescheduling
arrangements of a significant magnitude.
29.       The Government's actions can be subdivided into two areas,
namely, the management of the debt itself including time profile, terms,
debt service and avoidance of arrears, and the institutional improvements
at the national debt agency, CAADE. The Government therefore will:
(i)  refine its medium-term financial strategy to support more
concretely the comprehensive adjustment program, including
rapidly completing bilateral negotiations on the 1985
rescheduling, avoiding arrears, improving the terms of its
outstanding debt and adopting a more restrictive policy
vis-a-vis Government guarantees; it will also continue with
its policy of not contracting or guaranteeing any external
loans of 1 to 12 years maturity except on concessional terms
(grant element of at least 25 percent); the Government will
inform IDA of the terms of all loans above US $5.0 million
before signature;
(ii)  reinforce the managerial capacity of the CAADE by putting In
place a training program for staff, reducing staff turnover,
introducing an accounting framework compatible with UDEAC
regulations, and continuing with computerization of internal
accounting and external debt data.
B.  AGRICULTURE
30.       Agriculture is the key sector of the economy accounting currently
for 41 percent of GDP, 41 percent of merchandise exports, and nearly
80 percent of employment. The most important activities are production of
foodcrops and livestock which each contribute more than a third of agricul-
tural value added. In addition to livestock, the production for export of
cotton, coffee and tobacco are the primary sources of cash income in the
rural areas. Government policies in the 1980s aimed at reversing the
decline in agricultural value added observed in the 1970s by rehabilitating
the priority road network and by reviving export crop and livestock
production by smallholders. This strategy resulted in improved
performance, with agricultural value added growing at 3.3 percent per annum
in real terms between 1981 and 1985.
31.       The main constraints to continued growth in the sector are:



- 12 -
(i)  uncertainties, given past interference by Government,
resulting in a lack of confidence among private economic
agents;
(ii) volatility in world prices for export crops, accentuated by
the negative impact of high transrortation costs on the
competitiveness of exports;
(iii) a small domestic market characterized by high marketing
costs due to dispersed supply, poor roads and long distanc-
es, poor market information, and by Government policies
which have tended to limit competition and favor imports;
(iv) inadequate support services (extension, input supply,
agricultural research) to farmers because of inefficient
institutions and insufficient coordination and guidance by
the Ministry of Rural Development; and
(v)  weak incentives to improve productivity due to low popula-
tion density, inadequate monetization of the economy, more
attractive alternative activities such as hunting and
mining, lack of market outlets, and, in the case of coffee,
inadequate price incentives.
32.       The Covernment's development strategy for 1986-90 reinforces the
role of the agricultural sector, with tts enormous potential for increased
production, as the main engine of economic growth.  The Government has
adopted a comprehensive approach to the sector based on maximizing the
growth of value-added from traditional exports (coffee, cotton, tobacco,
and livestock) while at the same time identifying diversification activi-
ties for which CAR has a comparative advantage. In the livestock sector,
the IDA-financed National Livestock project, approved in April 1986, should
significantly increase the health and size of the country's cattle herd.
The Government will reorganize the Ministry of Rural Development along
functional lines in order to improve applied research, extension, and seed
production and distribution. Further measures to be identified by the
studies of the coffee and cotton sub-sectors, under the SAL program, will
be implemented under the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Cridit
scheduled to be appraised in early 1987.
33.       Food Crops. Food crop production, which accounts for about
40 percent of agricultural value-added, is primarily for subsistence except
in areas around Bangui and along the main roads. Domestic production is
normally sufficient to satisfy local demand. Improved incentives should
encourage adoption of simple, inexpensive measures for immediately increas-
ing productivity such as improved cultural practices and use of improved
seed. Liberalization of marketing and pricing policies remains an
essential ingredient of the Government's program.



- 13 -
34.       This program includes the following specific actions:
(i) the abolition in June 1986 of the licensing requirements for
food crop traders, official/indicative producer and consumpr
prices, and all road control posts;
(ii) review the food aid program and define by October 1986
specific criteria and steps to be taken to limit this
assistance to levels that would not have a negative impact
on the demand for local foodstuffs;
(iii) undertake a study of the competition between imported
foodstuffs, particularly wheat flour, and locally produced
crops (April 1987);
(iv) prepare a program for the construction and maintenance of
access roads and clarify instituticnal responsibilities for
its implementation and coordination (October 1986);
(v)  design a system for the regular collection of market infor-
mation and prepare a proposal for dissemination of this
information by June 1987 using media such as the rural radio
program;
(vi) undertake a comprehensive study of export diversification
possibilities (December 1986); and
(vii) prepare a detailed national program for food crop research
and establish links with international research programs
(September 1986).
35.       Coffee.  Robusta coffee is the most important export crop in
terms of value added and export earnings. Since 1978, the Government has
successfully supported the expansion of small-holder production: over six
years the number of producers increased by 35 percent, and the area culti-
vated by 50 percent. However, the growth in this production has merely
compensated for the decline in the production of industrial plantations
(defined as 20 hectares or greater). Production has varied considerably
with climatic conditions ranging from 17,000 tons in 1982/83 to 3,000 tons
due to drought in 1983/84. However, neither production nor yields appear
to be on an increasing trend. This is in part due to insufficient prica
incentives as well as to inadequate support services. Since 1981. the
world price has more than doubled yet the producer price for unprocessed
coffee in the CAR has increased by only 25 percent in nominal terms and
declined in real terms by over 5 percent.
36.       In order to increase rural incomes and foreign exchange earnings,
Government intends to promote a substantial increase in coffee production.
An ambitious production target of 25,000 tons has been set for 1990. A
necessary condition for achieving this objective is a prompt and substan-
tial increase, in real terms in producer price incentives which will
encourage: (a) an immediate increase in productivity based on improved
cultural practices requiring little additional labor or purchased inputs;



- 14 -
(b) planting of new areas (impact on production in 4-5 years); and (c)
rehabilitation of the industrial plantations. The Government recognizes
that this must be supported by an urgent improvement in the technical
services provided by ADECAFI the Coffee Zone Development Agency.
37.       The following measures will be taken:
(i)  a 26.6 percent increase in the farigate price of unprocessed
coffee from CFAF 150 per kg to CFAF 190 per kg (from CFAF
300 to CFAF 380 for hulled beans) for the 1986-87 campaign
to be announced in July 1986, and a further increase in real
terms for the 1987-88 campaign to be announced in June 1987
following the study referred to in (vi) below;
(ii) define by end July 1986 a set of immediate measures to
improve coffee quality and encourage farmers to sell hulled
coffee beans, including an increase in the price differen-
tial for higher grades;
(iii) propose by September 1986 an initial set of measures to
encourage increased production by industrial plantations,
addressing inter alia the issues of labor shortages, theft,
disease, import taxes on equipment and spare parts, and
pruning incentive programs;
(iv)  immediately undertake a study of ADECAF's organization and
maragement and ltplement initial recommendations no later
than September 1986;
(v)  prepare an audit ef the accounts and management of the six
coffee cooperatives (September 1986); and
(vi) have a study done of the organization of the coffee
sub-sector which will examine in detail the bareme pricing
system and the performance of the various public and private
agents. The results of this study (January 1987), together
with items (iv) and (v) above, would be the basis for a
medium-term plan for improving the performance and efficien-
cy of the coffee sub-sector, including future criteria for
pricing and taxation.
38.       Cotton.  Cotton is the most important export crop in terms of
area grown and number of producers. Major steps havn been taken to improve
the performance of SOCADA and revive cotton production. Between 1980 and
1984, farmers' incentives improved through a nearly 70 percent increase in
the producer price which contributed to the doubling of cotton production
and yields. These gains have been offset by the rapid collapse of world
prices, which are now at their lowest level in a decade. To reduce
SOCADA's losses Government has already (April 1986) limited seed cotton
production, frozen the producer prices at current levels, and reduced
subsidies on insecticides and fertilizers to 49 and 36 percent of costs



- 15 -
respectively for the current campaign. Moreover, Government and SOCADA
have agreed on a two-year adjustment program for the cotton subsector based
on consolidating SOCADA's operations by stopping itB activities in marginal
areas where cotton production is more costly and where cotton contributes
only a small proportion oa household income. This would result in savings
from closure of ginneries, reduction of the transport fleet, extension
services and input requirements, and lower production. As part of this
program, the Government has decided:
(i)  that subsidies to cotton farmers for insecticides and
fertilizers would be further reduced from current levels to
25 and 20 percent respectively before the start of the
1987/88 campaign and totally eliminated before the 1988/89
campaign;
(ii) to reduce ginning capacity by closing in June 1986 three
ginneries (Alindao, Ndim and Grimari);
(iii) to consolidate SOCADA's cotton promotion activities to the
eastern and central zones which are most cuitable for cotton
production, reducing its area of activity by a total of
28,000 ha by the start of the 1987/88 campaign, with a view
to limiting SOCADA's cotton production to about 30,000 tons;
and
(iv) to carry out a study of the edible oil market identifying
the potential demand for each type of oil and refrain from
re-opening SOCADA's Alindao oil mill unless the study
concludes that the mill will be financially and economically
profitable.
39.       The development of a medium- to long-term program will be based
on an in-depth study of the viability of the cotton sub-sector. The termsQ
of reference were agreed with IDA in June 1986 and the study will begin no
later than September 1986.
40.       Forestry.  'i ie challenge facing the forestry sector, which in
recent years has accounted for 3 percent of GDP and over 20 percent of
export earnings, is to overcome the bottlenecks associated with inadequate
infrastructure and long distances to seaports, and to increase efficiency
and competitiveness. The sector, already an important source of foreign
exchange earnings, has the potential to contribute considerably more to GDP
and exports, even though exports of forestry products as a percentage of
total exports has actually declined over the last five years. To
revitalize the sector, and to initiate steps to put forestry planning,
management, production and control on a sound basis, the Government
proposes a series of policy actions. Priority would be given to
liberalization of prices and simplification of the tAxation system in the
forest industry in order to increase incentives and efficiency, encourage
domestic transformation into finished products, improve protection of
forests, and increase Government revenues. With the transfer of the



- 16 -
recently liquidated Societe d'Exploitation Forestiere et Industrielle
(SOCEFI) from the public to the private sector, the Government would
withdraw totally from co mercial activities in the sector. Public
investments would place increased emphasis on improvement and maintenance
of forestry access roads and bridges in the main areas of exploitation (in
conjunction with the fifth road rehabilitation project).
41.       The specific actions which the Government will take include:
(i) reduced import taxes on machinery, spare parts, and equip-
ment for a period of three years by January 1987;
(ii) transfer of assets of the recently liquidated Societe
d'exploitation Forestiire et Industrielle (SOCEFI) to the
private sector by December 1986;
(iii) an analysis of the operational and financial performance of
the Office National de Forets (ONl), to be carried out
during the period June-September 1986. On the basis of this
audit, the objectives and functions of ONF will be rede-
fined in relation to those of the Ministry of Forestry and
the reorganization of nNF will be implemented by January
1987;
(iv) lifting of price controls on domestically marketed sawn wood
by September 1986;
(v) a review of the present system of concessions and prepara-
tion of a proposal to introduce longer-term concessions
encouraging firms to improve their management and pay
greater attention to forest protection and regeneration by
September 1986; and
(vi) completion of ongoing studies on the relative efficiency
between road and river transport routes in order to define
measures for the improvement of the existing system.
C.   SMALL- AND MEDIUM- SCALE ENTERPRISES AND MINING
42.       SHEs. Manufacturing in the CAR, which is still at an embryonlc
stage and is undertaken largely by SMEs, accounted for approximately 8.0
percent of GDP in 1985. It consists mai4nly in processing of agricultural
and forestry products, textiles, food and beverages, chemical products,
footwear and assembly of light transportation equipment.
43.       The development of this sector has been hampered not only by
structural factors such as the country's landlocked position and small size
of the domestic market, but also by an inadequate policy environment
including an encroaching public sector. The cumbersome system of price
regulations has resulted in little incentive to reduce costs, inefficient
resource allocation, a tariff schedule implemented without sufficient



- 17 -
analysis, the impact on incentives, and a discriminatory Investment Code.
This has meant capacity underutilization, unprofitable enterprises, and
inadequate private investment.
44.       To generate the necessary supply response from the SMEs, the
Governnent will:
(i)  perform a study of the incentive structure affecting the
efficiency of resource use in the SME sector and identify
the main actions to be taken, with implementation to follow
after discussions of recommendations with the main donors;
(ii)  revise the Investment Code and other legislation (e.g.,
public procurement procedures) pertaining to SMEs (December
1986); and
(iii) create a light, highly opera1uonal and non-bureaucratic SME
promotional agency (CAPMEA) - endowed for the present with
a li-mited number (10) of competent managerial and technical
staff.
45.       Mining, primarily diamond and gold production, accounted for some
3.0 percent of GDP and 30 percent of merchandise export in 1985. Although
production and official exports of these two products have increased since
1983, they have yet to reach the levels achieved in the 1960s (300,000
carats of diamonds and 250 kg of gold in 1985 compared to 500,000 carats
and 500 kg in 1968. The decline of the sector during the 1970s was due to
excessive taxation which discouraged production and encouraged unofficial
exports. The recent recovery is a result of Government actions to address
this issue by reducing export taxes in two steps from 20 percent to 12
percent on diamonds, and from 20 percent to 5.0 percent on gold and by
increasing the effectiveness of national evaluators through training and
technical assistance.
46.       In the context of the structural adjustment program, the Govern-
ment has decided to:
(i)  take the following measures to reduce fraud:
a)   modifying the diamond export tax, with a more appropriate
system for categorizing diamonds expressed in US dollars
(already defined), introducing a new "valeur mercuriale a
l'exportation" for raw diamonds (already introduced) to be
adjusted periodically in relation to the variations-in
1/   Centre d'Assistance aux Petites et Noyennes Entreprises et a
1'Artisanat.



- 18 -
international markets, and further reducing the tax rate by
January 1987;
b)   improving the evaluation system for diamonds by introducing
a comnission system for national evaluators at a rate of 1.0
percent of tax receipts (estimated cost CFAF 15 million per
year), and creating a special fund tCFAF 200 million ini-
tially) to permit the Ministry of Mining to buy those dia-
monds assessed by private evaluators at less than the world
price (October 1986); and
c)   increasing the efficiency of the mining brigades by provid-
ing incentives thrcugh a commission system (August, 1986),
increasing their number from three to five and reinforcing
their logistical means.
(ii) stimulate production and exports by:
a)   promoting further participation by experienced foreign firms
in the national diamond industry;
b)   increasing the number and efficiency of small gold producers
by implementing the "Promotion d'Or Artisanal" project and
providing technical assistance to smasl diamond producers;
and
c)   strengthening the Mlnistry of Mines prospection and chemical
analysis activities and improving its archives in order to
better assess the country's mineral potential.
D.   CIVIL SERVICE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
47.       The public sector in the CAR provides more than 50 percent of
jobs in the modern sector. This is because the private sector remains
weak. The rapid increase in administrative personnel has borne little
correlation to the State's needs. The Public Service wage bill which
peaked in 1981 when salaries and allowances amounted to 89.3 percent of
budgetary receipts still absorbs a disproportionate amount of State
revenues. The increase was due partly to a poorly controlled salary policy
up to 1981, with large salary increases and excessive recruitment. Between
1976 and 1981, personnel increased by 30 percent from 19,700 to 25,600, and
the wage bill increased from CFAF 10.8 billion to CFAF 21.7 billion. The
ratio of the Civil Service wage bill to GDP reached 11.5 percent in 1981.
48.       Since then, the Government has realized that the size, composi-
tion, and inefficiency of the CAR's administrative Bystem is a serious
barrier to the country's development prospects. Its main acknowledged
weaknesses are:
(i) the administration is overstaffed, compartmentalized, and organ-
ized into an excessively regulated hierarchy;



- 19 -
(ii) the responsibilities of the ministries and large administrative
units are unclear and their organizational structures are fre-
quently inconsistent, leading to poor internal and external
coordination;
(iii) staff is managed with a multiplicity of rules (more than 600
specific rules), sometimes contradictory and/or redundant, adding
to the complexity of a weak management system. In addition,
there is an excessive amount of mobility at the managerial level;
and
(iv) present training of civil servants is poorly adapted to new
administrative needs, with an abundance of civil servants trained
in the social and legal disciplines, and a lack of economists,
technical experts, and trained administrators.
49.       As part of its National Action Program, the Government in 1982
proposed a reduction in the administration's operating expenses based on
policies to drastically streamline and tighten personnel management, reduce
staff and reorganize and rationalize organizational structures. This led
to:
(i) the establishment of an updated list of civil servants and state
officials and a reliable payroll roster. The new payroll list
led to the removal of 1,070 salaried positions, to the discovery
of 2,690 cases of unwarranted promotions and 444 cases of improp-
erly graded positions; and
(ii) the adoption of a series of measures to reduce the wage bill and
the size of the staff, including recruitment quotas (I CFAF of
new recruitment requiring 3 CFAF of wage bill cuts, hereafter
referred to as the "1 for 3 franc rule"), increased taxes and
additional contributions on allowances, a freeze on salaTy
increases accompanying promotions, and the introduction of
procedures for the dismissal of inefficient managers.
50.       As a result, by 1984, there was a CFAF 466 million decrease in
the wage bill and a net decrease of 513 salaried positions, despite the
recruitment of 404 officials. Between 1981 and 1985 the growth of the
civil service salary bill in nominal terms was restrained to 11 percent,
with the wage bill share of the budgetary receipts falling from 89.3
percent to 58 percent. Despite these improvements, the civil service in
the CAR still faces serious problems, and the Government proposes to
further reduce the civil service wage bill by:
(i)  enforcing regular obligatory retirement and eligibility
criteria for family allowances;
(ii)  establishing clear selection procedures for entry into the
civil service; and



- 20 -
(iii) reducing personnel by defining manpower plans specifying the
number and profiles of posts required in each ministry:
these stafflng plans will be developed and introduced flrst
in the Ministries of Rural Development (July 86), Economy
and Finance (November 86), and Public Service (December 86).
All ministries will be covered by the end of 1987. A
"Personnel Bank" will be established to reassign redundant
staff from any agency to other vacant appropriate posts in
the civil service or to assist departure of such staff by
financing redundancy payments and/or training programs to
facilitate their absorption into the private sector.
51.       The Government will also:
(i) impose a temporary freeze on all new re-organization plans, which
tend to encourage new high-level position creation, in order to
encourage the ministries to complete their staffing plans as
rapidly as possible, and establish, before the end of October
1986, general rules governing the creation, suppression, and
modification, of large administrative units;
(ii) rationalize the administrative management of state employees
through the simplification of the 600 existing rules and the
systematic presentation of them in an administrative management
guide, the revision of the Statute on the Civil Service (December
1987), and the reorganization of the Public Service archives.
These measures will be accompanied by a redefinition of the staff
management role of the Civil Service Ministry vis-a-vis other
ministries and public agencies; and
(iii) improve financial management by linking of budgets to authorized
posts (September 1986). computerizing the payroll system (opera-
tional by end-1987), and revising and simplifying the salary
supplement system (end-1987).
E. THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
52.       The parapublic sector in the CAR, progressively extended during
the 1970s, consists of 46 enterprises, including 9 wholly-owned "societes
d'etat", 26 "societ6s d'6conomie mixte" and 11 "offices publics". Pars-
public enterprises are involved in virtually all economic sectors includ-
ing, inter alia, agriculture (marketing of cotton, coffee, tobacco; rural
development and producer price stabilization); utilities (water, electrici-
ty; post/telecommunications); transport (river, trucking, domestic air-
line), services (pharmacy, insurance, hotel), petroleum importing and
distribution; industry (diamonds, textiles, slaughterhouse, vegetable oil
processing and soap manufacturing) and banking. Faced with mounting
losses, the Government began to take steps in 1981 to limit Government's
new
intervention to strategic activities (mainly utilities) or large agricul-
tural and industrial projects where private sector investment was lacking.



- 21 -
The Government has also been successful in finding prlvate sector partners
(or managers) for the petroleum importing/distribution company (TOCAGES)
and the textile company (UCATEX). In 1985, the Government liquidated
three state-owned banks and a transport company, and commenced liquidation
of a forestry company. It also initiated a search for private partners for
parapublic enterprises involved In palm oil processing (SICPAD) and Insur-
ance (SIRIRI). On a general level, parapublic wages have been frozen for
five years (as in the civil service).
53.       Despite these initiatives, the parapublic sector continues to
experience operating losses (estimated CFAF 4.2 billion In 1985), low
productivity (parastatals account for approximately 20 percent of modern
sector employment but only 6.0 percent of value added) and increasing
illiquidity. Major problems include: a lack of financial discipline on the
part of either the Government or enterprises to meet their respective
obligations, resulting in substantial arrears and cross-debts; overstaffing
in virtually all enterprises; excessive Government intervention in
parapublic operations (notably staff appointments and price levels); and
institutional weaknesses whereby a large number of expenditure and
financing commitments are made on an ad hoc basis without being incor-
porated into the enterprise budget.
54.       To address these problems, the Government will begin to undertake
a program of comprehensive reform of the parapublic sector with the objec-
tives of Improving enterprise productivity and efficiency, reducing the
sector's financial burden upon Government, progressively liberalizing the
sector in terms of pricing and competition, and divesting non-strategic
enterprises and activities through privatization and liquidation.
55.       In its Statement of Development Policy, the Government affirms
that it will:
(i) reinforce its divestiture efforts while adopting an immediate
moratorium for a period of five years on the creation of new
wholly-owned public enterprises, or mixed enterprises where
Government is a majority partner;
(ii) propose by September 30, 1986, a rationalization plan separating
commercially-oriented enterprises and activities from those of a
largely administrative nature, and further classifying each group
into (a) priority enterprises for divestiture (privatization or
liquidation); (b) enterprises requiring restructuring; and (c)
enterprises which could be merged with another enterprise or
Government agency;
(iii)  not permit growth of parapublic staffing above 1985 levels and
enforce the application of the "1 franc for 3" rule for each
societe d'etat and office public, while plans are prepared to
assess staffing levels in comparison with needs:  these plans
will be implemented over a two-year period; and



- 22 -
(iv) identify by end 1986 arrears and cross-debts between Government,
enterprises and the banks (a commission has already been estab-
lished) and formulate a strategy for clearance.
56.       The Government will also address serious institutional and
procedural deficiencies by taking steps to ensure that: (1) sufficient
funds are included in the Government's 1987 budget to cover forecast
obligations to enterprises (notably utility bills); (ii) subsidies/
transfers are reduced by 10 percent in real terms in the 1987 budget;
(iii) all Covernment-supported enterprise borrowing (either guaranteed or
on-lent) is only for approved investment projects and has acceptable
borrowing terms/conditions and a minimum of 10 percent self-financing by
the enterprise; (iv) initiate a study by October, 1986 on institutional
reforms to clarify the respective responsibilities of the enterprise, the
sponsoring Ministry and the High Commission of Public and Mixed Enterprises
with the goal of increasing enterprise autonomy in day-to-day operations
while also strengthening Government's ability to monitor/evaluate perfor-
mance, and (v) prepare the 1985 and 1986 consolidated accounts for the
parapublic sector and institute a process to prepare those accounts annual-
ly from 1987 onwards.
57.       Action plans have been prepared for Inter-RCA (airline), SICPAD
(soap and oils) and SEGA (abattoir) to reduce losses with a medium-term
goal of divestiture. Inter-RCA's airline operations have been suspended
and the CAR army will assume responsibility for essential service while the
feasibility of a domestic airline service is assessed in detail. The
Government will transfer the service to the private sector, or formally
liquidate Inter-RCA, by end 1987. In the case of SEGA, in order to restore
profitability, the Government will ..ake steps to reintroduce the more
cost-efficient electrical shock method of animal slaughter. Finally, in
order to improve the financial performance of SICPAD and attract potential
investors, the Government will reduce operating costs (including laying off
35 staff), undertake a study of the oils and fats markets, including those
for SICPAD's key products, and the possibilities of rationalizing the
processing activities of the three parastatals (SICPAD, CENTRAPALM,
SOCADA). Diagnostic studies and action plans will be prepared for other
parastatals on a phased basis, with the strategic enterprises (major
utilities) completed by October 1986, priority enterprises by June 1987 and
the remainder by June 1988.
PART III - ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
The Bank's Medium-Tern Projections
58.       The Bank has prepared, using the RMSM framework, a Base Case
scenario for the period 1986-1995. The Base Case projections take as their
starting point the Government's own targets for the key macroeconomic
variables, in particular, the medium-term goal of achieving a sustained 4.0
percent GDP growth per annum. Moreover, these projections assume that the
structural adjustment program outlined in paras. 16 to 57 is implemented
according to its 1986-1987 calendar. For the period 1988-1995, the



- 23 -
structural adjustment process is seen to be sustained, with continuing
efforts at stabilization in conjunction with a broadening and deepening of
the efforts to sectoral levels. A Downside Risk Case is also presented to
highlight the impact of major slippages in the Government's reform program
on the key macroeconomic indicators. Table 1 below presents the results of
the Base and Downside Risk Cases.
59.       The Base Case scenario is dependent on several critical assUmp-
tiDons in the 1986-1990 period inherent to the successful pursuit of struc-
tural adjustment. These are:
(i)  supply responses in agriculture are seen to lead to a
4.0 percent growth in the food crop sector; coffee
production and exports are assumed to rise to a more
conservative 20,000 tons, as opposed to the Government's
target of 25,000 tons by 1990;
(ii) the growth of public consumption is assumed to be con-
strained to 0.9 percent per annum in real terms in order to
mobilize public savings in support of a growing public
investment program;
(iii) raising the share of private investment in total investment
from 20 percent in 1985 to 25 percent in 1990;
(iv) a substantial increase in the ratio of total investment to
GDP;
(v)  a reform of the parapublic sector, lessening its burden on
the public finances; and
(vi) reforms in the trade and pricing regimes are assumed to lead
to efficient import substitution, improved transport servic-
es and increased activity in the industrial and services
sectors.
60.       For the 1990-1995 period, the Base Case scenario assumes a
continuation of the structural adjustment process with further progress in
the balance of payments and debt service areas and therefore a less con-
strained public sector. The 1986-1995 scenario also assumes that in the
absence of further reschedulings after November 1985, the firancial gap
would be filled by concessional funds with 20 year maturities, four percent
interest and two years grace.
61.       Base Case results indicate an achievement of the overall growth
target of 4.0 percent per annum for the 1986-1990 period and a slightly
higher 4.6 percent for 1990-1995, representing an increase of about
1.2 percent per annum in GDP per capita. The achievement of these targets
will essentially depend on the growth of the productive sectors, namely
agriculture and industry. This in turn will depend on the continuation of
public finance discipline in order to avoid the crowding out of private



- 24 -
sector activities, including investments. To a great extent the drop in
public sector employment is expected to be compensated by a rise in private
sector activities, including SMEs, commerce and transport.
62.       The Base Case leads to an improvement in public and private
resource mobilization over the medium term. This is made possible by the
containment in the growth of public consumption, particularly in 1986-1990
(reducing the wage bill as a percentage of budgetary receipts), the reduc-
tion of government capital transfers to the parapublic sector and increases
in fiscal receipts induced by the growth of GDP and the application of
structural reforms. Moreover, the projections lead to a major improvement
in the current account deficit (excluding transfers) to GDP ratio over the
period in question. This is achieved essentially by an expansion of
coffee, diamond and timber exports resulting from Improved incentives and
associated supply responses. Yet, as shown in Table 2, the external debt
profile under the scenario shows an increase in the debt service payments
(including IMF) during the critical 1988-89 period. Although the debt
outstanding to CDP ratio increases steadily from 1987 onwards, the debt
service ratio begins to decline in 1990, as the policy of replacing
expensive debt by concessional funds begins to relieve the burden of the
debt on foreign exchange earnings and fiscal receipts. Gross capital
inflows (excluding grants) required to support the CAR in the 1986-1990
period, under the sceaario, average about JS$90 million per year.
63.       The medium-term scenario described here is used to illustrate the
rigorous program upon which the CAR must embark if it is to achieve the
objectives of the structural adjustment program. There are of course
certain risks associated with the realization of this scenario. These may
be exogenous to the management of the economy or they may be associated
with severe slippages in the program. Table 1 also shows the results of a
Downside Risk Case where a confluence of negative factors are assumed to
coalesce. Of major importance are the following:
(i) supply responses in agriculture are less than expected, with
lower results for foodcrops production and coffee exports;
(ii) public sector reforms do not achieve their objective to reduce
the growth of public consumption and increase the growth of
public investment to the desired levels;
(iii) the policy environment does not improve enough to spur private
sector activity and private investment remains sluggish; and
(iv) there are major delays in implementing the parapublic sector
reforms.



- 25 -
Tabk 1: CAR - Seleted Fcanidc Iimatos: 1984-1990
Axzl Real Growth Rate
1984   1985     Bae Case ScariD  Downside rk Sces.
Un_ts           Actual  Fat.    1985-1990  1990-1995 1985-1990 1990-1995
1984 CFAF
GDP (prit price)            bLllkn            279      286       4.0       4.6       2.7        3.1
Agriculture (factor cst)      VI              109      113       4.2       4.2       2.9        3.1
m      ctoy ( o ost)                           39      40        5.3       5.8       3.5       3.2
Services (factor cost)                        115      119       3.4       4.4       2.4       3.0
Pivate Cam( ption                             241      252       3.4       3.6       3.1        3.2
iubllc Coas ptio                               37       37       0.9       3.3       1.5        2.7
inestseit                                      35      37        8.7       7.0       4.3       3.6
po8  of Goods anXd NS                          58      64        5.2       6.6       1.9       3.0
Imprt oS oods andIdNES                         91      104       4.3       4.6       3.2       3.3
Curret Aannt RBJx  1/  Current $Mifm          -97     -99
Cbrrent Account Baae-31                               -46
Projected
1984    1985   Base Case Seazlo   Downside Risk Scen.
Rat[os                      Units             Acthl   Fat.    1990        1995      1990       1995
I/aJe                 X        ~      ~~~~~ 12!.3    12.8    16.1  18.1      13.81     14.2!
Public: Tvestmnt/
Total Invesozut             Z                79.4    80.4    74.8       69.4      84.1       83.3
GDjS/GUP                      Z                +0.4    -1.0      2.9       8.6      -1.5       -0.7
Gmernimt Sangs/WGDP           Z                 0.9     1.1      2.5       3.2       1.1        1.3
Ezpa -o Goods and lES/GCP    Z                 20.7    23.1    24.8       27.4      22.5      22.4
Iu     aEtsof oods and NFS/ODP    %            32.8    36.4    36.7       36.8      36.9      37.2
Curret Accunt (1)/OF          Z               -15.2   -14.8   -12.1       -9.3     -14.0      -13.5
Carrat Accout/GP                               -4.9    -6.8    -5.8       -5.3      -7.4       -9.0
Grants/Total Gross   s        2/               63.2    47.4    43.9       33.5      39.6       25.9
Det Service/Ex)ort GNS 3/                      12.0    19.1    14.9       15.8      20.1       27.1
Debt Service/G e/aat Reipts 3/                 22.8    3D.4    19.9       16.5      25.7       35.8
HI D(D/GP 4/                                   41.4    45.2    46.9       56.1      54.0       78.1
1/ Tbcding grats to tie pblic sector.
2/  rats in ths ratio only izrlxle tecmical           e anl capital grants.
3/ Ixubzs I  debt SeVice.
4/ FEches          debt.
Sour: Officil Caent Data anD ID  promjctiw



- 26 -
On these assumptions, GDP is seen to grow by only 2.7 percent per annum
over the 19B6-1990 period and 3.1 percent in 1990-1995 as growth in the
productive sectors remains sluggish. The current account deficit to GDP
ratio does not improve markedly and the debt service and debt outstanding
to GDP ratios in 1990 and 1995 are significantly higher than in the Base
Case.
64.       The Downside Risk Case is provided to illustrate the impact on
macroeconomic variables of slippages in some of the critical reforms in
conjunction with adverse trends in exogenous factors. Is is not meant to
reflect a without-SAL scenario, which in the case of the CAR we think would
be unrealistic. Rather, it represents a more valid assessment of likely
events should the confluence of the adverse circumstances noted above
occur. A without-SAL scenario is presented in Annex VII.
The Medium-Term Financial Strategy
65.       In its Statement of Development Policy the Government presents
the broad directions of Its medium-term financial strategy, while recogniz-
ing clearly its links with stabilization and structural adjustment. These
are:
(i) to mobilize external resources in amounts sufficient to support
the program and on terms that are concessional;
(ii) to channel these resources towards the priorities defined in the
Plan and its public investment program;
(iii) to achieve a donor consensus on these priorities through a UNDP
Round Table in early 1987;
(iv) to progressively replace expensive debt by concessional funds as
part of a borrowing and debt management program designed to ease
the debt service burden, particularly in the 1988/89 period;
(v) to avoid any further reschedulings to the extent possible; and
(vi) to progressively lessen the economy's dependence on external
grants.
66.       The Central African economy's debt repayment profile for the
period 1986-1990 is presented in Table 2. It highlights the critical debt
hump years of 1988-1989 when the debt service ratios (including IMF) peak
at around 20 percent of exports of goods and non factor services and 26
percent of budgetary receipts.
67.       The financial requirements of the Base Case scenario outlined in
Tables 1 and 2 imply gross foreign borrowings (excluding IKF) of about
US$450 million or about US$90 million per annum over the 1986-1990 period.
In addition grants are assumed to constitute an important, albeit declining
in relative terms, source of foreign capital in support of the program.



- 27 -
Tabl 2: CAR - klHi'n cxd Long-Term Extnsal Debt 1/, 1984-1990
(in $ millJln)
Actal   FtIL             Pxjectaed: Base Case Sceario
1984    1985 ;"   1986 2/  1987   1988   1989   1990
Grcs8s             3/             33.7    65.0       71.3      79.3   82.3  101.3  112.5
of which: GAPFIL4/               -       -         12.0      30.7   40.2   40.8   42.1
PIncipal Pyments 5/               12.9    17.6       14.7      20.4   27.6   32.3   24.7
of wbich:  I[F                   6.5     9.7        5.9       2.6    6.7    9.2    3.8
Interest Paynees 5/                7.7    10.6       10.2      13.0   13.7   13.9   14.3
of ihich: IHF                    2.0     2.0        2.0       1.6    1.4    0.7    0.1
Debt Servioe                      20.6    28.2       24.9      33.4   41.3   46.2   39.0
of uhich: IMF                    8.5    11.7        7.9       4.2    8.1    9.9    3.9
Debt Ostatoding DisbuIrsed 3/    224.5   308.5      371.0    432.5  493.9  572.0  662.3
mxhmITbm (Z) :
DOD 3//GDP                        35.3    45.7       41.0      40.8   42.2   44.6   46.9
Debt Service (IrludiZg 1ME/
5xports GEU                     15.5    19.1       15.8      18.6   20.3   20.0   14.9
Debt Service (ewuingl    )/
Exports CNFS                     9.1    11.2       10.8      16.3   16.3   15.7   13.4
Debt Service (irincldg IME/
Qiveencmt Rbceipts              22.8    30.4       20.9      23.0   25.7   26.1   19.9
Debt Service (pecdmndig IDE/
Cbwmrxmnt Receipts              13.4    17.8       13.8      20.1   20.6   2D.5   17.9
1/ Projecud an the bais of estfata  debt cttandg as of Decsber 31, 195 and of ns
-onqdrg reqirunmcs          ther tb  c base m somlo. ZNe bonmdng reste          we
divided into: (1) now mcandtmmts based mo bistorical trends and the DA Five Year
Tending Program and (2) xtra finncng requirements to clioe tie gap (CAGFIL).
2/ After    IsdI ng.
3/ ExMcling DIF debt.
4/ GAFFIL Izrdes the SAL, the Agriadwltral Sector Crdit, a special operation financed by
a group of financiers led by COCE for the cottbo sector and other mldantified ons.
The terns for the latter are 20 yer  repayzest, 4 percuit interest and 2 years grace.
5/ Averag terms for n-  pipeline debt frmm 1986-1990 are 30 years repayrent, 3.3 peront
interest an! 7 years go.
Source: Caisse Authxme d'              , Mlistry of PYnnce aixd IE  data and projetios



- 28 -
68.       The projected disbursements by type of lender leave a financial
gap of about US$110 million over the 1986-90 period or approximately
US$22 million per year after inclusion of the proposed SAL, the Agricultur-
al Sector Credit and the special cotton operation led by CCCE. The re-
quired inflows will have to be mobilized through injections of fresh
concessional money especially in the latter years of the Plan. Thus a
major focus of the UNDP Round Table will be to secure the necessary re-
sources to support continuation of the adjustment process until 1990. A
successful aid mobilization effort would obviate the need for a reschedul-
ing in the debt hump years. Failing this, the CAR may need to call once
more on the Paris Club to reschedule its debt falling due in 1988 and 1989.
69.       The willingness of lenders to come forward in support of the CAR
will depend critically on the Government's ability to implement the struc-
tural adjustment program it has defined for itself. Given the Government's
record in successfully stabilizing the economy since 1981, it is reasonable
to assume that such support will be forthcoming.
The Social Impact
70.       The stringent stabilization program applied since 1981 and the
long lasting freeze on wages, together with the effects of a world reces-
sion on commodity prices and the 1983 drought, led to a decline in per
capita GDP (Table 3) and to cuts in Government social expenditures. It is
quite likely, however, that rural incomes rose slightly in response to
increases in producer prices while urban incomes dropped as the stabiliza-
tion program mainly Impacted on urban employment and wages in the public
sector.
Table 3: Trends in Per Capita GDP
(1982 constant prices)
Per Capita GDB Index             Rate of Growth
1981                           100.8
1982                           100.0                           -0.8
1983                            91.6                           -8.4
1984                            97.2                            6.1
1985                            97.4                            0.2
71.       The structural adjustment strategy outlined by the Government is
expected to lead to a continuation of the positive growth observed since
1983. Achievement of a 4.0 percent GDP growth rate would lead to annual
increases in GDP per capita of the order of 1.0 to 1.5 percent per annum in
the 1986-1990 period. This would be accompanied by substantial increases
in rural incomes as the reform program aims to shift the distribution of
income in favor of rural households by improving rural-urban terms of



- 29 -
trade. The reduction of cotton production in the marginal zones may have a
slight adverse impact on some farmers in these areas over the next 12
months, but with the encouragement being provided to increase production of
groundnuts, sorghum, foodcrops and coffee, for which these zones are better
suited, incomes of farmers in these areas should increase in the medium
term. The producer price policies, the liberalize ion of foodcrop pricirg
and marketing, and the heavy emphasis on rural roads in the Government's
investment program are the basic policy elements behind the contemplated
shift.
72.       While urban incomes are expected to decrease slightly in the
initial years of structural adjustment, as the public sector continues to
retrench from production and trade, the parapublic sector is curtailed and
streamlined and the wage bill is further reduced, expectations are that
policies to improve the economic environment for private sector activities
would eventually mitigate the negative impact on urban employment. As a
key follow-up measure to the Government's structural adjustment program,
the Small and Medium Enterprise project is being designed specifically to
deal with urban unemployment. Moreover, the special emphasis in the
structural adjustment program to be placed on the growth of the private
sector (especially in trade and transport) aims at further lessening the
potentially negative income effect of the program. The Government intends
to ease further the transition from public to private sector employment
through special retraining and indemnity programs.
73.       On balance, the social costs of structural adjustment are likely
to be minimal and to be outweighed by the benefits in terms of growth and
efficiency. The distribution of income should shift in the direction of
the rural sector, which would benefit the large majority of the population,
and engender the supply responses in agriculture necessary to support the
target GDP growth rate of 4.0 percent per annum. By contrast, the costs of
adjustment in the urban areas should be small, and in the final analysis a
relatively small price to pay for the major restructuring effort. In order
to measure these relative costs and benefits, two household budget surveys,
covering urban and rural areas, would be conducted, one in 1987 and one 2-3
years later. The time lag-is necessary to allow the structural adjustment
process to work its way through habits, institurions, and policies to
tangible economic results. Not only would the Bank have a clear idea of
the relative costs of the program, but the Government would receive
valuable data to complement its efforts at designing better programs for
assisting the earning capabilities of particular target groups.
Benefits and Risks
74.       Benefits.  The Government's wide ranging structural adjustment
program should promote a faster rate of economic growth and allow for a
better exploitation of its ample natural resource base. The emphasis on
increasing rural incomes will lead to improvements in the standard of
living of the vast majority of the population. In addition, the program
should reduce the size and improve the efficiency of public administration



- 30 -
as well as that of the parapublic sector. This will release manpower and
other resources to the private sector so that it can play the role ascribed
to it in a new and more liberal policy environment. The improved macroeco-
nomic policies and planning processes should increase the productivity of
public investment and, with continued stabilization, lead to increased
public savings, reductions in the country's balance of payments deficit and
a lighter debt service burden. This in turn should enable the economy to
better withstand adverse changes in the international environment, such as
the recent collapse in cotton prices, to which it is susceptible.
75.       Risks.  A program as comprehensive and detailed as that adopted
by the CAR is clearly not without risks. The principal ones are discussed
below.
76.       International Prices of Key Exports.  The medium-term prospects
outlined above are based on certain assumptions concerning export receipts
for coffee, cotton, timber and diamonds. Moreover, international prices of
the main agricultural crops determine CAISTAB surpluses. Factors which
threaten the stability of export receipts and CAISTAB surpluses include the
vagaries of the weather, the volatility of world prices, exchange rate
fluctuations and the economic conditions in the industrialized countries.
The impact of adverse changes in these factors would clearly not be incon-
sequential. However, the CAR's medium-term prospects has been analyzed
conservatively and weaker than projected prices are unlikely to
fundamentally jeopardize the reform program, although they may push out in
time the achievement of stated targets, or require further compression of
public expenditures.
77.       Private Secror Growth.  Another important risk with respect to
the adjustment process concerns the possibility of weaker than expected
responses from the private sector. As noted earlier, the Government is
intent on sending strong positive signals to the private sector and to
follow up with programs to encourage participation and to eliminate policy
barriers to the initiation of private sector activity. With the growth of
privare investment dependent on the confidence of entrepreneurs, both local
and foreign, in the Governmenr's willingness to pursue its structural
adjustment program, it is clear that the actions that the Government
actually takes over the next year will be of critical importance. On the
basis of past responses to incentives, it is not likely that the responses
of private agents will be weaker than has been predicted. The results
exhibited to date indicate chat these risks are acceptable.
78.       Stabilization Costs.  A further risk lies with the pressures that
may be placed on the Government to slow down the pace of reform. An
important source of such pressure is likely to be public employees who have
seen their incomes decrease in real terms as a direct result of stabiliza-
tion measures. The Government is aware of these difficulties and has
included in its program specific measures to ease the impact on these urban
groups. The implementation of these programs (relocation, training,
redundancy payments and SME promotion) should reduce this risk to manage-
able levels.



- 31 -
79.       Support From the Donor Community.  Prospects for obtaining the
necessary support from the financial community are good.  The main risk is
that delays could occur in the stractural adjustment process, which would
lessen the willingness of lenders to provide the necessary concessionary
financing. The Government's determination to take several strong up-front
actions over the next two months augurs well for the future.
80.       Implementation Capacity.  The Government's SAL program is fairly
comprehensive, and involves a number of clearly defined actions, the
preparation of further measures and the introduction of new processes of
economic management, ranging over a wide area of critical issues. Despite
its strong determination, there is a risk that the administration's ability
to implement the program fully may not match its commitment to reform. The
existing and proposed IDA-financed technical assistance will substantially
alleviate this risk, as will the carefully worked out arrangements by
Government for high level and technical supervision of the program's
implementation. In addition, a considerable amount of supervision support
by IDA has been allocated through the CAM process.
81.       On balance, while there are real risks that the SAL program may
not achieve all its targets, there is a high probability that the overall
program will be successful. It has been carefully designed, taking into
account the socio-economic realities of the country, and the costs that
adjustment necessarily entails. As the Government places the highest
priority on meeting the program's goals, sustained efforts by the Comite de
Suivi (para. 88) will be necessary during implementation.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS
Financing
82.       It is proposed that the Government's adjustment program be
supported by an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million equivalent and a Special
Facility for Africa (SFA) Credit of US$16.0 million equivalent, to be
disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of US$12.0 million
equivalent, or 40 percent of the total of both credits, would be available
on effectiveness and the second tranche of US$18.0 million would be
released only after the Government had made satisfactory progress in
implementing the program and specifically in meeting the conditions listed
in para. 87 below.
83.       The proposed Credits are expected to be disbursed over a 15-month
period ending in December 1987. They would finance about 5.0 percent of
the import bill and 11 percent of the country's gross external capital
requirements over the 1986-87 two-year period, and would complement grants,
non-project and project financing from the FAC, EEC, CCCE, AFDB, EADEA and
other donors. The SAL program has been prepared in close collaboration
with the IMF and key donors have been consulted.



- 32 -
Honitorable Actions
84.       The specific measures supported by the proposed Credits are set
out in the Government's Statement of Development Policy (Annex V) and are
summarized in a matrix in Annex VI.
85.       The following actions were taken by Government during preparation
of the proposed program:
(a) adoption of a public investment program for 1986 acceptable to
IDA (May 1986);
(b) freezing the cotton producer price at last year's level, and
reducing the subsidies on insecticides and fertilizers (April
1986);
(c) modifying the diamond export tax system, by increasing the
categories of diamonds from 7 to 34 and raising the reference
price, in line with Antwerp prices, on which the tax is calculat-
ed (April 1986); and
(d) creation of a high level commission to deal with tax evasion
(April 1986).
86.       The following actions, defined during negotiation, have also been
taken:
(a) elimination of import quotas by abolishing the "Jumelage" system;
(b) provision of CAISTAB?s provisional budget for fiscal year 1986/7;
(c)  announcing an increase in the producer price for coffee for the
1986/7 season from CFAF 150 to CFAF 190 per kg;
(d)  increasing the price differential for higher grades of coffee;
(e)  closure of the cotton ginneries at Alindao, Ndim and Grimari;
(f) issuance of decrees/ordinances to abolish: Ci) licences for
foodcrop traders; (ii) official foodcrop producer and consumer
prices; and (iii) road control posts;
(g) adoption of a satisfactory staffing plan for the Ministry of
Rural Development designed to reduce its personnel;
(h)  extending the "1 franc for 3" rule to the confirmation of civil
service trainees;
(i)  issuing a Presidential instruction reminding all concerned tEht
the adoption of new organization charts for Ministries and



- 33 -
Government Departments are contingent upon the completion of
satisfactory manpower plans;
(j) adoption of a policy of no growth in the total staffing of the
parapublic sector above December 1985 levels and application of
the "I franc for 3" rule to all state owned enterprises:
(k) adoption of a five-year moratorium on the creation of new state
enterprises or joint venture companies in which the State is the
majority shareholder; and
(l) issuance of a Presidential Decree defining the composition,
organization, and terms of references of the high level committee
to supervise implementation of the SAL program.
87.       During negotiations, it was agreed with Government that avail-
ability of the second tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory overall
progress in implementing the SAL program and in particular upon the follow-
ing actions being taken:
(a) adoption by the Government of a Public Investment Program for
1987, the introduction of a three-year rolling investment program
system and the adoption of a 1987 Loi-Finance, all acceptable to
IDA;
(b) elimination of price controls on locally produced goods and fixed
intermediation margins on all imported goods, except for a
limited number of sensitive products for which competition is not
assured, acceptable to IDA;
(c) adoption of a revised Investment Code acceptable to IDA;
(d) implementation of the reforms of CAISTAB specified in para. 27 of
the Statement of Development Policy;
Ce) preparation of the 1985 and 1986 consolidated accounts for the
parapublic sector and the adoption of a satisfactory plan to deal
with arrears and cross-debts of public enterprises;
(f) adoption of satisfactory staffing plans for the Ministries of
Economy and Finance and the Civil Service;
(g) implementation of the computerized system for all such civil
service budgeted positions, and the establishment of a "Personnel
Bank" to reassign redundant staff or to assist voluntary
resignations of civil servants and their absorption into the
private sector; and
(h) reduction in the level of subsidies on insecticides and fertiliz-
ers to cotton farmers to 25 and 20 percent respectively.



- 34 -
Management and Administration of the SAL Program
88.       The Governuent has established a high level inter-ministerial
Committee (Comite de Suivi) to supervise the preparation and implementation
of its adjustment program. The Committee will be chaired by the Minister
of Plan and includes the Ministers of Economy and Finance, Commerce, Rural
Development, and of the Civil Service and the High Commissioners for Public
Enterprises, for Public Administration, and for Small and Medium Indus-
tries. The Director General of CAISTAB and the Director General of SOCADA,
the cotton agency are also members. A Presidential Directive was Issued in
July 1986 to all government agencies and parapublic enterprises, stressing
the importance of implementing the measures as scheduled under the program,
and a process has been initiated whereby all Presidential decrees that
affect the adjustment program would require prior approval by the Chairman
of the Comirt de Suivi. The Committee is supported by a small secretariat
which will be assisted by several long-term experts financed by the IDA
Second TA Project. The Secretary of the Comite de Suivi has been recruited
and will spend a week at IDA headquarters familiarizing himself with
disbursement and supervision requirements. The Bank is in the process of
recruiting a staff member, under the IDA-only TA program, to serve as a
Senior Economic Adviser to the Minister of Plan. He is expected to play a
key role in supporting the Committee in program implementation.
Coordination with the IMF
89.       The Government's SAL program has been prepared in consultation
with the IMF and the Bank, and there has been close collaboration between
IDA and 'und staff, both in Washington and in Bangui, where the IMF has had
a Resident Representative since early 1986. Bank staff advised the I[F on
earlier stand-by programs, particularly on agricultural producer prices and
civil service reform. IDA-financed technical assistance under the First
and Second TA projects has provided the technical analysis for several
elements of the IMF programs. The Government recognizes that continued
stabilization is a pre-requisite for the success of its structural adjust-
ment program and that the Fund and SAL programs are inter-related and
complementary. Consequently, the Government, the Fund and the Bank agree
that a common objective is to reach a tripartite consensus on a medium-term
macro-economic and financial strategy. The Bank and the Fund have begun
discussing the possibility of preparing a joint Bank/Fund medium-term
policy framework paper, as the basis for Trust Fund financing in 1987.
Procurement, Disbursements and Retroactive Financing
90.       The proposed Credits would finance 100 percent of the CIF costs
of eligible imports (excluding luxury consumer goods, defense items and
goods intended for military use). Financing of imports of petroleum
products and foodstuffs would not exceed 25 percent each of disbursements
under the Credits. Direct imports by Government would require internation-
al competitive bidding for contracts above US$1.0 million and three price
quotations for goods under US$1.0 million to be eligible. Imports by the
private sector would be in accordance with normal commercial practices in



- 35 -
the CAR, which are acceptable to IDA. Retroactive financing of up to a
total US$3.0 million would be permitted for imports made prior to Credit
signature, but after July 1, 1986. Contracts for imports of less than
US$10,000 value wDuld not be eligible for financing.
91.       To facilitate disbursement and procurement, two special accounts
would be established at the Central Bank in the name of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, one for the IDA Credit and the other for the SFA
Credit. Upon Credit effectiveness, IDA would make an initial disbursement
of US$2.0 million into each account. These accounts would be replenished
regularly and up to the limit of the first tranche on the basis of: (i)
fully documented reimbursement applications for import contracts exceeding
US$100,000; and (ii) statement of expenditures for import items between
US$10,000 and US$100,000. Disbursement applications would be aggregated
with a minimum for replenishnent application of US$500,000. To the extent
possible, proceeds from the SFA Credit would be disbursed first.
Counterpart Funds
92.       The local currency counterpart funds generated by the proposed
Credits would be deposited in a separate counterpart fund account in the
Central Bank in the name of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The
Government has indicated that it would give priority in the use of counter-
part funds to supporting its structural adjustment program and in particu-
lar to: (i) financing the deficits of the cotton sector; (ii) settling
Government arrears to the parapublic sector; and (iii) financing the
measures required to reduce the size of the civil service.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
93.       By mid-April 1986. Bank Group commitments will have amounted to
US$99.1 million including four projects in the transportation sector, three
in agriculture and two each in education and technical assistance. Whereas
five of the six currently ongoing projects contain modest policy reform
elements, our Second Technical Assistance Project, effective since mid-1985
has played a key role in developing, together with our ESW, the Govern-
ment's broad-based reform program ard has enhanced our policy dialogue
considerably. Under this project, nine resident experts are assisting the
Government in the areas of economic planning, public investment program-
ming, external debt, public administration, public enterprise management,
forestry and mining policy. A Bank staff member, seconded to work with the
Ministry of Planning for the period 1983-85 under the IDA-only TA program,
also made a substantial contribution to the development of Government's
thinking on structural adjustment. Government has requested further
assistance under this program, and we are currently in the process of
identifying a suitable candidate.
94.       In assisting the Government to prepare and  embark upon its
medium-term structural adjustment program, the Bank has widened the focus
of its interventions to ensure the provision of a coherent and consistent
overall policy environment. It is within such a framework that the supply



- 36 -
responses from the productive sectors needed to meet the country's growth
objectives can be satisfactorily engendered. IDA's program of future
operations is designed to maximize the impact of the adjustment program
reform at the sectoral and micro-level. In particular the incentive
framework we expect to initiate under the SAL in the key sector of the
economy, agriculture, will require further adjustments and development. We
have therefore started preparing an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
which we hope to appraise early in calender 1987, and which will develop
much more detailed measures at the sectoral and sub-sectoral levels to
stimulate production, increase rural incomes and diversify the pattern of
CAR's agricultural exports. Work has also been initiated on a transport
sector project, which would emphasize rehabilitation and maintenance of
rural roads and extend the network to support agricultural production.
Moreover, a Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise project to follow-up on the
initiatives of the SAL program in this field is envisaged. An Education
sector operation, to be appraised in January 1987 will concentrate on
raising the quality and efficiency of the primary education system and
improving vocational training. The possibility of further adjustment
support will be examined in the light of CAR's performance under the
current program.
95.       As noted earlier, IDA-financed TA has played a critical role in
the preparation of the 1986-90 Development Plan. The nine experts financed
under the US$8.0 million Second TA Project (Credit 1581-CA) are scheduled
ro continue providing services until December 31, 1988, and will contribute
to the implementation of the SAL program. Additional requirements for
studies and expert advice have been identified in the preparation of the
SAL program, and some of the most urgent needs will be financed from the
US$2.0 million of so far uncommitted funds available in Credit 1581-CA.
Other donors have expressed an interest in supporting some of the technical
assistance needs generated by the SAL program.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
96.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
97.       1 am satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit would
comply with the provisions of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985.
98.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit.
Attachments
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, DC
August __, 1986



37 -                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Raference Groups (MREJ
Most
Recent    Low-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    EstImate   S-S Africa    S-S Africa
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)    623.0       622.0       623.0
Agricultural (% of total)          7.7        7.8         8.)
GW  PER CAPITA CUSS)                                      260.0       219.9     1025.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         1735.0      1970.0     2521.0
Urban pop. (% of total)           26.7       34.0        44.7       20.4        33.1
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        1.6        2.3        2.9         2.8
Urban                                       4.7         4.6       652          4.8
Life expect. at birth (yrs)       40.3       43.6        48.6       48.2        51.0
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (mill)                                     4.0
Stationary pop. (mili1                                 12.0
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land              36.3       40.5        50.7       55.9        45.6
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                        39.4       40.3        42.1       46.7        46.2
15-64 yrs                       57.0       55.9        55.0       50.4        51.0
65 and above                     3.6        3.8         2.9        2.9         2.8
Crude birth rate (per thou)       34.1       37.8        42.2       46.8        46.3
Crude death rate (per thou)       24.3       21.4        16.5        18.3       15.6
Total fertility rate               4.5        5.1         5.6        6.6         6.4
Infant mort. rate (per thou)    169.0       147.7       138.0      128.5       103.2
Child death rate (per thou)       47.0       42.0        27.2       25.7        17.6
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)
Users (% of married women)                                         4.5         7. 1
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 a 100)            93.9       99.6        92.5       89.5        88.3
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirmnts)      93.9      103.2        90.6       90.0        94.2
Proteins (grams per day)        37.9       43.0        42.4       52.6        50.6
Pop. per physician (thou)         44.5       33.4        25.5 a     39.2        11.3
Pop. per nurse (thou)              3.0        2.2         2.3 a      3.3         2.6
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)       1.0        0.6         0.7 a       1.7        1.4
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                  160                    25.2        45.8
Urban                  40.0                  61.6        70.5
Rural                   5.0                  17.1        35.0



- 38 -                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
t986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Low-Income    Mid-income
1965        1973    Estimate   S-S Africa    S-S Africa
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)          1019.4       1112.6      1330.1
Female (%)                        49.4         49.2        49.2        35.7         37.5
Agriculture (%)                  F89.3         80.1        72.4 a      78.9         59.4
Industry (7)                       2.5          4.7         6.4 a       7.6         14.8
Participation rate (7):
Total                             58.B         56.5        52.8        38.9         36.2
Male                              61.6         59.8        55.7         50.4        45.8
Female                            56.1         53.4        50.1        27.5         26.7
Age dependency ratio                  0.8         0.8         0.8          1.0         1.0
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                                ..         5.1          ..           .
Urban
Rural
Percentage c f dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban
kural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                    56.0         64.0        77.0        60.1         95.5
Male                    84.0         88.0        98.0        69.6        107.8
Female                  28.0        41.0         51.0        51.3        90.7
Secondary: Total                   2.0          4.0        16.0         12.5        21.0
Male                   4.0         7.0         24.0        16.5        28.5
Female                 1.0         2.0          8.0         9.0        16.9
Pupi 1-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           53.6         65.0        62.1        45.1         42.5
Secondary                         15.5         31.4        55.5        23.0         27.7
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)            ..        35.8        49.1         59.6        80.8
INCOME. * NSUMPT iON. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)              22.4         35.2        33.3        54.6        530.7
Percentage of private Income
received by:
Highest 10% of households            ..
Highest 20%                          .            -            *          --
Lowest 20%                           ..
Lowest 40%                           --
Est. absolute poverty Income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                      ..          ..           ..             689.6
Rural                                             .        49.0                   338.1
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban
Rural                                ..          .         91.0
Passenger cars/thou pop.              2.1         3.3            .          ..        36.0
Newspaper circulation
(per tnousand population)            0.2          0.3           .          3.6         7.4
EPD July 1986
Not available
Note: Group averageas ar population weightd. Country coverage depends on data availability and Is not uniform. Unless otherwise
noted, 1985 rulers to any year between 1962 and 1906 1973 betveen 1i97 and 197t and most recent estimtat between 1982 and 1985.
a. 1980.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986)
Credit                                                  Amount (less cancellations)1/
Number    Year    Borrower   Purpose           Total           Undisbursed
(USS millions)
Six Credits have been fully disbursed.         34.06
894-CA   1979      CAR      Livestock          2.50              0.11
1150-CA 2/1981      CAR      Technical Assist. 4.00               0.01
1258-CA   1982      CAR      Highways IV       18.00              3.87
1359-CA   1983      CAR      Education II      11.00              5.30
1376-CA   1983      CAR      Area Rural Dev.  10.40               3.51
1581-CA   1985      CAR      2nd Tech. Assist. 8.00               8.33
TOTAL                           87.96             21.13
of which has been repaid         0.75
Now outstanding                 87.21
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Hi-I.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/  Beginning with Credit 1150-CA, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the
dollar equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA
amounts and the dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1986 for the
undisbursed amounts.



-40-
lahtk 1*1. National Acfounts
itual             Est.                  Pro ejtu4 1)
1fl1 Letl         IY91   1982   1993   1914   191a   196    1397    ISE             1`119    199          1975/3W          ImuIl'n I%      I95,1994
At cmnstant   In
1984 PrFcnl   ptrCent                           Real Clasqr F Dr  prevans  Vear                                   Fiwe fear Real Ratn  of Rvwerap  Arebt
IcFw  BIllatof  WP                                      III
_~~~~~~~~~.             . .  . . .     .  _   _ -  -- --  --  - ---                                              -     --- - -   -     -  --- -  - - -  - - -  -    -- -- - -     ----------- _  __ 
EDRSiPIIDI                      239.2            F9.0    -L.I    11.c   -2.S    b.?        4.9      1.      2.4     .1    2.    3.?                5.4             I.b              ;.1
IRvESIMENI                         th. I           I1X3     '.9  -15.S  -IH.6        7.1     b.;    Li    IO.S       9.0    10.1      9.9            -Y.l             -I2             B.1
tliNKS1    61*                     ?i6.5           29 5    te.    -4.2   -6.   -14.9         n.h   -4.4    10.3       1.1     6.1     6.9             -1.1            '-I              5.2
11 5  Dl Gil-S                   -412.            *14.R   -e.1    12.5    -1.8   -11.;   14.1    J.9         4.3      4.1     4.9     5.4                                              4. -2.8  4.3
GM1  f ARREtl ICHIES             2b9.1            In'.t'    1.4    I.    -b.l       S.      2.9      1.6     4.5   4t3    4.5        4.9              0.9             I.b             4.0
qIlWIulnur.                        WI.             39.?     2.7      5.     -6.b    14.a     S.l    :.t      5.1      4.8     4.b    5.2               1.D             3.2
Inste.-              t4.5                          13.5    u.S    -:k   f     b       I .1    U.;    4.Y     C.       5.t       I      ..4       .                     J. 7            5.3
Ser  Eut                          Izl.r            41.1    Q.5    -I.v    -.         _ ..I   '.4      lo a     .r     i.9     4.t     4.3             '.D             -0 4              3.4
SII  at FACtor LottS             _53.b            IV0.t      1.4     I.b    5.?    Ii.       :.       1.4     4.5     4.4     4.5     4.1             u.8              1.b             4.0
ILORI8v                                                                                                                                              14.5              9.9             4.4
bl NA                                                                                                                                                                   NA             4.                    0r-
SNIP*IF 11P                                                                                                                                            NU               Ns              1.4
1) Base Case
Source   Ilaiacmnal Arcunhts and  o0rld  Vent StaIf Estites



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
Table 32. Financial Operations of Government
( in CFAF billion, current)
Actual               Est.               Projected 2)
1976  1980  1981  1992  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1998  1989  1990
Budgetary Revenue                       13.6  20.6  24.9  35.8  36.5  39.5  41.7  44.5  49.4  54.7  60.2  66.5
Current Expenditure                    -17.6 -29.5 -33.5 -36.4 -38.6 -37.0 -38.3 -40.4 -43.5 -47.1 -5Q.5 -54.4
Public Savings                          -4.0  -8.9  -0.6  -0.6  -2.1   2.5   3.4   4.1   5.9   7.6   9.7  12.1
Capital Expenditure                     -1.3    -1  -2.2  -2.7  -3.8  -2.7  -3.3  -3.7  -4.1  -4.6  -5.2  -5.9
Overall SurpluslDeficit 1              -8.2  -9.3 -10.6  -3.1  -5.0  -4.0  -1.?  -1.6  -0.2   1.9   4.5   6.2
Memorandun Items
Government Expenditure on Wages
& Salariesllotal Revenue                79.4  90.8  87.1  66.2  65.5  59.2  58.8  56.0  53.2  51.0  48.1  46.2
(in percent of GOP)
Revenue                                 12.7  19.9  11.5  14.6  14.5  14.2  13.8  13.7  13.7  13.0  13.8  13.8
Public Savings                         -3.7  -4.7  -4.0  -0.2  -0.8   0.9   1.1   1.3   1.6   1.9   2.2   2.5
Overall Surplus                         -7.7  -4.9  -4.9  -1.3  -2.0  -1.4  -0.6  -0.5  -0.1   0.5   1.0   1.3
11 [ncludinq change in arrears.
Source   Governeent Sources and  alrld Bank Staff Projections.
2) Base Case



-42-
ANNEX I1.
Page 3 of 5
lable 30  kElernal Trade
Annual Growth Rate 2%) at constdnt prices
ktual             Est.                 Projected 1)
19B4                   1991   2992   3993   2994   19,5   19B6   1997   129           2999    1990
lndicdturs    AmouIt Lurreait pelces
'billizns of fLtct
Exter iii  TrddP
tIPORIS  IENMFSj          50.Z           -6.3   -4.2   -6.9  -14.9    0.6   -4.5   10.3    7.1    b.1    6.9
Goods                  41           -11.1   -0.4   -5.4  -22.9   15.6   -6.8   11.3           7.3    6.9     7.5
MISIF                1?.2             7.Y  -14.7  -12.2   13.9   -9.1        3.0    ?.O      7.u    6.       5.0
INPOIS (6'NMFS          91.4           -20.1   12.5   -1.9  -11.5   14.1    1.9    4.3    4.1    4.9    5.4
Goods                5t.5           -11.?    7.9   -1.2   -7.5   2b.0    3.?    4.9    4.7    5.5    .a'
'IFS                 3b.?           -24.0   19.5   -2.9  -la.0    11.4   21.2    2.?    2.6    2.9    3.;
1900   1992    12902   393   1991   1995   296   1907   1999   2I99   29O
Praces
Ezchange Hate                   211.5  271.7  328.6  391.1   '7.u  449.0  360.0  340.0  340.0  340.0  340.0
E-port Indew                     60.0   65.0   67.7   94.4  100.0   94.6  10.2  101.9  115.4  122.1  129.4
Import Inde                     63.1   74.B   Bl.9   99.5  100.0   99.0 IQ01.   107.1  115.4  124.2  123.4
Composition of feri:handise Tradetll                                           average Annual InLreae ili
(at current prices?                                                    tat constant IY04 pricesi
Actual                  t-st.                  Proectad 1e   )
197J   319   2990   1982   1982   3983   1994   19B5   196   1987   19    1919   199                       19?75190        IYBf:E5         1985;Yu
Exports
Eatfee     12.8   20.4   .I.9        .3      .9   50.3      Me'  22.9   24.4   25.9   26.J   26.1   25.7                   4.8             .. 92
Di aeonds  1'-    2?.2   !I.&    29.1   28.6   2b.1   37.9   34.0   30.1   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9                       3.5            -1.8            5.B
Cotton     12.'    h.4   11.2   1b.1    ?.9   13.5   23.9   25.5    9.0    9.2    1.9    7.8    1.9                       6.9             E.O            -4.5
liber    lb.'  13.9   21.?   29.1   '-2.'   20.2   23.9   19.2  13.6   19.4   19.5   19.9   20.3                         -5.3            -6.7             5.3
[&put t s
Food           MA      hi;   3.      12.e Li4.6   14.0   I3.9   14.4   13.0   11.9   10.7    9.6             8.b              hA            13.5             !.9
Petrcleue      NA      NA   17 O    15.2   6b.9   14.Lt   14.9   12.1    4.9   11.0    6.l    6.0    5.8                      NA             3.6            4.0
liltered I     Nk      gA   .1.2   43.O    ;5.B   41.b   3e.    4iL.    34.6   34.b   34.2   33.b   3L.2                      "A            -893            4.2
Lepital        MN      HA   11.5   25.    'I4.3   28.8   33.4   34.5   30.4   32.0   32.9   34.1   35.1                       NA             6.6            8.8
Sharp 04 !rrde pith            Share of Trade with
Industrlal Loulitries          Developinq LDaiitriIS
Ill                            (22
Directien of IrDit       I75   1990   1984                      1975   1980   1984
E:ports                  69.2   93.9   S3.4                       9.6   lb.1    6.6
Itports                  90. 4   86.5     ? 0.5                  33.5   13 .    32.5
Source: Iff. Recent EconOMIc Decelopaerit  19055), EII 11915f, Verld bank Staff Estimates
1) Base Case



-43-
Table 3C1: CAR - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS,                    ANNEX  III
(in USS million, current)                       Page 4  of 5
Actual           Est.                        Projected 2)
1975   1980   1981   1992   1983   1984   1985            1986   1987   1998   1989   19O
EXPORTS (6+NFS)                         85.9  235.2  187.7  162.2  156.1  133.2  147.9            157.6  179.1  203.7  230.7  261.7
NERCHANDISE tFOB)                   57.9  180.3  135.1  119.3  117.8   93.8  110.7            116.6  132.2  150.1  169.9  193.4
1DON-FACTOR SERVICES                28.0   54.9   52.6   42.9   38.3   39.4   37.2             41.0   46.9   53.6   60.9   68.3
IMPORrS (64NFS)                        159.6 -340.7 -253.6 -263.2 -242.2 -209.2 -235.9           -250.9 -277.8 -310.8 -350.1 -395.8
1ERCHANDISE (FOB)                   83.1 -196.9 -156.1 -149.1 -138.3 -124.7 -139.0           -146.8 -163.3 -184.1 -208.9 -238.1
NON-FACTOR SERVICES                 76.5 -143.9  -97.5 -113.5 -103.9  -84.4  -96.9           -104.1 -114.5 -126.7 -141.2 -157.7
RESOURCE BALANCE                       -73.7 -105.5  -65.9 -I01.0  -06.1  -76.0  -88.0            -93.3  -98.7 -107.1 -119.4 -134.1
NET FACTOR INCOME                       -0.5   -1.4    1.1  -4.0   -9.2   -9.6  -11.1             -13.0  -15.9  -16.4  -16.4  -16.7
OF WHICH INrEREST                2.8   -4.3   -5.2   -5.2   -6.0   -7.8   -9.4            -10.3  -13.1  -13.7  -13.9  -14.3
NET CURRENT IRANSFERS                   38.2   82.3   68.1   70.3   64.0   54.5   53.0             49.0   51.5   71.1   69.9   69.6
CURRENT BALANCE                        -36.0  -24.6    3.3  -34.7  -31.2  -31.1  -46.1            -57.3  -57.1  -52.4  -65.9  -82.2
NET H & LT OFFICIAL CAPITAL              13.5   34.1    5.9  -8.2   18.6   22.7   38.8             62.4   61.5   61.4   79.2   91.6
OTHER CAPITAL l/                        21.6  -12.8  -19.5   17.0   -1.8    1.1  -13.8              3.Q    3.2    3.4    3.7    3.9
OVERALL BALANCE                         -0.9   -3.3  -10.3  -25.9  -14.4   -7.3  -21.2              8.3    7.9   12.4   15.8   11.7
OF IHIIH HANBE IN RESERVES                                                                 -2.4   -5.0   -5.7   -6.6   -7.9
NET INr                                                                 -5.9   -2.9   -6.7   -9.2   -3.i
tIeaorandus Iteas                                            1 in percent of 6DP)
Currrent Balance                        -9.6   -2.0    0.4  -4.6   -4.7   -4.9   -6.8              -6.3   -5.4   -4.5   -5.1   -5.8
Transfer Receipts                       12.9    9.9   10.3   11.7   12.0   10.3    9.6              7.1    6.9    7.5    6.9    6.2
li lncludes net short term capital, net monetary capital, direct investment,
MUL  private capital, and errors and omissions.
Source: IMF: Recent Economic Ievelopaent (1985), Government Sources, and World Bank Staff Projections
2) Base Case



44ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
Table 3C2 - External Debt, 1991-1990
I as of end of 1985 in uiilion IIS$ current)
1981  1902  1983  1984   1985 1986  1987  1989  I909  1990
Actual           Est.           Projected 3)
NLi Disbursed Outstanding 2/                           190.4 209.3 216.4 224.5 308.5 370.7 432.5 493.9 572.0 662.3
I end of period!
M-T Principal Payments 21                                2.8   2.3  11.2   6.4   7.9   8.8  17.9  20.9  23.1  20.9
tU  Interest  2/                                         1.1   2.5   6.7   5.7   8.6   8.2  11.4  12.3  13.2  14.2
HLT Debt Service 21                                      3.9   4.8  17.?  12.1  16.5  17.0  29.2  33.2  36.3  35.1
Debt Service lincluding IMFI                          4.3   5.5  10.9  20.6  29.2  24.9  33.4  41.3  46.2  39.0
Meamorandum Items
NILT DDD/SlP 1() 21                                     29.0  32.5  36.7  35.3  45.7  41.0  40.R  42.2  44.6  46.9
nLT Debt Service!Exparts  EIFS 1) 21f                    2.3   3.2  12.9   9.1  11.2  10.9  1.3  16.3  15.7  13.4
Debt Service (including IIF)IExports SNFS 1)            2.6   3.7  13.6  15.5  19.1  15.8  18.6  20.3  20.0  14.9
Debt Service IGovernment Receipts 2/                     4.5   4.5  20.4  13.4  17.0  13.8  20.1  20.6  20.5  17.9
Debt Service (including INF)/
Gonvernment Receipts (1X                                 5-0   5.2  21.6  22.8  30.4  20.9  23.0  25.7  26.1  19.9
I* After rescheduling.
/ Excluding IMF repurchases and charges.
Sources: EPD Debt Data f or 1981-1904 , Caisse Autanaoe d'Amortissement for 1985, and
World Bank Staff Projections.
3) Base Case



-45-
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of First Presentation tc Bank:           April 1986
(b) Appraisal Mission:                             June 1986
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:                   July 1986
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                October 1986
Section II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
Implementation Review to assess overall performance:   April 1987
Section III. Special Conditions
Disbursement of the Second Tranche of US$18 million equivalent
will be dependent upon:
(a) adoption by the Government of a Public Investment Program for
1987, the introduction of a three-year rolling investment program
system and the adoption of a 1987 Loi-Finance, all acceptable to
IDA;
(b) elimination of price controls on locally produced goods and fixed
intermediation margins on all imported goods, except for a
limited number of sensitive products for which competition is not
assured, acceptable to IDA;
tc) adoption of a revised Investment Code acceptable to IDA;
(d) implementation of the reforms of CAISTAB specified in paragraph
27 of the Statement of Development Policy;
(e) preparation of the 1985 and 1986 consolidated accounts for the
parapublic sector and the adoption of a satisfactory plan to deal
with arrears and cross-debts of public enterprises;
(f) adoption of satisfactory staffing plans for the Ministries of
Economy and Finance and the Civil Service;
(g)  implementation of the computerized system for all such civil
service budgeted positions, and the establishment of a "Personnel
Bank" to reassign redundant staff or to assist voluntary
resignations of civil servants and their absorption into the
private sector; and



-46-
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(h)  reduction in the level of subsidies on insecticides and fertiliz-
ers to cotton farmers to 25 and 20 percent, respectively.



-47-                       ANNEX V
Page I
]         4"P* z   26 Juillet 1986
No     094     /86/CS/PR.-
Messieurs,
Le 25 Juillet 1985, le Gouvernement
Centrafricain a adoptd un Programme d'Ajustement
Structurel contenu dans le document ci-joint intituld
'Declaration de Politique de Ddveloppement du Gouvernement -
Juillet 1986". Les principaux objectifs de ce programme
visent & :
- poursuivre nos efforts de stabilisation financibre
entrepris ces quatre dernibres anndes avec le concours
du Fonds Mondtaire International,
- adopter un Programme d'Ajustement appropri6 pour
permettre d'accrottre la comp4tivitd de nos principaux
produits agricoles d'exportation (coton et cafd) ;
BANQUE INTERNATIONALE POUR
LA RECONSTRUCTION ET LE DEVELOPPEMENT
- W A S H I N G T 0 N --D.C.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 25
48  _
- mettre en place, une politique de vdritd des prix et
une rdelle dconomie de marchA afin d'assurer une meilleure
allocation des ressources dans ].'.conomie,
- liberaliser progressivement le rdgime des importations
et des exportations,
- poursuivre nos efforts de privatisation des secteurs
productifs de l'6conomie et d'assainissement du secteur
public et parapublic.
En appui A ce Programme d'Ajustement, nous
sollicitons un concours financier de la Banque Mondiale
(IDA) et du Fonds Spdcial d'Aide A l7Afrique Subsaharienne.
Comme vous le constaterez A l'examen de notre
programme, un certain nombre de mesures y contenues sont
dejh prises au moment otz nous vous adressons la prdsente,
aussi souhaitons-nous que notre requdte trouve rapidement
l'dcho attendu et que l'appui financier sollicite nous soit
accordd dbs les premiers jours du mois de Septembre prochain
Sachant pouvoir compter sur les Autoritds de
la Banque Mondiale afin que diligence soit faite,
Nous vous prions de croire, Messieurs, en
1lassurance de notre parfaite consid6ration./-
-Lrrc'rrd  K  I
Bkd K OL I NG B A.-



-49-
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 26
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Statement of Development Policy 1986-1987
1.        Realizing the extent of the economy's deterloration during the
1971-1979 period, the Government reacted by drawing up an emergency program
for 1980-81. The aim of the program was to identify short-term solutions
to the most urgent problems. It was in no way intended to be a plan for
restructuring the national economy. The emphasis of the program was on
urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure and it resulted in a marked im-
provement of the priority road network. Unfortunately, results in other
sectors included in the program were not as positive and the general
economdc situation, aggravated by continued political instability and
social disorder, deteriorated further in 1980 and 1981.
2.        Serious attempts at promoting the economic recovery of the
country began in mid-1982. An interim recovery program was designed,
focussing on redresslng the large internal and external imbalances,
redeveloping the country's principal export sectors and inItiating the
process of restructuring the extended parapublic and public administration
systems. Whereas the results of the interim program were generally
satisfactory, particularly with respect to financial stabilization, the
country's economic performance remained weak. The latter was moreover
affected by the severe 1983 drought, which had a strong negative impact on
agricultural production, hydro-electric energy generation and on river
transport which plays a key role in this land-locked country's external
trade. Nevertheless, the declining trend in GDP growth prior to 1982
appears to have been arrested, and over the past few years progress has
been made towards achieving a positive GDP per capita growth rate as was
the case in the 1960s. The Central African Republic is a large country
with an excellent and so far largely untapped agricultural and forestry
resource base, supplemented with mineral resources and hydro-electric
potential, but is constrained by a limited population and labor force, an
over-extended public sector and by its land-locked position. The
Government is convinced that, with appropriate concerted macro-economic and
sectoral policies, the country has good prospects for achieving a modest
and sustainable increase in real per capita income in the medium and long
term. Population is expected to continue to grow at about 2.5% per annum
and a GDP target growth rate of around 41 per annum is considered feasible.
3.        Over the past nine months, the Government has undertaken a
fundamental re-assessment of its development strategy in the context of
preparing a Development Plan for the period 1986-90. As a result, the
Government has recognized that policy measures initiated over the past few
years, while they are an excellent start, are insufficient to solve the
country's development problems and that a comprehensive and more intense
program of structural change is required to better exploit the economy's
growth potential.



-50-
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 26
4.        The Government's draft 1986-1990 Five-fear Plan outlines key
macro-economic and sectoral strategies and the major policy directions for
a medium-term economic and financial adjustment program. The Plan's
objective in the medium-term is to steer the economy back on a growth path.
The major elements of this strategic framework are: (i) to redefine the
role of the state in the economy, limiting it, as far as possible, to
provision of social services and priority infrastructure and leaving
production of goods and services to private initiative; (ii) to provide
greater production incentives to the private sector in agriculture,
forestry, mining, and small-scale industry, thereby creating employmeat;
(iii) to improve management of the parapublic sector; and (iv) to reform
the public administration and reduce the numbers of civil servants and
state employees while upgrading their professional skills.
5.        The broad strategic directions of the 1986-1990 Five-Year Plan
were endorsed by the Council of Ministers in early 1986. A preliminary
draft of the plan document was reviewed with the CAR's principal financial
partners in March 1986 and detailed revisions are now being made. A final
version of the plan is scheduled to be discussed at a UNDP Round Table at
the end of 1986. The Government is determined to take all the steps and
measures required promptly in order to achieve its medium-term growth
objectives. It has consequently prepared a detailed action program of
structural change, to be implemented over the next 18 months, in order to
progressively alter the structure of the Central African economy. This
program of structural adjustment and reform is described below.
THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Basic Objective
6.        To achieve its medium-term objective of a 4% self-sustained
annual growth rate, the Government will pursue the following:
(i)  an agricultural-led growth strategy based on comparative
advantage and a progressive opening up of the economy to the
interplay of market forces;
(ii) a retrenchment of the public sector towards those activities
for which it is best suited;
(iii) the mobilization of public and private resources in order to
increase the domestic savings rate; and
(iv) a financial strategy designed to mobilize resources in
amounts sufficient to support the program, on concessional
terms, and in directions dictated by the Plan priorities and
the accompanying public investment program.
7.        The implementation of this structural adjustment strategy will
necessarily involve a series of short- and medium-term measures at both the
macro-economic and sectoral levels for the following areas:



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 26
I.   Macro-economic Management
II.  The Agricultural Sector
III. The Forestry Sector
IV.  Small and Medium Enterprises
V.   The Mining Sector
IV. Public Administration
V.  The Parapublic Sector
VI. Administration of the Adjustment Program
I. MACRO-ECONOMIC MANAGEKENT
B.        Medium-Term Framework.  In the cont'xt of its 1986-1990 Develop-
ment Plan, Government has prepared a strategac framework which it believes
will help sbift the focus of its actions from individual, isolated measures
towards a concerted and coherent policy package. Only in this way can the
overall policy environment be made more conducive to increased output from
the productive sectors and greater coherence be achieved between
macro-economic and sectoral objectives on the one hand, and strategy and
policy instruments on the other.
9.        In order to achieve consistency in the management of the economy,
the Government will:
(i)  refine and quantify its medium-term framework (1986-1990
Development Plan) by September 1986;
(ii) draw up guidelines to ensure compatibility among the
differ..at sectors and facilitate definition of sertoral and
macro-economic priorities (July 1986);
(iii)  finalize the revised Five-Year Plan document (1986-1990
Development Plan) before presentation to the Round Table
scheduled for the latter part of 1986 (October 1986); and
(iv) prepare a 1987 annual economic program consistent with its
medium-term framework (end-1986).
10.       Public Investment.  The achievement of a 4Z GDP growth per annum
is predicated on increasing substantially the share of investment in GDP
over the Plan period. The Government recognizes that it must disengage
from commercial and directly productive activities sectors while
intensifying support for production and exports and particularly, social
and physical infrastructure services. Moreover, the Government will ensure



-52-
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 26
that its scarce domestic and external resources are directed to priority
areas to enhance the efficiency of its program to the maximum. To achieve
these objectives the Government will:
(i)  increase the share of public investment in GDP from an
approximate 9K in 1985 to 11% in 1990 in terms of national
accounts; 75% of these investments would be allocated to
priority sectors;
(ii) formulate a 1987 public investment program in line with the
above 1990 target and taking into account 1986 actuals; this
would translate into a rate of growth of public investment
o, approximately 8-9Z in real terms (end-1986);
(iit) prepare the 1987 public investment program in accordance
with its stated sectoral priorities, namely, rural
development (support to production) and infrastructure
(transport in support of trade and production) so that these
priority allocations will represent at least 75% of the 1987
program (December 1986);
(iv) introduce a system of three-year rolling public investment
programs (i.e., a Loi-Programme), starting with the
1987-1989 period, consistent with the medium-term strategy,
and distinguishing clearly between Central Government public
investment programs and those of the parapublic sector. All
parapublic enterprises will be requested to prepare the
necessary documentation (March 1987);
(v)  establish a unit in the Ministry of Plan for identifying,
evaluating and monitoring projects so that they correspond
to agreed priorities, have appropriate economic and
financial rates of return, and can be justfied in terms of
recurrent costs and debt-service burden (June 1987);
(vi) prepare a d7 Loi-Finance which will integrate physical and
financial public investment programming by reinforcing as of
now the coordination between the Ministries of Plan and
Finance so that the Loi-Programme will include both domestic
counterpart and foreign investment funds into its capital
expenditure component (December 1986).
11.       The Government will continue its dialogue with its major finan-
cial partners with respect to key projects, in order to reach a consensus
on:
(i) modifications necessary to the design of the ongoing OUAKA
sugar complex project, following reassessment based on newly
available data, to improve its economic and financial
viability and define the marketing arrangements needed;



-53-
ANNME V
Page 7 of 26
(11) redesigning the coffee development project in the Center
Western zone based on more realistic assumptions (December
1987); and
(iil) the village Palm Oil project, now at the technical sad
economic feasibility stage (September 1986).
12.       Private Investment. A basic element of the Government's develop-
m.'ut strategy rests on improving the policy environment within which the
private sector can play the role assigned it in the Plan. This is
reflected partly through the emphasis that the Government is placing on Its
public investment program, particularly on priority allocation of funds to
support directly productive activities while at the same timn withdrawing
from these activities. In this area, the Government will:
(i) strive to increase the share of private investment in GDP
from an estimated 1985 level of 2.5Z to approximately 4% in
1990 in terms of national accounts. the Government realizes
that its control over the achievement of this target is a
function of its ability to create a favorable and stable
climate for private sector activity;
(Ii) put in place the necessary instruments to monitor nnnual
levels of private investment beginning in 1987 (November
1986); and
(iai) revise the laws regulating private sector activity to remove
administrative barriers (March 1987).
13.       Fiscal Policy.  While the supply response measures to be proposed
in the productive sectors are expected to lead to increases in income and
eventually to savings in the private sectors, it is in the sphere of the
state budget and public enterprises that domestic resource mobilization
Xmasures can be most successful in the short and medium term. In the
context of a tight monetary policy, improvements in the fiscal balance
could also contribute to a greater availability of resources for the
private sector. With regard to fiscal revenues, the Government will find
the correct level of coverage for a given tax or a given tax rate in order
to encourage economic activity while discouraging tax evasion and fraud.
Particular attention will be given to export and import texes in order to
encourage exports and provide adequate protection for domestic production.
With respect to expenditures, the Government will steadfastly pursue its
current stabilization efforts supported by the EMF program. The Government
Intends to:
(i) achieve Government saving rates of 1.1% of GDP in 1986, 1.42 in
1987 and 2.3% in 1990. These objectives are based on a 10 to 112
nominal growth in budgetary receipts, and a 5 to 62 ceiling on
the growth of current budgetary expenditures;
(ii) stimulate receipts in 1986, 1987, and beyond, by:



-54-
ANNEX V
Page 8 of 26
(a) creating a high-level commission to elimuinate tax and
customs duty evasion (April 1986);
(b) strict application by CAISTAB of directive No. 001/rEF/CAB
on cash payment of the coffee export tax (May 1986);
(d) as part of the modified tax system for diamond exports, the
Government has already increased the valeur mercuriale (in
line with Antwerp prices) on which the tax is calculated and
intends to define an appropriate system for classification
of diamonds. The Government is also proceeding with
training of national evaluators to prevent undervaluation of
diamonds;
(e) in accordance with the Stand-By Program, establishing a de-
tailed statement of tax and customs arrears and identify
means to recover them;
(f) strengthening tax coflection by Improving assessment proce-
dures and personnel skllls (December 1986); and
(g) studying the efficiency of the tax system in cooperation
with the IMF (September 1986);
(iii) With respect to current expenditures in 1986, 1987, and beyond:
(a) reduce by 1990 wages and salaries to about 50% of receipts
from its 1985 level of 65.2%;
(b) apply strictly the civil service recruitment rule of one
franc of hiring for three francs of saving (Article 51, Loi
des Finances, 1986);
(c) diminish the number of civil servants by immediate applica-
tion of decisions already taken on retirement, the
redeployment of certain civil servants to activities which
make better use of their skills and consolidation of certain
redundant or overlapping activities through institutional
restructuring;
(d) continue its measures to decrease non-salary current expens-
es as necessary (a 9O0 ceiling was fixed in May 1986) in the
latter months of the 1986 and 1987 budgets to compensate for
possible slippage in fiscal revenue targets (December 1986,
December 1987); and
(iv) With respect to the parapublic sector:
(a) prepare the 1985 and 1986 consolidated accounts for the
parapubllc sector (March 1987);



-55-
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 26
(b)  institute a process for producing these accounts annually
from 1987 onwards (March 1987); and
(c) encourage the parapublic enterprises to pay their external
debts from their own resources.
14.       External Debt Management. After three external debt
reschedulings in the last five years, the Government is now firmly commit-
ted to avoiding any further rescheduling as far as possible. This would
increase international confidence in the growth prospects of the Central
African economy and in the CGovernment's commitment to the required adjust-
ment measures. Following the November 1985 Paris Club agreements, there
seems to be little scope lef:, in any case, for rescheduling arrangements
of any magnitude. However, since the external debt service is estimated to
be very large in 1989, the Government is fully aware that its objective is
subject to the successful implementation of the IMF-supported stabilization
program in the short term and of its structural adjustment program in the
medium term.
15.       To improve management of the external debt, the Government will:
(i) conclude all bilateral rescheduling agreements within the
time frame prescribed by the Paris Club (July 1986);
(ii) conclude all agreements to consolidate external arrears
accumulated before 1980 (December 1986);
(iii) accumulate no new arrears;
(iv) neither contract nor guarantee any new nonconcessional loans
(grant element less than 25%) with maturities of less than
12 years. The Government will inform IDA, before signature,
of the conditions of any such loans in excess of a US$5
million equivalent value. The Government will also not
engage in short-tern borrowing (less than one year),
excluding normal trade credits;
(v) introduce better control procedures for debt service to be
paid directly by the beneficiaries (CFAF 400 million in 1986
and at least 50% of the parapublic sector guaranteed and
on-lent debt service in 1987), to ensure that beneficiaries
promptly meet the debt service payments for which they are
directly responsible;
(vi) elaborate a policy on guarantees and on-lending with the
objectives of i) limiting new guarantees to those parapublic
firms with a good repayment record only; ii) setting
on-lending terms to the parapublic sector that fully cover
CAADEts risks; and iii) neither guaranteeing nor on-lending
any new private sector debt (September 1986); and



-56-
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 26
(vii) reinforce the managerial capacity of the CAADE by:
(a) setting up a staff training program (September 1986),
(b) intr3ducing an accounting framework compatible with
UDEAC's, and
(d) continuing with computerization of internal accounting
and external debt data (July 1987).
16.       Training for Public Employees. To ensure good management of the
economy, the Government will see to it that staff turnover does not run
counter to the objectives of the program and that staff who have received
technical training remain in their posts for as long a time as possible.
17.       Price and Trade Incentives Policy.  Having opted for free
enterprise and the promotion of private investment as its development
strategy, the Government now sets as its objective the establishment of a
policy of full verite des prix and the primacy of market forces to assure
more effective resource allocation within the economy. To encourage
development of agriculture and private investment, the Government will
progressively liberalize its price policy and the trade regime lncluding
that for imports and exports except in the case of certain goods for which
there is no assured competition. The Government intends to abolish
indicative prices for locally grown food crops (July 1986)and establish an
Interministerial Committee (July 1986) to reform Law No. 60/193 in keeping
with the desired price liberalisation through:
(i)  progressive elimination of price controls on imports by
group of products according the following schedule:
September 1986 - products subject to lawful margins of 25Z
(wholesale) and 50% (retail); January i987 - products
subject to lawful margins of 20% (wholesale) and 35%
(retail); March 1987 - products subject to a fixed absolute
margln.   Within these groups, exceptions may be made for
certain basic necessities for which there is presently no
assured competition.
(ii)  the elimination of price fixing procedures on locally
produced goods by March 1987.
(iii)  study the domestic market structure of key imports in order
to identify entry barriers, credit problems and problems
with the dissemination of information (January 1987).



-57-
ANNEX V
Page 11 of 26
18.       The following actions will be taken with respect to the trade
regime in the context of the reform of Law No 60/193:
(i) for goods In competition with locally produced goods:
- aboliticn of the "jumelage" import quota system
(August 1986); and
- introduction of an adequate tariff system as a form of
protection for those local industries that have a
demonstrated need for it (January 1987); if it proved
impossible to provide adequate protection In this way, a
system of Import authorisations might be applied;
accordingly, a study on tariff structure will be carried out
to help the Government implement policy measures that
promote economic efficiency;
Cii) for otH^r imports:
- elimination of Import licences (January 1987);
(iii) reinforce customs control procedures.
(iv) substitute the export authorization system by an export
declaration system (January 1987).
19.       The Government will arrange for technical assistance to help the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry fulfill its new role in the economy
(October 1986).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
20.       The Government clearly recognizes that agriculture, which ac-
counts for about 40% of GDP and 60% of merchandise exports and employment,
is to be the main engine of growth in the economy. It will therefore seek
to redirect agricultural activities in the direction of comparative advan-
tage and to eliminate institutional inefficiencies that hinder production
for exports. The identification of areas for export diversification will
be emphasised. Increasing rural incomes and improving rural-urban terms of
trade will be central to this strategy. The Government intends to design
its adjustment progra in agriculture around three key areas: coffee,
cotton and fooderops. The program will be supported by far-reaching
institutional reform with the objective of developing the required institu-
tional and policy instruments. This reform wils, however, respect the
established budgetary constraints and will be consistent with the overall
public administration reform program.
21.       Coffee.  Robusta coffee is the moot important export crop in
terms of value added and foreign exchange earnings. Production, which
stood at an average of 16,000 tons in the period 1980-82, declined severely
in 1983 as a result of a severe drought. Since then, production recovered
strongly in 1984-85, but romained well blow the peaks achieved earlier.
The Government realizes that part of this inability, to date, to restore



-58-
ANNEX V
Page 12 of 26
early 1980 production levels is due to the substantial decline in the
output of industrial plantations which in the period 1980-82 averaged 25%
of total output.
22.       The Government intends to do all in its power to increase coffee
production substantially and achieve its medium-term growth target. The
Plan target is 25,000 tons for 1990 but the Government recognizes that this
can only be achieved with major increases in new plantings by small holders
and extensive rehabilitation of existing industrial estates. The Goverr-
ment also intends to provide the necessary incentives for farmers to
gradually increase marketing of 'hulled' rather than 'cherry' coffee.
Moving towards this target implies a rigorous coffee reform program as
outlined below:
(i)  an increase in nominal terms of 262 in producer prices for
the 1986-87 campaign (to be announced July 1986);
(ii) define by July 1986 measures to improve the quality of
coffee exports including an increase in the price
differential for various grades;
(iii) a further increase in producer prices in real terms for the
1987-88 campaign to be announced in June 1987 following the
study of the subsector pricing system (see vii);
(iv) propose by September 1986 a set of measures to encourage
Increased production by industrial plantations (over 20 ha),
through addressing the specific problems of theft, labor
shortages, import taxes on equipment and spare parts,
inadequate rural roads, and technical problems (diseases,
pruning, etc.);
(v)  undertake a study of ADECAF's management and implement
recommendations (September 1986);
(vi) undertake an audit of the accounts and management of the six
coffee cooperatives (September 1986);
(vii) undertake by September 1986 a study of the coffee subsector
which examines in detail the pricing system and the
i"terlinkages of private and public agents involved; in
particular, the study will examine the role, organization,
and program of ADECAF and GIRs, and, together with the
studies referred to in (v) and (vi) above, develop a set of
measures for improving subsector performance and efficiency
by January 1987.
23.       Cotton.  Cotton is the most important export crop in terms of
area grown and the number of producers. Major steps have been taken to
improve the performance of SOCADA and revive cotton production. Between
1980 and 1984 farmers' incentives improved through a nearly 70% increase in



-59-
ANNEX V
Page 13 of 26
the producer price which contributed to the doubling of cotton production
and yields.  These gains have been offset by the coflapse of world market
prices which are now at their lowest level in a decade.  As a result,
SOCADA faces large losses and an estimated deficit of CkAF 15 billion over
the next two years (50% of which has already been incurred).  It has
responded by adopting an austerity budget for 1985-86 and a study has been
undertaken to define cost-reducing measures and increase efficiency and
revenues over the period 1986-88. Based on the preliminary results of this
study, the Government has adopted a policy aimed at reducing cotton
production and freezing producer prices. Measures taken under that policy
are as follows:
(i) reduce the Government's support program to cotton production
in marginal zones (28,000 ha) for the 1987-88 campaign
(March 1987);
(ii) eliminate gradually input subsidies according to the
following time frame:
1986/87        1987/88         1988189
Insecticides     49%             25%              0%
Fertilizers      36%             20%              0%
(iii) reduce ginning capacity (closures of Alindao, Ndim and
Grimari ginneries in June 1986 for the duration of the
cotton crisis lasts) and reduce collection and transport
capacity in marginal zones (phase I, June 1986);
(iv) carry out a study of the vegetable oil market identifying
the requirements for each type of oil and refrain from
re-opening Alindao oil mill unless the study concludes that
the mill will be financially and economically profitable;
(v) Implement by June 1986 the first phase of cost-reducing
measures for SOCADA including operational costs, staff
reductions, and strengthen management structures; define a
second series of cost-cutting measures (September 1986);
(vi) freeze producer prices at the current levels (March 1986);
and
(vii) carry out a study on the medium- to long-term prospects of
the cottou subsector which includes: (i) macroeconomic
analysis, (ii) projections of future production levels for
the period 1990-1991; (iii) adapting structures to sustain
forecast production levels; (iv) economic and social impact
of potential production cut-back; and (v) identifying
possibilities for transfer of labor. With respect to the
latter, particular emphasis will be placed on the role



-60-
ANNEX V
Page 14 of 26
played by the private sector in the subsector as a whole,
particularly as it affects the distribution of inputs (Terms
of Referen:e, June 1986; Study, September 1986).
24.       Food Crops.  Food crop production accounts for almost 40% value
added in the agricultural sector. Despite the large potential for in-
creased production, output has stagnated during a period of increasing
demand. The relatively small local market, the scattered nature of
foodcrop production, low population density, and deteriorated road and
market outlets, as well as attempts at controlling the market through
official "indicative" prices and the sole use of registered traders, are
among the factors contributing to this stagnation. To stimulate growth In
the sector and improve rural incomes and purchasing power the Government is
taking a number of actions, with the general objectives of food
self-sufficiency and seizing opportunities for export. These are:
Ci) issuance of relevant instructions and ordinances to abolish:
(a) licensing requirements for food-crop traders; (b) the
publication of official relative prices and market
quotations by individual municipalities; and (c) road
control posts (barriares Economigues).
(iI) review the food aid program and by June 1986 define the
steps to be taken to limit this assistance to levels that
would not have a negative impact on the demand for local
foodstuffs. Particular attention will be given to the food
aid distributed to workers in parapublic enterprises,
schools, and those participating in training programs to
restrict distribution overall and ensure that aid is granted
only to the neediest;
(iii) carry out a study of the competition between imported
(flour, milk) and locally produced foodstuffs (April 1987);
(iv) prepare a program for the rehabilitation and maintenance of
access roads and clarify institutional responsibilities for
its implementation and coordination (November 1986);
(v) initiate a program of regular collection of market
information (MDR and Office of National Statistics) and
prepare a draft proposal for dissemination of this
information by Radio Rurale (June 1987);
(vi) initiate, in November 1986, a comprehensive study exploring
export diversification possibilities, including for food
crops. Results from the study would form the basis of a
specific action program for export promotion (February
1987); and



-61-
ANNEX V
Page 15 of 26
(vii) prepare a detailed national program for food crop research,
in particular for manioc, and establish links with
international research programs (December 1986).
25.       In its medium-term program, the Government will promote its
liberalisation policy, initiate appropriate action based on the results of
the studies to be undertaken and monitor the short term effects of the
measures it takes. Export formalities will be simplified and ways sought
of decreasing the cost of commercial transactions so as to increase produc-
er incentives and and cut consumer costs. This would also open up opportu-
nities to export goods for which the country has a comparative advantage
aed thereby improve the trade balance. Reforms should be carried out in
the Ministry of Rural Development to improve applied research and increase
seed production; these reforms should keep pace with the identification of
national objectives, priorities and programs.
26.       CAISTAB.  Given the importance of CAISTAB's resources for the
GovernmenOT'sinvTstaent and stabilization efforts in agriculture, their use
should be well defined and coordinated within the Government's mac-
ro-economic planning process. In the last few years CAISTAB's stabiliza-
tion role has in effect given way to an increased amount of financing of
investment and operating costs of agricultural programs and other
activities which appeared more urgent. Consequently, although the
Government now faces a crisis situation in the cotton sector, only limited
financial help can be provided for the 1985-86 year as much of CAISTAB's
resources have been committed elsewhere.
27.       To avoid such a recurrence in the future and provide a better
balance between the principal uses of CAISTAB funds, the Government will:
(i) define and institute a technical Reserve Fund to guard the
economy against major fluctuations in world market prices
for the country's major export crops (December 1986);
(ii) earmark 101 of the coffee marketing margin for the Technical
Reserve Fund in 1987 (March 1987);
(iii) allocate 20% of this revenue to the Reserve Fund for the
remaining years of the Plan (1988,1989 and 1990);
(iv) starting in the 1986-87 year, impose a ceiling of 25% of
receipts for financing agricultural programs; the remaining
652 in 1986-87 (and the corresponding 55Z in the later
years), would be primarily used for stabilization (December
1986);
(v) for 1986-87, prioritize stabilization funds (65% of
CAISTAB's receipts) towards helping SOCADA implement its
rehabilitation and reform program and cover its financial
deficits (December 1986);



-62-
ANNEX V
Page 16 of 26
(vi) beginning in 1987, ensure the integration of CAISTAB'a
investment financing activities with the public investment
program, in close collaboration with the Ministries of Rural
Development, Finance, and Plan (October 1986);
(vii) require CAISTAB to produce a provisional 1986/87 budget by
July 1986;
(viii) provide for a complete transparency of technical operations
accounts beginning 1986-87;
(ix) review the organization, procedures, and statutes of CAISTAB
in the light of the above measures (March 1987); and
(x) given the recent decline in cotton prices and the measures
proposed, review the Convention between CAISTAB and SOCADA
(July 1986).
III. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
28.       While forests are extremely important in traditional rural life
in CAR (as a source of firewood, charcoal, and building materials), the
modern forestry sector is also an important source of rural employment and
contributes significantly to foreign exchange earnings. It is, however,
only exploited at a fraction of its estimated potential. The combined
contribution of the modern and traditional forestry sectors to GDP is
approximately 7% but exports of forestry products have actually declined as
a percentage of total exports from 27.9% in 1981 to 18.1% in 1985. In viev
of the declining demand for tropical wood products on the world market, it
is essential to concentrate efforts to make the domestic wood market more
dynamic and to overcome the constraints presently facing the sector. These
constraints include insufficient knowledge of the country's forest
resources, lack of access roads to forest areas, long distances to
seaports, an inefficient forest industry, an underdeveloped forestry
service and administration, and inappropriate forestry and taxation
legislation. In the modern sector, the present system of relatively
short-term concessions provides little incentive for concessionaires to
allow forest regeneration. Uncontrolled utilization of forest resources by
small entrepreneurs in the traditional sector, mainly for firewood and
charcoal production, leads to degradation of forest areas and environmental
damage. The Government's broad policy for the sector is to develop the
rational use of its resources and at the same time introduce a system of
forest management to protect this important renewable resource. The
objectives are to increase quality, to improve the competitiveness of sawn
timber exports, to open up new forest areas, and to strengthen the forestry
administration. The short-term actions envisaged are:
(i) a reduction of import taxes on machinery and spare parts,
for a period of three years in order to make the forest
industry more competitive (January 1987);



-63-
ANNEX V
Page 17 of 26
(ii)  a transfer of the assets of the recently liquidated Sociht&
d'Exploitation Foresti&re et Industrielle (SOCEFI) to the
private sector by December 1986;
(iii) an audit of the operational and financial performance of the
Office National des Forets (ONF) to be carried out during
the period June-September 1986. On the basis of this audit,
a redefinition of the objectives and function of ONF in
relation to those of the Ministare du Tourisme, des Eaux et
Forets, Chasse et Peches (MTEFCP) to be implemented by
January 1987;
(iv) lifting of price controls on domestically marketed sawn wood
by September 1986;
(v) a review of the present system of concessions and
preparation of a proposal to introduce longer-term
concessions encouraging firms to improve their management
and pay greater attention to forest protection and
regeneration (September 1986); and
(vi) completion of ongoing studies on the relative efficiency
between road and river transport routes, and improvement of
the current system in use by SOCATRAF, including a review of
SOCATRAF/ACCF's prices.
29.       Other medium-term actions include:
(i) revision and simplification of the present forestry taxation
system in order to provide incentives for increasing
exploitation, providing security in employment, encouraging
local processing into sawn timber and finished products,
improving forest protection and regeneration, and increasing
Government revenues. The five separate taxes presently
levied would be reduced to three and taxation would be
indexed to world prices. The revision would be completed by
end 1986 and, as well as indicating a timetable for the
introduction of the new system, it would stipulate the
period and conditions for recovery;
(ii)  continued and increasing emphasis on construction,
improvement and maintenance of roads and bridges in the main
forest areas under the 1986-1990 highway program (priority
will be given to the Boda-Yamando section);
(iii) institutional strengthening of the Ministry responsible for
forests to build up technical capacity to carry out all
functions required for sound planning, management, and
control; and



-64-
ANNEX V
Page 18 of 26
(iv) improvement of forest protection through a system of persits
for the small entrepreneurs who cut wood for firewood and to
make charcoal. The exact area to be worked would be
defined, conditions would be set, and the activity would be
supervised and controlled. These measures would be
complemented by an extension campaign on substitutes for
fuel wood for which a study will be carried out (January
1987).
IV. SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISES
30.       The development of small- and medium-scale private enterprises is
important for the success of the Government's policy reform program. In
light of the redeployment of labor away from the public sector, growth nf
alternative employment opportunities in the private sector would be
required. The small size of the domestic market, the country's landlocked
position, and the lack of financial savings suggest that private sector
development will need to be concentrated initially in small- and
medium-scale enterprises. To generate the necessary supply response from
the SHEs, the Government intends to:
(i) carry out a study on the institutional setting and Incentive
structure most likely to increase financing for SMEs and
increase their efficiency (October 1986). The study wll.
identify the principal measures Government should take;
implementation would follow discussions of recommendations
with the main donors at the next Round Table Conference;
(ii) revise the Investment Code and other legislation (e.g.,
public procurement procedures) pertaining to SNEs (December
1986); and
(iii)  create a light, highly operational and non-bureaucratic SME
promotional agency (CAPMEA) endowed for the present with a
limited number (10) of competent managerial and technical
staff (June 1986).
V. THE MINING SECTOR
31.       With respect to mining, diamond production, presently accounting
for more than 20% of merchandise exports, and gold production will be
promoted with the objective of attaining the export levels achieved in the
sixties. However, the diamond sector is characterised by high levels of
clandestine exports and fraud. The objective, therefore, will be not only
to increase overall production and exports, but to encourage the use of
official channels for production and export. The Government will pursts
its fight against fraud by:
(i) training national assessorr (ongoing);



-65-
ANNEX V
Page 19 of 26
(ii)  defining a more appropriate diamond classification system
(May 1986);
(iii)  introducing a new valeur mercuriale a 1'exportation in
dollar terms for raw diamonds to be adjusted every three
months in relation to the variations in the-market for raw
diamonds (May 1986);
(iv)  improving incentives through a commission system for nation-
al evaluators at a rate of 1% of tax receipts (estimated
cost CFAF 15 million per year) (July 1986);
(v) creating a special fund (CFAF 200 million initially) for
regulating the export value of diamonds to allow the Minis-
try of Mining to buy diamonds assessed at less than the
world price (July 1986). This Fund would be operational In
October 1986;
(vi)  improving incentives for the Minlng brigades through a
commission system to be defined (August 1986);
(vii)  increasing the number of Mining Brigades from three to five
and reinforcing their logistical means, that is, vehicles,
spare parts, gasoline, etc. (January 1986);
(viii)  completing the final stages of reducing the diamond export
tax (January 1987).
32.       Measures will also be taken to increase production and exporte of
mineral products by:
(1)  inviting foreign firms to participate in the national
diamond and gold industries (ongoing);
(ii)  reinforcing the operations of the Ministry of Mining by
procuring equipment for evaluation and prospecting, setting
in place a geochemical laboratory and completing the biblio-
graphical collection available at the Ministry in order to
assess the country's full mining potential. Funds will be
included in the 1987 budget to cover these activities;
(iii)  providing technical assistance to small producers (ongoing);
and
(iv)  continuing to implement the artisanal gold production
(promotion d'or artisanal) project.



-66-
ANNEX V
Page 20 of 26
VI. THE CIVIL SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
33.       Government policy on the public service and administrative reform
is to consolidate measures already taken, speed up the process of adminis-
trative reform in certain sectors where it has begun and extend it to all
ministries. This policy is based on four key objectives, the first of
which is to strike a balance between the wage bill and budgetary receipts
by the end of the five-year plan period ([990). The wage bill should at
most account for no more than 50X of budgetary receipts. In addition,
regular obligatory retirement will, in future, be the rule and payment of
family allowances for children above the eligible age will stop by the end
of July 1986 - this is expected to reduce payments by 5,000 children per
month. The present average of eligible children for family allowances will
be progressively reduced and proof of eligibility will be strictly
verified. A study will be carried out, at the latest by March 1987, to
define the ways, means and costs of establishing a new family allowance
system.
34.       Measures affecting recruitment to, and departure from, the civil
service will also be taken to reduce the number of employees on the public
payroll. Selection Procedures for entry into the civil service will be
established by September 1986 and will be applied to the 1534 interns whose
contracts are about to expire as well as to regular recruitment. The
principle of selection was established and approved by the law of December
9. 1983 and will be applied according to the "1 franc for 3" rule.
Personnel numbers are thought excessive and will be reduced by means of
general staffing plans, applied ministry by ministry. The objectivre of
these plans is to rationalise the allocation of civil service personnel by
defining the number and profiles of posts required in each ministry. The
staffing plans will be executed as a matter of priority in the following
ministries: Public Service, December 1986, Rural Development, by July
1986, Economy and Finance, November 1986. All ministries will be covered
by the end of 1987. Other priority ministries are Commerce, Forestry, and
Plan.
35.       By March 1987, a mechanism will be established to facilitate
voluntary departures from the civil service and/or transfer to the private
sector of supernumerary civil servants.  This mechanism or "Personnel Bank"
would be based on the staffing plans of the various ministries and would
comprise:
- reassignment within the public sector, where justified by an
existing need, of some redundant staff who would be given the
opportunity for retraining;
- establishment and implementatUon of a system of assisted
voluntary departure from the civil service; employees quitting
the public service under this system would receive
compensation (amount to be determined). In certain
circumstances, the Government may consider using some or all of



-67-
ANNEX V
Page 21 of 26
these compensation funds to facilitate the reintegration of
employees into the private sector, in concert with its policy
on SMEs.
The "Personnel Bank" will be set up in stages: the measures outlined above
for reassignment and assisted voluntary departure should be operational by
the end of 1986 and would keep pace with the implementation of the
ministerial staffing plans. Since these measures will only need to be
implemented once, institutional arrangements will be limited in scope, and
administrative structures will be kept to a minimum.
36.       The Government intends to take measures to reorganise administra-
tive structures and establish rules for their creation, suppression,
modification and management. It will impose an immediate freeze on all
organisation charts presently being drawn up or approved. This is a
holding, temporary measure closely linked to operation of the staffing
plan. Its purpose is to encourage the ministries to implement their
staffing plans as rapidly as possible.
37.       Measures to rationalise the administrative and financial manage-
ment of public employees will include:
(i)  establishment of an administrative management guide through
the classification and operational presentation of some 600
existing rules (July 1986);
(ii) immediate freeze of all statutes currently being prepared or
in the process of being approved; more specifically, freeze
of the draft Statute on Scientific Research;
(iii) simplification and revision of the Statute on the Public
Service (December 1987); and
(iv) reorganization of the Public Service archives, to be
followed by reorganization of the State.
These measures will be accompanied by definition of the respective roles of
the Public Service Ministry and the sectoral ministries in the administra-
tive management of public employees.
38.       Measures to improve financial management will be:
(i)  the linking of budget items to authorized posts
(September 1986);
(ii) new, computerised management of the deficit system (opera-
tional end-1987); and
(iii) revision and simplification of the bonus, allowance, and
salary supplement system.
39.       Personnel TrainIng.  The Government accords high priority to
personnel training and intends: i) to revise the educational system in the



-68-
ANNEX V
Page 22 of 26
light of the nation's basic needs; and ii) redefine its policies on ad-
vanced and professional training in order to establish rational and coher-
ent guidelines based on the existing structures.
VII. THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
40.       Over the last fifteen years, the parapublic sector has gradually
spread into various sectors of the economy in order to make up for the
absence of a dynamic private sector and now comprises nine State
Enterprises, 26 Mixed Economy Enterprises and 11 Public Offices. Their
performance over recent years has been characterised by recurrent financial
loss, low productivity and acute shortages of operating funds and competent
personnel. This has resulted in the necessity for increased State subsi-
dies and' mounting-arrears both to the State (taxes, customs duties) and to
other companies.
41.       In recognition of the magnitude of these problems, the Government
has undertaken to restructure certain enterprises and rationalise its
intervention in the sector. The Banque Nationale de D6veloppement, the
Banque Nationale Centrafricaine de Depots, the Banque Centrafricaine
d'Investissement, the Librairie Centrafricaine, the Compagnie Nationale des
Transports Routiers and Centra-Hydro have already been liquidated. The
decision has also been taken to liquidate the Societe Centrafricaine
d'Exploitation Forestiere et Industrielle. The activities of Inter-RCA
have been suspended and responsibility for its national airline services
transferred to the army while its liabilities can be settled. Finally, the
Government has started to seek partners for the privatisation of SIRIRI
(Insurance). and SICPAD (oil mills).  The Comptoir National du Diamant
(CND), responsible for diamond cutting, has been restructured.
42.       As part of the adjustment program, Government has redefined the
principal responsibilities of the State which, in future will be limited
to:
- Education and training;
- Public health;
- Public services such as water supply, electricity and
urbanisation;
- Basic infrastructure;
- Internal security and natlonal defense; and
- Justice.
For the remainder, especially production of goods and provision of
services, reliance will be placed on the private sector. At the same time,
the Government will institute reforms aimed at improvement in the
efficiency and productivity of the parapublic sector through: i) reduction
of overheads and numbers of employees; ii) increased managerial autonomy;
iii) progressive liberalisation with gradual introduction of the principle
of market prices (verite des prix) in the strategic enterprises and



-69-
ANNEX V
Page 23 of 26
application of the principles governing the private sector in the others;
iv) progressive elimination of direct and indirect subsidies and transfers
to alleviate the burden of the parapublic sector on the State budget;
v) progressive transfer of non-strategic and non-priority activities to the
private sector; and vi) liquidation of enterprises whose economic and
financial profitability cannot be restored. The program is made up of two
sets of measures: those applicable to the sector as a whole and those
applicable to specific enterprises.
43.       The first part of the program comprises a series of short-term
actions as follows:
(i) The elaboration, by September 30 of a rationalization plan
separiting commercial activities of production and sale of
goods and services from those which are predominantly
administrative. The plan would identify for each economic
sector: i) those enterprises which were priorily candidates
for divestiture (privatisation or liquidation); ii) those
enterprises or activities in need of restructuring; and
iii) those enterprises whose independent existence cannot be
justified and which should be amalgamated either with
another enterprise or another Government agency.
(fti) The completion by December 31, 1986 of liquidations an-
nounced in 19B5.
(iii) An immediate five-year moratorium on the creation of State
Enterprises or Mixed Economy Enterprises in which the State
would be the major shareholder.
(iv) An imediate halt to growth in total parapublic personnel
numbers above December 1985 staffing levels; the strict
observance by all State enterprises and offices of the "1
franc for 3" rule as defined in the 1986 Lot-Finances;
limitation and reduction of overhead expenses in the
parapublic sector; preparation of the staffing plans to
achieve an appropriate balance between real human resources
needs and the numbers, and quality of personnel; and the
gradual implementation of these plans over two years - 20
enterprises in 1987, the remainder in 1988.
(v) In the interim until investment plans have been drawn up,
the Government will establish a procedure to ensure that
parapublic loans (either on-lent or guaranteed) are for an
approved investment, are on terms and conditions acceptable
to the State, and that the enterprises are financing at
least 10% of their investment themselves.
(vi) Inclusion of sufficient amounts in the 1987 budget to meet
all forecast obligations (recurrent expenses and investment)
for parapublic enterprises, in particular Government



-70-
ANNEX V
Page 24 of 26
expenditure for services provided by ENERCA, SNE, OCPT and
TOCAGES - the amounts to be agreed between the enterprises
and the concerned minlstries and administrative agencies.
The Office of the Mayor of Bangui wilU be considered a part
of the State.
(vii) Identification, by December 31, 1986, of all debts and
arrears among enterprises and between enterprises, the
Government and the banks, together with preparation of a
plan for their settlement (a commission has already been
established for this purpose). Identification of possible
sources of financing.
(viii) Identification, by December 31, 1986. of all Government
subsidies and transfers for each enterprise and for the
sector as a whole. Fixing of a ceiling and progressive
reduction of Government subsidies. The target should be a
10% reduction in real terms in 1987 from 1986, after settle-
ment of the arrears referred to above.
(ix) The initiation of a study by October 1, 1986 to redefine the
legal and institutional framework of the parapublic sector.
44.       Medium-term actions are also included in the first part of the
program as follows:
(i) Quantitative and qualitative strengthening over the next two
years of the High Commission's capacity to monitor the
performance of the enterprises.
(ii) The establishment of a medium-term rolling investment and
financing plan progressively extended to ali enterprises in
the sector.
(iii) The carrying out of operational and accounting audits
necessary for the implementation of rehabilitation plans and
State divestiture from the sector.
45.       The general policies outlined above will be applied to all State
Enterprises and Offices. Specific programs will be defined within 24
months at the latest. In the event that diagnostic studies and action
plans cannot be prepared simultaneously for all the enterprises, Government
will deal with them in order of priority as follows: first, SICPAD, In-
ter-RCA, and SEGA the action plans for which are set out in Attachment I
and SOCADA and CAISTAB, the action plans for which are outlined on pp. 13
through 16 above; second, the Strategic Enterprises: SNE, OCPT, and ENERCA
for which detailed action plans will be drawn up by October 1986; third,
priority enterprises for which detailed action plans will be drawn up by
June 1987; and finally, other enterprises, for which the plans will be
drawn up by June 1988.



-71-
ANNE V
Page 25 of 26
VIII. ADMINISTRATION OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
46.       The Government recognizes that successful implementation of the
wide range of actions included in the program will require careful atten-
tion to the prescribed timetable. Accordingly, the Government intends to:
(i)  activate the Comit& de Suivi to follow up on the agreed calendar
closely, it will meet at least once a month to review progress,
identify delays, and prescribe remedies (July 1986);
(ii) issue a decree defining the composition, organization, and terms
of reference of this committee (July 1986);
(iii) strengthen implementation of the adjustment program
through a Presidential Directive to all Government agencies
(public and parapublic), stressing the importance of timely
implementation (July 1986); and
(iv) ensure that the Comite de Suivi is associated with the work of
the Commission in charge of examining the drafts of official
texts at the Presidency of the Republic (July 1986).
(v) the Government will take care that the national Coordinating
Committee on Economic and Financial Policy, the Comite de Suivi
and the Groupe de Surveillance (for the IMF stabilisation
program) work in close collaboration with the World Bank. The
national Coordinating Committee will be reponsible for ensuring
this.



ANNEX V
Page 26 of 26
-72-
ATTACHMENT I
ENTERPRISE          OBJECTIVES           NECESSARY ACTION
Inter-RCA            Suspension          Transfer of air service of
activities           responsibilities to the Air Force
(May 15, 1986).
Dismissal of personnel not absorbed
by the Air Force and who do not
have civil servant status (May 15,
1986).
Liquidation          Study profitability of a
or privatisatian    civil airline company for CAR.
Legal settlement of the company:
liquidation or transfer to private
sector by December 31, 1987.
SICPAD         Improve profitability    Decrease fixed costs, specifically,
and turnover              dismiss 35 personnel before
December 31, 1986.
Evaluate the possibilities for
renewed production on the basis of
-            market studies: oils, cattle feed,
(by December 31, 1986>.
Study and define a coherent
vegetable oil refining policy
(SICPAD, CENTRAPALM, SOCADA) by
December 31, 1986.
Privatisation       Evaluation with a view to
liquidation/privatisation.
Seek partners and appropriate means
for handover (all assets or by
lots: oil mill, soap factory, mill,
bottles).
SEGA                Make the Bangui      Intensify public relations campaign
abbatoir more       with butchers and muslims on pistol
profitable          slaughter (as soon as possible).
Develop meat         Evaluate possibilities
marketing and        expanding the meat national
export activities   through detailed study (by December
31, 1986).
Privatisation.      Seek private partners able to
facilitate a solution to the ritual
slaughter problem and permit
financial restructuring (as Boon as
possible).



Lwus/FbLicy CbJectives          Ackti  to be Tas by Gov't             Mtorable AtRet & Tixd   tn ad    aed
I. ltcro-edc t.
A. Deiws1  a cobnrst          Quantify msldwten  frasrk,           Revie by Mk for 9/86.                 Priest to 1WW Paud Ttle.
msiimrtennm frwvrk.       and refine Pisi Dwmat.               Finalize by 10/86.                    Revise cm aial batd .
Prepare a 1987 ecsnric progm  c-  Draft propa  to IMA by 12186.                 IW4rlUS14n plqmnim of
sistat with udiun-term scenario.   AMopt agrsWcm proa by 1/87.             fldir pros, for  t  yar.
B. Public In%vatm
Propm  (P2).
B. 1. Inre me the dsare mFon lat 1987 PIP.                        PIP wLU be wvrsind by                 Prepae PIPB of 1988, 1989,
of pulic bA nb   t                                            DA and alpted 12/86 (Sd  frda). and 1990 In im wit ,,im-
in GDP to I1% in 1990.                                                                             taI taEt.
Irntmts in priority actors          Allocatks to be revii by IDA.         P     e PIPs of 1988, 1989,
to be at least 75% of PIP.                                                cii 199O In lire with
altm pHoada.
B.2. lprmve investment       Introdice a system of thre-ya        Pepre 1987-1989 Ld-Progri             Loi-Progsm  to ba prepl
prpamdri process.       L`oi`P=ruae.                         by 3/87 (Seomd Trahe).                co an  wl bade.
Integrate camtarpnt and folgp       To be dar for 1987 blpt loi-          Pzuqrtim of oio-Fines
funda in capital budgat.            Fine  by 12/86 (Sm  Trude).           for foladgy , *uc.
Intmo&e in *te Miitry of PLn        Systan to be st up In 6/87.             1inpstatio  of myst:.
a project evab.tlm systeL
B.3. iqsve design of          AA  Suga, Caer4tn                    each  grint with major dnrs          ltmnsati of dwip dwr.
ajor projects.          Coffee, and Via   Pam-O               12/86.
Projects.
C. Public Reau:rce Mobi-     Adiave a 1. 12 ratio in 1986 and     Tazpt  oith Of  rrat oxpd-            The targt paid urate md
lization  in the ehor     a 1.4% ratio in 1987.                iture 5-6% per amn ad 10%-11%         be eflcted In t&  lot-Fin4
=m, met Stahb1i7Atiai                                          far receipts.                         of foflldig y>rs.
tarpts.
C.1. lmurs to lncreas   Strict applicaticm of dt.tiwv             To be ndtored by the IMP.
receipts.               an cash pyrnt of the coffoe
uwrt tax.
Prepare a detailed statnit of       To be monitored by the D1F.            nplntatiw of ple to            o
tax and astws area~m ad pin.fo. w
for their rwcery.



l /Pollcy 9cbCiV                Actlia  to be Taken by Gcpv't        bbitoroble Aesm   6  ttiblas         Follm-  and  PalW  Aam
lhertakm a study of the ffiti-     St*  to be           in 9/86          I      tatim of te recd-
qcy of the taxs Um.                 in caopri  vh 1MF7.                      PIWa   of the sbo  by
ud5-1987.
C.2. 1enr, to reduc          Aplplkatiim of I CFA hi.Ied p   3    Tl be uedtod by dte IP.              Ru to  bi  ofera    l 9
anmt xanif .    CFAF  si mne.                                         t                                       bl  of 1990 is
Iherem      xtl ea xpuidihrfi x    Apply aowS-d*,+od cts in   P4apm  I 1   if n19oesuy.
! F  it...                          mdch .cpext,   in 1986.
D. Pri  md Tymda i  x-
tivw.
D. .  IAb al  Prim          Propeaavely edUA,inte 4vin           M4diets Indicatt  lr 6               hYii An wIut   offo
Poicy                   contnrls on all ncaUly prod-         foad r   (7/86). Eldzat               of lhuulizatm.
ucd pruam by ~zdx 87.               pric  tola mx localLy pro'-
&mW gWoa  (3/87) (SB     fTe).
in-f-In    fixed 1nt    insr        Prmtmrm  ufan   Smnity    <t_ Snic      for
marins a iuiorted poas in dira      Now 1, by 1/87 (Secd Tmdm).           key  Io. 7fllzatiom
ata, Septwhit 86, J.wzy  87.                                              paz46 PC*y of Carft
d My 87-by idch ti. an1                                                   minatinn.
mdi controlas wii be lIfrt!-other
tbn for -atin binic  .cmitin 
for glirh ca,etile   cumt be1
mwd.
D.2. Lbraliza dob Trad       Abolish all quositatv rw-            Dar  to fl"x2at 'jmll      "         Mxdtor r.w4ut          .
P.                      trktitn crx td.                     qywtm (8/86).
InUv&m ad..qmtad  tariff            ThI1mt agumi-  prangr by              Thiatdm sOxdy  x DfoDm of
eysm. Reinfor csto  omt]al.  1/87.                                       tdff ftnb e to p m
eom.!n offidazcy.
Elbda  hcxort 1  a                 Dwr. by 1/87.                         1akor         , priow
pm&EtA dmit do  t           with                      *                        tr    flu3.
localy p=&uW Wad.
"etfite the d cprt aihiza-          lb  ecaplatd by 1/87.
tion eytm by ax aIqr declrm-
L MCt.a1 Debt  YaA    .                                                                                                                     0
El. Omlude 1985 rndhi-         To MD bwmxlmle by 7/86.             PAvi   -+--'I debt profi a m          Avoid fuithr   read2w.
*Ui agsrmta.                                                   b.ol ow  gpm.



Isi/toli  (tbiecrives           Actxzt to be Takec by Gbv't            kxiitonrble Actima & Tinmtabl       Fol3p ad  kes  Ation
E.2. Rdurs debt service        Accept oly cnceasicnal teM           No  w nt-e a                          Mtrdtored by IW and ML
burdam.                    (25% grat elet).                    debt of les  dim  12 yers.
No now arr .
E. 3. Elaborate a policy with    Izcrease debt service by tin       Public eterprises to pay CFAF          In lA   yan, thn objective
respect to publicly       bufiaries.   aborte policy            400 udllion an 50% of the             Is for the befirin  to
8urateed debt.            an garantees can cn-lding.            51rSt   debt service in 1986          py 100% of the debt eavrs.
axn 1987, repoetively.
lolicy uJborab  by 9/86.
E.4. Reinforme uniqial.        Thplamt a training pnrom for        S&d training prop  to mh by            Hxdtor propna an evaulte
capacity of dhe CAADE.    staff.                                9/86.                                 CAADE effiaory.
F. CAISTB: Defi  use of
CAISEA resurcs, in-
creas stabiflzatim role.
F. 1. &anark Ircresing ie-    Tnstitute a Techinil baeve            MhE to be instibitel 12/86. Eark    For the raing years of
smates for stnbilz-      Fn! (W) (Seoals Trutlh).              10% of CAISM  revma    in 1987 to     the Pim eask 20% of
stimL.                                                          hE? by 3/87 (Seond Truwsn).          coffea twre        to dio WIRE.
Qddalixr  for finanliw agi-          CEII  of 25% for des propsw           Com !am        a Cling  for
cultural proga.                      in 86/87 (Send Traidt).               fol1md.n yeas of Pa.
PrioritLze other rescea for          For 1986/87, 65% of rwcipts to        Rest of PFl  Neriod, 55% of
stabillzatim.                        be used for SOCADA (Sowd ITeads),   receipts tod for  itabLlz-
F.2. Twmrom coordination       IDAgate CAISAB' invesbt et           CAISTAB's le       t In 1987 PIP       Cotizru  in future yea.
and plaming in use        flnsaing activitie with the           by 10/86 (Sand Trar.e).
of CAI4esB rewnes.        PIP.
Provide for a complete tta-          Prelmizicy budpt for 1986(87          I.w   stat    at  bame
parcy of accmts.                     sent to mA by eS-Jly 1986.            dat datA for 1986/87 n
avyiUble to MA.
F.3. Redefin  futzze role       Reds orgadzatici, procedires          Propoals for dhmag  to be provided   Intrott  fur               a-,
Of CAAB.                  and stattes of CAISEAB.              to mA by 3/87 (Seocwld Trde).          ceptable tO MA, by start of
CAISTAB's 1987/88 flscal yaw.   v
Review new nige t  tween             New arrnamta to IDA by 7/86
S'XDA mid CAISAB.                    (SeoRd Trache).
-J



eams/Policy (bletives           Actfros to be Takt by Gov 't         ?xidtrahbla Actin & Timetablas       Eollup-W ad Rulated kcia
II. Agricultum
A. Coffee: izre.ee coffee       Irreses producer price for          Ammze price ifrreue by 7/86.           le  prices for the 1987/
productim to 25,000 ta       coffee frm CEAF 150 to CFAF                                               88 cegra  folladag the
by 1990 by xincresizg s1ll-  190 per kg.                                                               andy of thn star pricing.
hDider yiald ad  -   ad
rehabilitating inzxmtrlal    Prepme lnitial rehabilttim          Sad miA a draft prop  by 9186.        Further mea        to be idut-
platatiam.                   propa for irximtrl plantatkm                                              ifta  by tin sector stLdy.
Brcx alsmlholdkrs  Ixeruea  quality premin for          Anenew price differential             FoUw up thuzg the Agzk-
to Iel proas    coffee.      hl$c pa1e.                          for higr ad  In 7/86.                 otitmarl Se5    Mjtr
Project (MAP) I
ilprow lnadti        ad    Study ADflF's arplzatim ad              - i       n o ADKA  to Mk         DewIml mah-tom plm
pEau mi. to lo -            _r. hdt six coffee                   by 9/86, ad ofra    a peratives       of coffEe  b-actor to be
taZ ple for coffeo.                                              byUt .  b 9/86.                       aports iby pImpI ASP.
Ibjor  stuy of the coffee sPb-      bults of the study to be wal-         Iqit uItr  ASP project.
ator   hdilzg pricing syste         tie by 1/87.
ad the zue of public ml
prlvate its.
B. Cott: Rai le 1       by
B.1. Discourage prcizctim In  1f4tnaza paislly imt sb-              Redc  input  beisdi  for 86/87        Ipuit IAdis elFiad Ms
onriul        for the     sdAle axd rduon gl                   sczdig to edI&kuA (Sm                ad        to adhmdule-
1987/88 cmdp.             ad torc oor  c4iy.                  Trfw). Clm Alude, NTim ad
kiwl gislu1 by 6/86.
PRi  s         to ergiml            Pla 1987/88 cuei  by 3/87 ad            fofl-  dtro.a  SIfN of
-   far 87/88 camsdp.               nuntDad by MlL                        aww a          projecta
PZim- a macmdtdeailse prog          Prmgp  to be esmt to m]  by 9/86.
oE ftwtl cast-rwbctM
m_m         fDr SC0AAm.
B.2. Defia m1ud       to 1pr  ll drtah  in-dqpth stud of the       Tfl it to Mf  in 6/86.                 Meiu- to 1ag-em  prp    will
bwm cottn strateg.        viability of dfin attm sibsector.   Study to be strted in 9/86.           be ly elat of AAP project.
Study tevewtable oil        Ds.   Study we to MA by 12/86. Keep
Stauy rutc and fiz2alC ML ll clao   ums  fan! profitable.
viablity of the nlini  Oil MIi.                                                                           .1
C. Food Cpo:       u   pro-   Abollt  Ismlig requiUants             Dome  ad texts  t  to MA by
csdo 6m fa  i              for food crop trII, indicative       6/86.
tinmugd pric lberaliuatim  pric  ad all rum  contrl poss.
a81 uqimll deDd
fatr dt$c mcops.



IMM/PoFi   Ctjectivws                  to be T                                      lby Gtwtmle  a S Tinetables  Folls-W ud h:lted Ati
PrmDte local foodstuffs.   PR w the food-sid propt by 9/86.  Actio  pmgrp  sut to iDA by 10/86.   kyl.stadw  to follo .
Revs caqntitlxo  tsbemt iqcrted   hadlts a! proposed sin
ad locally pro&dx  foodstuffs.       ost to MA by 4/87.
DukiTp rrl roads.           Preae rdtabilltatian and miate-   PDI sat to MA by 11/86.                  Clarify upsll4I    for
m  pro .                                                                               a a  coordina
tiam.
Diveruficatiao aori-        CaqrewwFie study of nq        ortp-    Psilte of te soudy ad actin
cultural eaports.           ublitIa, incldhii  food aqrs.        propra to be set to IDA by 2/87.
III.    try
A. Reftrm of dte Ircetive     Rehn hlport rtrctlns ad taxi  RBaid hot  twa to be specified    Bvia forestry t.
stnicture.                 on pre partaidmnry, ete.             In 1987 Loide Fince.
for 3 yers.
Lift prime ccutrols ao datfally    Decree to be publAls  ad set to
probead sawmod.                      DA by 9/86.
RevSis c     anonsicx syste.         Proposals set to MA by 12/86.
B. UpLe infm r                Traufer of assets SOCEFI to the      Traufer to be empleted by 12/86.
atd trauprtL service,.   private sector.
Prepae edit of fics                  Sat to MA by 9/86.                   Pedfinitiat of ulens of
an operatiam  of W.                                                        (UN ar! Ministry of Foretry
by 1/87.
Caplete acorlr studius of the          hplai   of r-aatis                  Bcu1e forestry ad Faed
relative effiiary betwm  road        by 2/87.                              ro- proposals I    5th lffj
ad river trpor (10/86).                                                    wy Projeat.
IV. SteL-atd Mediu- Scale       Stt   inI tive stmCreb          P     esmlts set to MA by 10/86.          Iky]statiom oE sDt trt
fflspri.  PrEto             affectirg the SHE eator.                                                   n        lam   icid foUn diact-
anladaim scab                                                                                          id   of2omdtm  at
private mafacturlng.                                                                                   tinext Pand Table cweran.
Revise the imn tbmit code ad         Draft ttef seut to DA by 12/86.       After revie tteu to be          C x
otha  legislat-im.                                                         pclWbaday 
Create ME prutixr aml ag             Aga8c  to be created by 6/86.         Initially only li    ted
(CAPME&).                                                                  (10) of staff. 
V. JfrN: expad gol and
proczctimn ad
increas official eyports.



lTmm/Policy Cbj ectivs          Actic  to be Taken by Gov't           Mkitarable Actiox  & Tihmtable       Foliw   and Rled At:[a
A. Bxlareaga of fidel Abdify the diu     xport tax.              The Tax rate redud by 1/87.
Improve the evaluatim stx for        InCzbx   uimi    ys= aid
duvft!B.                             create special fund by 7/86.
Izxreaa  effidlcy and miber of       IW=Am c.ndsusea uytin by          n      ros          fr   3 to 5 ly
ainirg brilIua.                      8/86.                                 12/86.
VI. Publi Acdniatmtia
A. Achiev a balac betwe   ftEfoore regula  oblibtory             To be 4tored by DA.
wp bKUl anl budgetary   retirmt.
rsipts.  hW i   n
I re tham 54t of hxlpt-  Octl fil.y allcwme rolls.   P eia              g7   with M& cc z               l t !-ng   Tqlmmt  a '  of stuy
ary reslpts by the aw    Defim a    faniy allcAin             fadly alUows  In 9/86. Study a    after rev:Uw by mA.
of 1990).                systae                                now y8tm bt be c8rid out by 3/87.
EabUlii prociw'  for wtry ito   Pxuce&um to be reviewe by MA by
civil servi  respcINg tI frai        9/86 aw "1 for 3" rule  pplied to
for 3" rule.                         Intcn  hee ctcts are abxst to
expire (7/86).
Pzme  staffing pla  and uployeB   To be reviaw  by MA; 7/86 for Eml  Cinm, Fazwtry, ad Plm                 c
casegficatlrwi.                      Deyeloumat; 11/86 for Fine;          am  otir priwzity usd.td.
m1  12/86 for Civil Servie            All d _istrie  tD be oaxd
(Seowd Tra:de).                      by 12/87.
Ebtablgsh '11Peael Ba' axd           Pol-cy c wbzitary d_rtwu  pre-
preparap policy an vlmtary           pared by 12/86 w el   blh
daw=u.                               'VPramm1 HWk' by 3/87 (Sex!
Trm*).
B. RatimaJze               ipoum tompzm  frem an                Establish Adi sztratve   *w           Adtion of ri oTzad1
MzdWni-trati             all  ro   Azatkc pli  (6/86).        gAde by 7/86.                         dharta cmtizau
bwAgmt.                                                                                             coapletion af steffing plm.
Revise State m civil Service.        StMe  to be coWleted by 12/87.        Paduffm  z_ =2t rle of
Civll Serv    M tgry.
C. Inpzwm finaxiAl         Revimse ytm of salay .qlintsa   Buvw uyutu wit I   md MDk by               PayzulL eptm In pLK* by
u=.oit.                 aLlo    e, and Inceaive  axd          12/87.                                12/87.
0 im    PYD1ll 55tiL                                                                                       a
o1



Issua/Pblicy Ob]jectives        kAt       to be Taken by Gov't         mittorable trtis & Timetables       Follceu  and hated ktions
VII Pan2ibic Sector
A. OivestlDure/reutniturlng    Prepare ratolanalzation plar.        Pla ciplnted by 09/30/86, ac           Ixplaitatim  of
aid rehabilitatimn.                                              revised by MA.                        ratkwalizatin innes.
Craplete liquidaUas Identified in   Lidt     ccapleted by 12/31/86.
1985.
Thije  5yar xrorat.iun o             Imniliate ratoriu (6/86).
creatim  of n  PEa     than 502
c-t.
Iqlaxat agractkm pla  for
SICPAD, S3i and Inter/lEAL
Ppae actim plns for other PEa.   Prepare plate for SNE, OCPY and           Iulsanttim  of aia  plm.
EOMA by 10/31/86; for priority PEs
by 06/30/87; ad for otlr by 06/30/88.
B. Elikdnate arrmars ad        Identify and redue all trnfers       102 real reictim  In 1987 b4get.
resore fixnmczI             a- sbmsh s to PEM.
cdentify aren ad  oe debts           Idaettficatis ax] settluint p1at         wmn of r1.
beWin PEs, G      wvenut and bksa.    coplaetel by 12/31/86 (Sean] Train).
Inlie fiuie In 1987 B4lget to        Inclde iu 1987 budpt.                 Regalrize                         W
cver e7editare for aef4aa
provde! by PEa.
C. Inproe PE efficiary.        Tmdiat culing at personnel           No gtwth aom yea/end 1985             Phased inMpietatiw of
gww.; application of "1 frmc for   stffin  level                           staffing plan.
3" rule; pqtparatim of staffing
Pla.
Limdt grwtb of awe         wqeam.    Real edrtinm in ovr   exaaoag
Ia 1987 relative to 1936.
D. Stzun1  GatertiBs '         Er rre all PE i    meet radrti         a   azre caly for appoved projects,
eFMlity to muitor PEa.      coditiom.                            at scowteble fiwi4dal catdidm
md are 102 self-finaced.
Eevil leaflristiw4ul                 Stuly  itiated by 01/1. '36.          Thplatatl  of rita.             a X
frlcm.rk 
Prepare cmsolda    acrts of          Prepae thos of 1985 and 1986          Pzwcu  ats of later
parapLlic sector.                    axd tnttid oa.14-la prepaticm         yen.
proces by 3/87 (Sea  m       .



- 80 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
CAR; -Withouit Adjustmnit Scmuwrlo
Units              1984     1985        Averge  eal rth  Rates
Actual    Eat.         1985-1990    1990-1995
WP                         1984 bllIon CFAF        279       286            1.7          1.9
Agriculture                                        109       113            2.0          2.1
I"try                                               39       40             2.1          1.7
Services                                           115       119            1.5          1.8
Pdivate Cc n           "pt1x                       241       252            2.0          1.9
Puic   tsmptio                                      37        37            1.3          1.7
TnvestmEmt                                          35       37             2.0          2.0
ZportB of GDods an !FS                              58        64            0.9          1.8
npora of Goods and KFS                              91       104            1.8          1.9
1984    1985                  Ratio
units          Acusa   Eiat.            1990         1995
Ivetmlnt/L                         (Z)            12.3      12.8           13.0         13.1
Public lnvestan~t/l  InestRat  (7) 79.4                     80.4           93.8          93.3
CDs/CuP                            (2)            40.4      -1.0           -0.6         -0.6
Gbermeit Savmgs/GP                 (C)             0.9       1.1            0.8          0.8
Eixps (S/MP                        (2)            20.7      23.1           22.5         22.5
Imports GMS/GDP(/a                   )            32.8      36.4           36.3         36.3
Cucrrelt Accatmt                   M       fJ(()  -15.2    -14.8          -13.6        -12.9
Curret AccDount/GP                 (2)            -4.9      -6.8           -6.6         -7.9
Grantsttotal Grows                 (2)            63.2      47.4           42.9          30.3
Debt Sexvim/tporvt QDS-1    /c  M                 12.0      19.1           20.9          27.0
Debt Serin Receipts -   (Z)                       22.8      30.4           26.2          34.7
NUDD/OJP                           (2)            41.4      45.2           52.9          75.0
/a  blndig gWants to the pubic sector.
7   Grants In tis raio  ly iw:zde tecmical asistance and capital grante.
/c  TInhc    lF debt service.
7a ncbi&s IF debt.



- 81 -
ANNEX VIII
Page I of I
USE UF IMF ORDINARY RESOURCES
(thousands of SOR's?
Purchases                                                           Lharqes and Repurchases
Credit Iranche,
Oil           EFF and    Stand-by and           BRAND                                                               BRAND
facilitles   Buffer Stock   Enlarged Access          TOIAL                           Charges        Repurchases         TOTAL
---   I!    9900              8000           17u00                               981             3105            408h
:-  e           0             2400            2400                              1350              599            1949
Us              0             4500            4500                              1723              321            2044
u                            51U0QI          50UQ                              1910            6300             8210
*.              0               0            11OO           11000                              1963             9500           11463
;               0                0i              0                0                             1842             5331             7173
*               0                0                9q                            1596            2350             394&
*:             e                0                0               0                              1282            6125             7407
0               O                i                0                              626            8375             7001
*s              1)               0                0                              104             3438            3542
-                                0               u                0 18 L                          18              125              143
U               0                                 '**                              a 0   l  o     125              131
;lote: Proiectwns based on total Dutstandirnq purchases as of 12131IB5.



NIGER             :*.c                                                                  -.-
o x _ _ z ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ X> ~~~~;> \ ~~~A  1- R I C  A
q;  C H A D    <          ~~~~5 U D A N.                                .
N I G E R I A    : t                                                                      r
za_}    3+         ~CENTRAL                                                                          >..-
CAMRO       N         AFRICAN  REPUBLIC                                              ..   .
) CA 'l    E              R                                           _                      _   ;
fo  1             / ~~~~P R          ZAIREJ                            .       
GIEOlwAj                 s THF                                    UGANDA         \>BAMIIVGill  B;J
CONGO,J                                                                    -.t
.,.            \ t         ~~~~~~Ndohe
\ ~~~C    H           A     D .,yv  4
i;-AMEROON   ?                       ,                                - >    <    
0  Kf ' OPoouo _oBatonga{ uo.                      :
-'    g          di=.'f-' 0                   OUHAh,-'                         Kag BtD nl:or 
t~~~4; '    A  r*t!^ tsS f                                                   Hs 
t'.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ,0!! fl   .'J    ;  1/                       t      K
l oBob~X=> \\ r GRSIJNoSou                                             :A
i   @,      ,  >  ;J  -< g  {rBor d3a|0
fSig    \ \   j            4   -            %')    $  |~~~~~~~
(O."        -' z  /g                                         Bolg        .> 
{ S * 5 A ~~~OIL~o,;   
0     /                                                              Gr  5     BOomb
CAM~~~~~~~~~ hE EOO                          -11 A   .
*S A     /V    PEOLE'  RE.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     A
low i'               /                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20-



IORD1907
.  ._<                          24'                    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
I-                           K                                   FOOD CROP PRODUCTION
S                ,.a              \                                     CULTURES VIVRIERES
:;N>r  W /   \   \                                    I       | AREA WITH lOW lAND OCCUPANCY RAIL
5'          -.                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(DENNETY LES 111AN I INHAIIIIANI PILR 5O IIM)
REG-I*      A tlASlV IAlAi  D'OCCtPA W DtU SLA
,   v      v                                             , "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rstr  w, ,m., III , IHNf - r  Ai.
FORLSI-5AVAJNN^A CONNICIION
VAkA GA\                                                                     CON FACT hit WIrSVN
CASSAVA ARI A iONt PU MANRlX
PRINCIPAI CROPS ASSOC1ATI 0  1W1 ILt ASSAVA
8  :(- . - S                           q                                              {PRODU l' Lil[D IN ORDEP Of IMPORIANCE)
\   :,,,  JPRINCIHAIES CLFFYrST ASSOC Io S AU MANIC"
(PIRODuiFS ClfS PAR CJoRI vMDLCIIIANCEI
-1 GROUNDNUTS. SESAME. GOURID GRAINS
1%'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~jARACNIDES 5E5AALE GI1AINI7S Of (-LVPGE
fy                                       i |    tl  ! g  ,-:--:    MAIZEI GROUNONUTS, GOURD URAINS
S     u  _L~ __ A5AS. ARACHIDFS. C:RAINES DE COuaGO
*' MoUlwtEr. BEANS. GROUNDINUS GOURD GRAINS
1                             '2 \   %zs                                      /AVIS& HAfiCOTS 411ACMDr C.JfAINES Of CoUfIt
NCGORAN                                                                                                  SECONDARY CROPS ASSOCIAIED WIH CASSAVA
2t_ l_/ E -      9                C0I1URfS SECONDA1iE5 ASSOCIECS Ad MANIOC
I ;J 'I_  #'    t     t       jOKRA. C.OMN
I  I    1%                     ~~~~~~~~SESAME/ SESAME
*-                                      ft -                                    A i '    i PLANTAIN RANANAS. MACASO IARO
X-Jr,              j0Q                                          %  ,   *_.                    AANANE PLANtAIN MACADO tAbO
,t                  oo~~~~uaddo                8                              \         C8
00~~~~~~~~~~~~'
*  [7./     >r-   MILIEI AREA. ZONE DES PlAIL
1  --   -   '                ;  '                        t      I          #              - -~~'  1
HAUTE            ,                                *9:1SOURCt JEUNE AERIGUE 194
, hEHAUTE *                                                                      ,7
J  .                    '                   's  j *           f ~~~~~HA U 7- 
Iv.~                                      koTro ->',11                                              tu
0YDoInga
Y' A             1;    ;            ___                                         .2 -                 10010
0~~
,,   SYesube          pegosso                   !~~~ __ . _   PRENINCE PRRfFCEUSF RlOUIiDAOIFS
S;Cembe f-
-14.
IAli  the c e   oF the
re.r tA ndit rs zcaCsAvely F, rdie
anlreval VS.! otFt flu WeNd Ban
Mb  idy e  Olfwnal nal
'OLionoo ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e'caun  h  enewl.
150         200         2S0          300                                                                         r- flffw 1 r.flnn gshoim
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o *e"s s man it hit endy. WiDi
RILOMETERS                                                                                                            pal p1 the flAyEd tEPiA and Er
flIemralLoiM IuInfe Go'gomaPOn.
tOo                 150                 200                                                                    an pflnevi on Tie legal stalin
z~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1" *V E 5St vaffDlE dwoa,
fot arh lon    o   Vvs
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~t _.J  gm
AUjGUST 19s5






