_IV    Et)AN NUMBER 1933 KO
Loan Agreement
(Fourth KDB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated    a                            1981


﻿WAN NUMBER 1933 KO
LDAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     q   0.A.+             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE   STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called
the Borrower), a statutory body established and operating under
the laws of the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the
Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment. Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "W" and "Won" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Act" means the Korea Development Bank Act of the
Guarantor dated December 30, 1953, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(h)  "Decree" means the Enforcement Decree of the Korea
Development Bank Act, enacted on January 18, 1954, by Presidential
Decree No. 858, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(i)  "By-laws" means the By-laws of the Korea Development
Bank dated February 16, 1954, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(j) "Operating Manuals" means the Operating Manuals of the
Korea Development Bank, dated April 1, 1954, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
(k) "Share-holding Act" means the Korea Development Bank
Share-holding Act, dated August 4, 1969, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
(1) "Enforcement Decree No. 1" means the Enforcement Decree
of the Korea Development Bank Share-holding Act, enacted on
October 6, 1969, by Presidential Decree No. 4100, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
(m) "Special Act" means the Special Measures Act Governing
Overdue Loans of Banking Institutions, dated August 3, 1966, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(n) "Enforcement Decree No. 2" means the Enforcement Decree
of the Special Measures Act Governing Overdue Loans of Banking
Institutions, enacted on August 12, 1966, by Presidential Decree
No. 2702, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(o) "R.C. Decree" means the Readjustment Corporation Decree
enacted on February 20, 1962, by Cabinet Decree No. 459, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(P) "Guarantee Release Arrangement" means the arrangement
entered into by the Guarantor on March 31, 1975 with respect


﻿-3-
to the potential risks arising as a result of KDB's issuance of
direct or indirect external repayment guarantees on foreign loans
to Government-Invested Enterprises and Designated Enterprises, as
such terms are defined in the said Guarantee Release Arrangement.
(q) "Policy Statement" means the statement of lending and
investments policy approved by the Board of Executive Directors
of the Borrower on April 4, 1975, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(r) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the date
of this Agreement, "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for
therein and "Prior Guarantee Agreement" means any agreement
between the Guarantor and the Bank providing for the guarantee
of any such Prior Loan.
(s) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
(t) "NIF" means the National Investment Fund established
under the National Investment Fund Law No. 2635, dated
December 14, 1973.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan or
investment to finance (i) 100% of the reasonable foreign-currency
cost of directly imported goods and services required for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested, or (ii) 60% (representing the estimated
foreign exchange component) of the reasonable local cost of


﻿-4-
domestically manufactured or procured items; provided, however,
that (A) no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan
or investment unless the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or the sub-loan shall be a free-limit
sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account, and (B) except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no sub-loan or investment shall exceed the
sum of $10,000,000 equivalent.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $5,000,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
of any Prior Loan for such Investment Project.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to
the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment;
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit


﻿sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9 1/4%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 qf this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to
the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.


﻿(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall
not extend beyond 13 years (including a maximum grace period of
3 years, except in the case of a co-funded sub-loan where the
maximum grace period may be extended to 5 years) from the date of
approval by the Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the
case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and
(ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
(d) For the purposes of this Section "co-funded sub-loan"
means a loan made by the Borrower to an Investment Enterprise, for
an Investment Project, out of the proceeds of the Loan jointly
with proceeds from foreign commercial borrowings.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the
Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment
or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower
shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or
investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding f' the
outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan
so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting
amounts to be repaid on account of such investment.


﻿-7-
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Republic of Korea as will contribute to the economic and
social development of the country. The Project consists in the
financing of specific development projects through loans to and
investments in private enterprises in the Republic of Korea,
in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act, the Decree, the By-laws, the
Operating Manuals, and the Policy Statement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement and on such other terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case
of any sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate
in the case of any investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the


﻿-8-
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain throughout Project execution
an NIF Unit to monitor the impact of NIF lending and to administer
the Borrower's lending activities thereunder; and
(b) carry out or cause such Unit to carry out detailed
sector and sub-sector studies designed to assist the Guarantor
in redefining priority areas for said lending program.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the sub-loans and investments and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.


﻿-9-
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause each of its subsid-
iaries to observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower
hereunder co the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon
such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts


﻿- 10 -
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made
to that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of


﻿- 11 -
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
ten times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount
of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Won debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt owed by the Borrower
to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other subsidiary; and (ii) any debts guaranteed by the Borrower
pursuant to the Act, the Decree or the Guarantee Release
Arrangement; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Won) used in its lending and borrowing
operations.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01
of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act, the Decree,
the By-laws, the Operating Manuals, the Share-holding Act, the
Enforcement Decree No. 1, the Special Act, the Enforcement Decree
No. 2 or the R.C. Decree which would materially and adversely
affect the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Policy Statement
without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct


﻿- 13 -
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project;
(f) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any obligation or undertaking on the part of the Borrower or
the Guarantor under the Guarantee Release Arrangement; and
(g) the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to
perform any obligation under any Prior Loan Agreement or any Prior
Guarantee Agreement (other than the obligation to make any payment
required thereunder).
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 hereof shall
occur;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
hereof shall occur and shall conzinue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of
Section 5.01 hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of +            /9e/      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
The Korea Development Bank
140-1, 2 - ga, Namdaemun - ro
Choong - gu
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                       Telex:
KODEVELBANK                         KODBANK K 27463
Seoul
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  d
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
June     15, 1984                                    800,000
December 15, 1984                                  1,000,000
June     15, 1985                                  1,800,000
December 15, 1985                                  2,400,000
June     15, 1986                                  3,200,000
December 15, 1986                                  4,400,000
June     15, 1987                                  5,200,000
December 15, 1987                                  5,600,000
June     15, 1988                                  6,200,000
December 15, 1988                                  7,400,000
June     15, 1989                                  8,000,000
December 15, 1989                                  8,400,000
June     15, 1990                                  8,200,000
December 15, 1990                                  7,600,000
June     15, 1991                                  6,200,000
December 15, 1991                                  5,400,000
June     15, 1992                                  4,200,000
December 15, 1992                                  3,600,000
June     15, 1993                                  3,000,000
December 15, 1993                                  2,800,000
June     15, 1994                                  2,200,000
December 15, 1994                                  1,200,000
June     15, 1995                                    800,000
December 15, 1995                                    400,000
100,000,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  3.70%
More than six year but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                  8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                  9.25%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Maximum size of a sub-loan: ten million dollars equivalent
($10,000,000).
Eligible Investment
Enterprises:               shall be those whose total debt
(including the proposed sub-loan)
shall not be greater than 5 times
its equity and which are committed
to improving their financial
structure.
Interest rate:             spread of 2% to be applied to the
weighted average cost of official
borrowings.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
mIent.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  14      day of       ,198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


