                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                          Report No: ICR00001321



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-H3920)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.8 MILLION
                          (US$ 7.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

                                       FOR A

         ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REFORM GRANT



                                  November 30, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Country Department AFCC1
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 30, 2009)

                              Currency Unit = CFAF
                              US$ 1.00 = 440.1 CFAF

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB         African Development Bank
CAR          Central African Republic
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability
CPIP         Country Procurement Issues Paper
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
DDR          Program for the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration
EMGRG        Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant
EU           European Union
HIPC         Highly Indebted and Poor Countries Initiatives
JISN         Joint Interim Strategy Note
MDRI         Multilateral Debt Relief Initiatives
PEFA         Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFM          Public Finance Management
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RIBSUP       Reengagement and Institution-Building Support Program




          Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekewesili
     Country Director: Mary Barton-Dock
         Sector Manager: Jan Walliser
    Task Team Leader: Gerard Kambou
     ICR Team Leader: Jerome Chevallier
                CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
    ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REFORM GRANT


                                 CONTENTS


     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring




i
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Economic Management
                        Central African
Country:                                         Program Name:             and Governance
                        Republic
                                                                           Reform Grant
Program ID:             P106458                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H3920
ICR Date:               12/17/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           CENTRAL AFRICAN
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 4.8M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 4.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 4.8M
Implementing Agencies:
 CTP-PAS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/31/2008      Effectiveness:             06/17/2008       06/17/2008
Appraisal:            03/28/2008      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/27/2008      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   05/31/2009       05/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     60                  60
Forestry                                                              20                  20
Oil and gas                                                           20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  11                  11
Other public sector governance                                        22                  22
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      23                  23
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                     22                  22
Tax policy and administration                                         22                  22

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Mary A. Barton-Dock                  Mary A. Barton-Dock
Sector Manager:            Jan Walliser                         Jan Walliser
Program Team Leader:       Gerard Kambou                        Luc Razafimandimby
ICR Team Leader:           Gerard Kambou
ICR Primary Author:        Jerome F. Chevallier




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
A one-tranche development policy operation, the Economic Management and
Governance Reform Grant (EMGRG) supports the implementation of the CAR#s Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper. The proposed grant focuses on two main policy areas: (i)
strengthening public finance management; and (ii) improving public sector and economic
governance. This operation directly supports two pillars of the PRSP: (i) promoting good
governance and the rule of law (pillar 2); and (ii) rebuilding and diversifying the
economy (pillar 3). In addition, it will assist the Government in attaining some of the
HIPC Completion Point triggers and will provide much needed external resources to
ensure timely payment of public sector salaries and external debt service.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally     Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised     Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target     Completion or
                                              documents)          Values      Target Years
                   Timely production of quarterly budget reports from commitment to payment
Indicator 1 :
                   based on new procedures
                                          Four reports for
Value                                     2008 - one for
(quantitative or   0                      every quarter from
Qualitative)                              January 2009
                                          onwards
Date achieved      01/31/2007             05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Number of public accounts in commercial banks
Value
(quantitative or   130                     70
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/31/2007              05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Number of firms in breach of national regulations in forestry
Value
(quantitative or   2                       0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/31/2007              05/31/2009


                                                iii
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Tax revenue
Value
                                           8.2 percent of
(quantitative or   7.3 percent of GDP
                                           GDP (est for 2009)
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007              06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Number of firms in compliance with new regulations in the oil sector
Value                                    All firms operating
(quantitative or   0                     in CAR - as of
Qualitative)                             December 2008: 2
Date achieved      12/31/2007            05/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Transparency International Index
Value
                   TI ranking: 162 of 180 Improved ranking
(quantitative or
                   countries              in TII
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007              05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Adoption of a computerized system for tracking expenditures
                                          Expenditure
                                          tracking based on
Value              Tracking of
                                          a computerized
(quantitative or   expenditures done
                                          system from
Qualitative)       manually
                                          commitment to
                                          authorization
Date achieved      12/31/2007             05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iv
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO                  IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                           (USD millions)
  1    02/13/2009       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              7.83


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       v
Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

Context at Appraisal

The Central African Republic (CAR), a fragile post conflict country with a rich natural
resource endowment, had successfully re-engaged with the international community and
embarked on a program of reforms to restore security throughout the country and create
the conditions for the resumption of growth and development. Extended periods of
political instability and conflicts had resulted in weak governance and poor socio-
economic outcomes that continue to afflict the country today. Despite enhanced political
stability, the security situation remained precarious because of spillovers of the conflicts
in Chad and Darfur, sporadic rebel activity in the north of the country, and banditry on
the Douala-Bangui corridor.

At the end of the armed conflict in 2003, about two thirds of the population lived below
the poverty line. Poverty rates were highest in regions affected by violence and lowest in
Bangui, the capital city. According to a Poverty Participatory Analysis carried out in
2007, the three main causes of poverty were poor governance, including abuse of power
by government officials, insecurity, and low incomes (essentially, lack of cash incomes).
The 2007/08 UNDP Human Development Report ranked the CAR 171st out of 177
countries. Social indicators were extremely poor with a life expectancy of 39.4 years, an
HIV/AIDS prevalence rate of 6.2 percent for the 15-49 age group, and one child out of
four who had never attended school.

With improved political stability economic growth resumed in 2006 and remained robust
through 2007, but gains in real GDP per capita were modest. Exports grew significantly
by 21.3 percent in 2006 and 14.6 percent in 2007; timber and diamonds accounted for
about 85 percent of total exports. CAR had made significant progress in re-establishing
macroeconomic stability, with support from the Bank and the IMF through, respectively,
a Reengagement and Institution-Building Support Program (RIBSUP) and a three-year
arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), both approved in
December 2006. RIBSUP contributed to clear CAR's arrears to the Bank. The
reengagement with the donor community helped CAR generate fiscal surpluses in 2006
and 2007, amounting to 9 percent and 1.6 percent of GDP respectively.

The tax revenue-GDP ratio was among the lowest in sub-Saharan Africa, at 7.3 percent in
2007, constraining the government's ability to address the basic needs of the population.
Revenue was highly dependent on grant disbursements by the donor community. Total
revenue averaged 14.1 percent of GDP in 2003-07, with a peak of 22.8 percent of GDP in
2006. The timely payment of public sector salaries has been a perennial issue in CAR;
progress was made in 2006, but delays occurred again in 2007. The Government had not
yet been able to honor its commitment to reduce the six-month overdue salary arrears
accumulated since the regime change in 2003.




1
The Joint Interim Strategy Note (JISN) of the World Bank and the African Development
Bank (AfDB), presented to the Board in March 2007, outlined the support to the CAR
planned by the two institutions for 18 months (FY07-08). Its overarching goal was to
assist CAR recover from a long period of instability and begin laying the foundations for
sustained and shared growth over the medium term. Key features of the JISN included
helping the CAR: (i) resolve its arrears to the two institutions and to multilateral
development partners more generally, in order to restore substantial external support to
the country; (ii) begin benefiting from debt relief through access to the HIPC and
Multilateral Debt Relief (MDRI) Initiatives as early as possible; and (iii) address urgent
needs on the ground, notably by rebuilding minimal effectiveness of the Government to
set and execute policy and deliver services.

In June 2007 the government adopted its first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
covering the period 2008-10, following a broad consultative process. The PRSP has four
strategic pillars: (i) restore security, consolidate peace and prevent conflict; (ii) promote
good governance and the rule of law; (iii) rebuild and diversify the economy; and (iv)
develop human capital. The PRSP represented the first attempt by the authorities to
provide a comprehensive framework for their growth and poverty alleviation objectives.
In September 2007, following completion of its poverty reduction strategy, CAR reached
the decision point under the enhanced Highly Indebted and Poor Countries (HIPC)
Initiative.

Original Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators

The objectives of the Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant (EMGRG)
were to strengthen public finance management and improve public sector and economic
governance. The EMGRG directly supported pillar 2 and pillar 3 of the PRSP. Support
for pillar 3 was pursued by strengthening the legal and regulatory framework of the
forestry and oil sectors so as to ensure that they can provide a strong basis for economic
growth and poverty reduction through increased foreign direct investment, export
earnings, fiscal revenue, and a steady supply of petroleum products to industries and the
population at competitive market prices.

The operation policy matrix included 8 outcome indicators: (i) timely and reliable budget
execution reporting; (ii) adequate budget provision for reducing arrears to public utilities;
(iii) improved efficiency and transparency of the government accounting system; (iv)
improved domestic revenue mobilization capacity; (v) improved formulation,
coordination and monitoring of anticorruption policies; (vi) improved clarity and
efficiency of public procurement processes; (vii) improved compliance with forestry laws
and regulations; and (viii) strengthened regulatory framework in the oil sector.

Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The objectives of the operation were not revised.

Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program


2
Public Financial Management

Public finance management was in complete disarray after years of political instability
and conflicts. RIBSUP helped the Government set the stage for the development of a
modern legal framework for the budget and minimize the recourse to exceptional
procedures. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), completed in
October 2007, the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA), which was
underway, and the audit of the Treasury, financed by a LICUS grant, identified serious
shortcomings in Public Finance Management (PFM) and laid out reform priorities. Main
areas requiring attention included (i) the lack of a forward looking approach of the
budget, including inadequate budget provisions for public utilities; (ii) weak control of
the Treasury over government resources, (iii) lack of transparent and comprehensive
reporting of government operations; and (iv) weak domestic revenue mobilization
capacity.

The accumulation of government arrears was seriously hampering the ability of the
public utilities for electricity (ENERCA), water supply (SODECA) and
telecommunication (SOCATEL) to deliver services to the population and businesses. The
EMGRG supported the inclusion of a budget line for arrears payment in the 2009 budget
and preparation of an action plan to address chronic government arrears and ensure
timely utility bill payment. To improve the efficiency and transparency of the accounting
system, the Government adopted a new accounting classification and closed 51
government accounts held in commercial banks and transferred the balances to a treasury
account. To improve budget execution and reporting, the Government adopted new
budget procedures, reducing the number of steps to process expenditures, and completed
the computerization of the Budget Directorate, which would help produce quarterly
budget execution reports on time. The Government also undertook to prepare and submit
the 2008 budget execution law to Parliament by end-2009. To enhance domestic resource
mobilization, the Government redeployed treasury agents in all line ministries generating
revenues and implemented a computerized system in the port of Douala in Cameroon and
in Bangui to improve the traceability of imports and better monitor the value declared by
importers.

Public Sector and Governance

Building upon progress made under RIBSUP in the fight against corruption and in
increasing transparency in mining contracts, EMGRG sought to assist the government: (i)
make its anti-corruption efforts more effective; (ii) reform the legal framework for public
procurement and strengthen institutions; (iii) improve compliance with forestry laws; and
(iv) strengthen the regulatory framework in the downstream petroleum sector.

Initiatives taken to fight corruption led to a significant increase in the number of cases of
suspected corruption and penalties imposed. To boost the effectiveness of its anti-
corruption efforts, the Government created an Anti-Corruption Committee in the Prime
Minister's office with a broad mandate to formulate, coordinate and monitor anti-


3
corruption policies. A first task of the Committee was to prepare and disseminate an anti-
corruption strategy and annual work plans.

A Country Procurement Issues Paper (CPIP) prepared in 2006 guided the reforms to
improve the public procurement system. It included an action plan for overhauling the
public procurement process. The World Bank and AfDB financed experts to help the
Government finalize and implement a new Procurement Code. The Government
undertook to get the new Code approved by the National Assembly, appoint members of
two newly created agencies, the General Directorate of Procurement and the regulatory
agency, produce and disseminate manuals of procedure and standard bidding documents,
and establish procurement departments in four key ministries (education, health,
agriculture and infrastructure).

A new Forestry Code was under preparation to ensure inter alia that timber harvesting
rights would be allocated on the basis of market mechanisms and that forestry taxes
would be effectively collected. The Code was expected to be approved by the National
Assembly in mid-2008. Before Board approval of EMGRG, the Government took steps
to enforce existing legislation, including cancelling exploitation permits to two new
firms, which failed to pay entry fees, and notifying all forestry operators of the deadline
for payment of overdue fiscal obligations. It also suspended issuance of new permits until
enactment of the new Code.

In the downstream petroleum sector, the Government took measures to address the 2007
crisis triggered by the rapid increase in oil prices. A major oil company was the sole
importer and main supplier of oil products in CAR. A new law was enacted to create a
regulatory agency and restructure the public company in charge of storage and
distribution. The regulatory agency's role was to supervise the sector and ensure that it
became open, transparent and competitive. It signed a contract with an independent and
reputable pre-inspection agency to control the quantity and quality of imported oil
products. A new firm was created for the storage of oil products, with the Government
holding 51 percent of the capital and three private operators the balance.

Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised.

Other significant changes

Not applicable.

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Program performance

EMGRG was a single tranche operation. It was approved on May 27, 2008, became
effective on June 17, 2008 and closed on May 31, 2009. All 10 prior actions, listed
below, were met by the time of Board approval.

4
Preceding the EMGRG, a US$2 million LICUS emergency operation was approved in
March 2008 to help the Government pay the salaries of teachers and health workers
during a period of severe cash constraint in the first quarter of 2008, when donors did not
disburse planned budget support. This emergency grant provided not only timely support
to the budget; it also permitted implementation of the HIPC completion point triggers
related to education and health.

Two LICUS grants supported implementation of the EMGRG through technical
assistance. The LICUS II grant, which closed in December 2008, provided technical
assistance to strengthen the customs and tax departments, build capacity in the Treasury
department, strengthen civil service management and payroll control system, and
improve the public procurement system. Building on LICUS II, the LICUS III grant was
approved in August 2008 to provide technical assistance to deepen reforms in public
finance management and public administration and enhance governance and country
business environment. Under the first component, support was provided to build capacity
in revenue collection, budget preparation, execution, and reporting, and in designing civil
service reforms. Under the second component, support was provided to strengthen the
capacity of institutions involved in oil sector management, revise the oil sector legislation
as well as oil pricing structure and adjustment mechanism, and strengthen capacity in oil
sector administration. In addition the grant supported the revision of the 2004 mining
code, the design of a standard mining form agreement, and capacity building in mining
sector administration. The LICUS grants were instrumental in strengthening the
effectiveness of government effort and determination in defining and implementing well
sequenced reforms.




5
Prior Actions

                                      EMGRG Prior Actions
             Policy Area                                  Original measures EMGRG
                       Improve the Efficiency of Public Finance Management
Budget reporting                       A presidential decree has been issued to enforce new budget
                                       execution procedures, including modalities, procedures and
                                       accountabilities for the implementation of the state budget, and
                                       nomination of key staff in the General Directorates of Budget
                                       and Treasury.
Efficiency and transparency of         The Ministry of Finance has adopted a new accounting
accounting system                      classification, after extensive consultations with civil society
                                       and donors.
Efficiency and transparency of         The Ministry of Finance has requested by an official letter that
accounting system                      51 government accounts held in commercial banks considered
                                       inactive, dormant, or settled be closed immediately and that the
                                       balance on said accounts be transferred to a designated treasury
                                       account.
Domestic revenue mobilization          The Ministry of Finance has redeployed 7 treasury agents to
                                       each of the line ministries generating revenues, including the
                                       ministries of Youth, Defense, Interior and Public Security,
                                       Commerce, Education, Civil Service and Health, to facilitate
                                       the reporting of their respective revenues in the government
                                       accounts.
Domestic revenue mobilization          The Ministry of Finance has adopted a computerized
                                       information system to produce pre clearance documents for
                                       imports entering CAR's territory through the Port of Douala
                                       (Cameroon), so that they are compatible with the ones used at
                                       the central services in Bangui.
                      Strengthening Public Sector and Economic Governance
Anti-corruption framework              The Recipient has established by a presidential decree a
                                       permanent anti-corruption oversight committee within the
                                       Prime Minister's office.
Forestry sector reforms                The Government has strengthened fiscal compliance with
                                       national fiscal regulations in the forestry sector and exercised
                                       of its legal remedies including: (a) cancellation of exploitation
                                       permits of two new firms having failed to pay entry fees when
                                       due; and (b) identifying all active forestry operators with
                                       overdue fiscal obligations, and notifying each operator of the
                                       deadline for payment of the overdue amounts.
Forestry sector reforms                The Ministry of Forestry has by public notice suspended the
                                       issuance of new permits, until the CAR's forestry code has
                                       been enacted, and this has been posted on the government's
                                       website and widely disseminated to the public.
Petroleum sector reforms               The Government has enacted a law creating the new petroleum
                                       regulatory, adopted its governing documents, and nominated
                                       the General Manager, Chairman of the Board of Directors and
                                       other key staff.
Petroleum sector reforms               A contract has been signed between the petroleum regulatory
                                       agency and an independent pre-inspection agency of
                                       international reputation, which will be responsible for


6
                                    controlling the quality of imported oil products.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation

External factors

CAR suffered major trade and supply shocks in 2008 and early 2009 that seriously
affected the economy. Facing falling world demand, exports of timber and diamonds
contracted sharply. Six companies out of nine closed their processing units in the forestry
sector; and eight purchasing offices out of eleven suspended their activities in the
diamond sector. Overall, the value of CAR's exports dropped by an estimated 24 percent
in 2008, adversely affecting the contributions that timber and diamond exports make to
government revenue. Breakdowns at the major hydro power plant caused repeated
outages with serious economic and social impacts. As a result of these unexpected
external and domestic shocks real GDP growth slowed down to 2.2 percent in 2008 from
3.7 percent in 2007. Sharp increases in world food and petroleum prices caused inflation
to surge from 0.9 percent in 2007 to 9.3 percent in 2008. The current account deficit
increased from 6.1 percent of GDP in 2007 to 10 percent of GDP in 2008.

On the security front, the international community re-affirmed its commitment to help
restore peace and security in CAR. In January 2009, the UN Security Council approved
the deployment of 5,500 peace keepers to replace European troops in strife-torn areas in
Chad and CAR. The deployment of UN Mission in the Central African Republic and
Chad peacekeeping force, MINURCAT 2, along with the regional peace-building force,
Micopax, was critical in helping to improve the security situation in the troubled north-
east region. Nonetheless, the government continued to lack control over the entire
country, which limited formal business activity, particularly in the diamond sector in the
Northern provinces.

Factors under government control

The government took important steps to resolve the country's political crisis. In June
2008 the Government signed a cease-fire with the main rebel group operating near the
border with Chad. It also extended an amnesty to all opponents and rebels to facilitate a
broad-based dialogue. In December 2008, the Government organized a meeting of all
political actors, including opposition and rebel groups, called the Inclusive Political
Dialogue (IPD). Resulting from the IPD a new government, including representatives of
the opposition and rebel groups, was formed in January 2009, which helped to reinforce
political stability; and a program for the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration
(DDR) of former combatants was launched. However, implementation of the DDR
program, which is expected to consolidate the peace process, remained slow owing
mainly to insufficient funding.

Adequacy of government's commitment

The Government demonstrated strong commitment to the reform program supported by
EMGRG. In spite of severe external shocks in 2008 and early 2009 and ongoing security
concerns, it stayed the course of reforms. It also maintained macroeconomic stability and
7
implemented a broad agenda of reforms for the HIPC completion point. These reforms
included (i) actions to enhance transparency through declaration of assets by cabinet
ministers and senior government officials; (ii) further progress in public finance and
public debt management; (iii) initiation of civil service reform following measures
already taken to establish a unified payroll and personnel records database and eliminate
ghost workers from the payroll; (iv) improvements in the regulatory frameworks for the
forestry and mining sectors; and (v) measures to improve outcomes in the social sectors,
including health and education, and to combat HIV/AIDS. As a result of these efforts, in
June 2009, CAR reached the completion point under the enhanced HIPC initiative.
Soundness of background analysis

The background analysis for the EMGRG was adequate. It was supported by a broad
range of analytical work covering most aspects of the operation. Key analytical work
included the CFAA, PEFA (both in FY08) and CPIP (FY06) in the area of public
financial management. These studies, carried out in close cooperation with other donors,
identified critical steps in the short and medium-term for the reform process. The 2004
forestry sector assessment was updated in 2007 and provided the underpinnings for
reforms in the sector. The 2007 update showed that there was room for improvements to
increase transparency and competition in timber harvesting rights and enhance tax
collection and management systems. A Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS)
carried out in FY07 analyzed the constraints to regional integration and trade. It identified
the lack of resources for infrastructure maintenance as a major issue and outlined
measures to improve the government capacity to mobilize revenues. The
recommendations of anti-corruption surveys and reports prepared by the UNDP in
collaboration with Transparency International provided a basis for the formulation of
measures supported by EMGRG in that area.

The social and environmental aspects of EMGRG were adequately analyzed. Corruption
and poor governance were identified as a major cause of poverty in the Participatory
Poverty Analysis of 2007. By emphasizing improved transparency and accountability,
and strengthened links between public spending and PRSP priorities, EMGRG would
help ensure that increased revenues would be used for programs aimed at improving
CAR's dismal social indicators. The reforms in the forestry and petroleum sectors were
expected to have favorable environmental impacts. In the forestry sector, the reforms
would contribute to a better monitoring of forestry management, increased involvement
of local communities in the decision making process and the sharing of revenues, and
enhanced protection of the resource. In the petroleum sector, the reforms and support
from a LICUS grant would ensure stricter compliance with quality and security
standards.

Assessment of the operation's design

Building upon the satisfactory implementation of RIBSUP, which set the stage for a
meaningful reengagement of the donor community in CAR and supported the restoration
of the State's basic functions, EMGRG's reform agenda aimed at further improving
public financial management and governance. A total of 13 possible triggers for a second


8
follow-up operation were listed in the Program Document for RIBSUP. These actions
became by and large part of the EMGRG and HIPC completion point agenda. The prior
actions in the EMGRG concerning public finance management and procurement were
formulated in a more precise way than before. Actions concerning the mining code
became part of the HIPC completion point agenda; while prior actions relating to the
forestry and downstream petroleum sectors were added to the EMGRG reform agenda.
The operation was designed taking into account limited government capacity; it helped
CAR make progress on the road to recovery and reach the HIPC completion point.

Relevance of risk analysis

Given CAR's fragile post-conflict situation, the EMGRG faced substantial risks. The
security situation was tenuous and could easily deteriorate, particularly in view of
persisting conflicts in neighboring countries. Political instability, as had been experienced
in past decades, could result in the reversal of hard won gains supported through the
recent reengagement of the donor community. Macroeconomic instability could result
from a deterioration of the external environment or fiscal slippages. Vested interest could
resist reforms aimed at greater transparency and accountability, and improving natural
resource management. Weak institutional capacity was a major constraint, as well as a
risk to the satisfactory implementation of the reform program. Finally, fiduciary risks due
to lax financial controls were high.

Mitigation of the security risks fell largely outside the scope of the operation. The
decision made by the UN in concert with the European Union (EU) in September 2007 to
establish a security presence in Chad and CAR helped reduce this risk. The Government
was eager to reach the HIPC completion point as rapidly as possible, and this objective
was an important mitigating factor for avoiding slippages in the reform program and
maintaining macroeconomic stability. The weak capacity risk was mitigated through
technical assistance provided by the donor community. The CFAA provided a thorough
assessment of the fiduciary risks associated with budget support. Improved budget
implementation and cash management were a key objective of the EMGRG. Progress had
been made under RIBSUP in these areas and it was expected that the EMGRG would
contribute to further improve the management of public funds. The Bank and the donor
community would continue to be engaged in a close dialogue with the Government to
agree on remedial actions required to ensure the integrity of public funds; and steady
improvements in public financial management supported by the program would mitigate
the fiduciary risk. More broadly, after a successful management of the considerable risks
related to the reengagement process, it was felt that risks would diminish over time with
increased government ownership of the program. Overall, the risk analysis was adequate.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Government designed an M&E framework, covering the budget cycle, to monitor
and evaluate the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. A program oversight
committee was established to monitor implementation of the EMGRG program. It
included representatives of all line ministries, directorates and agencies involved. Budget


9
support was provided by the Bank, AfDB and the European Union, using the same policy
matrix. This was an important step for ensuring coordinated monitoring of progress made
under the program.

During the first supervision mission in October 2008, a chronogram of activities was
prepared and agreed upon. It listed activities that would lead to approval of a second
EMGRG and the HIPC completion point. During that mission, a subset of five indicators
was selected from the policy matrix to assess progress. These included the timely
production of quarterly budget reports, the number of public accounts in commercial
banks, the number of firms in breach of national regulations in forestry, the ratio of tax
revenue to GDP and the number of firms in compliance with new regulations in the oil
sector. In December 2008, the second supervision mission concluded that they were met
or on track. Subsequently, three missions visited CAR in March, July and September
2009; and each mission updated the policy matrix, including performance indicators.

Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

To help the Government meet urgent financing needs arising from the sharp decline in
forestry and mining export revenues caused by the global economic crisis, the Bank
extended a second EMGRG, which was processed under the IDA Financial Crisis
Response Fast Track Facility and approved in April 2009. The objective of EMGRG II is
to sustain and deepen reforms supported under EMGRG I. It focuses on two policy areas,
strengthening public finance management and improving public sector and economic
governance. The Bank also provided two grants, the first one in February 2009 to help
address the power crisis, and the second one in March 2009 to provide support vulnerable
populations in rural areas.

Assessment of Outcomes

Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of EMGRG are as highly relevant today as they were when the operation
was approved. Similar objectives are being pursued under EMGRR II, approved in April
2009. It was essential for CAR to continue on the path of economic rehabilitation
initiated by RIBSUP. Building on progress already achieved, the reforms supported by
the EMGRG were intended to further strengthen public financial management practices
and address key governance issues. The objectives of EMGRG were fully aligned with
the PRSP and the Joint Interim Strategy Note as well as with the Country Partnership
Strategy jointly prepared by the World Bank Group and the African Development Bank
and approved by their Boards in July 2009.

Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The EMGRG largely achieved its development objectives as evidenced by government
performance in relation to the targeted outcome indicators. Despite a difficult economic
environment, the reform program remained broadly on track. Improvements in the tax


10
revenue ratio, coupled with a tight control over expenditures, helped the government
reach its domestic primary surplus target. In June 2009, the IMF Board completed the
fourth review of the arrangement under the PRGF; and the fifth review is on track to be
completed in December 2009. Table 1, below, provides selected economic indicators for
2005-2008. Outcomes under the program supported by the EMGRG are discussed next
and detailed in Annex 2.

Objective 1: Improve the efficiency of Public Finance Management

Good progress was made in improving efficiency and transparency in the government
accounting system. Reconciliations between the Treasury and Central Bank accounts are
now undertaken daily. Until 2009 this procedure did not apply to government accounts
opened in commercial banks; most of these accounts were closed in 2009, thus increasing
the comprehensiveness and relevance of the reconciliation between banking and fiscal
records. New accounting nomenclatures were adopted in March 2008 and a new Chart of
Account, which facilitates budget reporting according to the budget presentation, is being
finalized. Government accounts are being produced for the first time. The reform
program envisaged that the 2008 government accounts would be reviewed by the Court
of Accounts and the corresponding Budget Execution Law would be presented to the
National Assembly in 2009. The authorities have encountered unexpected technical
difficulties, however, which are delaying the compilation of the 2008 accounts. The
compilation of these accounts will be completed by end-December 2009; their audit by
the Court of Accounts and the presentation of the budget execution law to Parliament will
take place in 2010.




11
Table 1: Selected economic indicators (2005-08)
% of GDP, unless mentioned
                                  2005       2006        2007        2008        2009
                                  Actual     Actual      Estimates   Estimates   Projection
GDP (CFAF bn)                     712.1      770.4       813.5       890.3       941
Real GDP growth                   2.4        3.8         3.7         2.2         2.0
Inflation (annual average)        2.9        6.7         0.7         9.3         3.7
Public Finance
Total revenue                     12.4       22.9        14.4        15.1        15.2
   Tax revenue                    7.1        7.8         7.3         7.9         8.6
   Grants                         4.1        13.4        4.1         4.7         4.7
Expenditures                      16.9       13.9        13.1        15.5        15.1
         o/w salary               5.5        4.8         4.5         4.1         4.3
         Interest due             0.9        0.9         1.4         1.9         0.8
Primary balance (excl grants)     -3.6       0.4         1.1         0.1         -0.4
Fiscal balance (excl grants)      -8.7       -4.4        -2.8        -5.1        -4.6
External sector
Current account balance           -6.5       -3.0        -6.2        -9.9        -9.8
Exports (fob)                     9.5        10.7        10.5        7.4         5.5
Imports (fob)                     13.0       13.7        14.8        15.2        12.7

Source: IMF Reports

Reporting on budget execution has considerably improved. Thanks to progress made in
government accounting and the introduction of a new computerized expenditure system
at the Ministry of Finance, quarterly reports on budget execution are produced regularly
since the first quarter of 2008. The new information system has substantially improved
the timeliness and quality of fiscal reporting. The 2008 annual budget report was
produced within 2 months of the end of the year; and the quarterly budget execution
reports are currently available within eight weeks after the end of the period. It is
expected that the quarterly budget execution reports would be available within six week
as the computerized expenditure system is fully deployed.

Provisions for reducing arrears to public utilities have been introduced. The 2009 budget
law made adequate provisions for utility consumption - water, electricity and
telecommunications -and for a 10 percent reduction of the 2007 arrears, as had been
agreed upon. Drawing on resources from the additional SDR allocation it received from
the IMF the government made a payment of CFAF 800 million against the 2007
outstanding arrears to the public utilities, estimated at CFAF 2.0 billion by a debt
commission, reducing the stock of these arrears by 40 percent.

Domestic revenue mobilization capacity has been improved. Despite a difficult
environment, the tax revenue ratio increased to reach 7.9 percent of GDP in 2008. On the
basis of national surveys carried out with UNDP support, 6350 new taxpayers have been
identified. The networked system between the tax and customs directorates and the pre-
inspection company is not yet fully operational, but the transfer of data is effective. The
broadening of the tax base and improvement in tax administration contributed to a steady
increase in revenue from taxes on goods and services. Revenue from taxes on
international trade increased moderately from 1.8 percent in 2007 to 1.9 percent in 2009

12
despise the adverse impact of the global economic crisis. As regards non-tax revenue, the
deployment of Treasury agents in ministries generating revenues boosted the collection
as well as the transfer of these resources to the Treasury.



Objective 2: Strengthen public sector and economic governance

Progress has been made in the formulation, coordination and monitoring of the
government's anti-corruption policies. The anti-corruption committee established in the
Prime Minister's office was expected to prepare an anti-corruption strategy, a work
program for 2009 and a report on its activities in 2008, which would be submitted to
Parliament. An anti-corruption strategy is being prepared through a broad consultative
process. An initial draft of the strategy, together with the anti-corruption committee's
work program for 2009, was made available to external partners in June 2009. Regional
consultations on the draft anti-corruption strategy planned for mid-November will be
followed by consultations with development partners in early December 2009. The Anti-
Corruption Committee is also preparing a report on its activities in 2008, and has begun
sharing drafts of the report with stakeholders. However, due to insufficient resources, the
coordination and compilation of activities of anti-corruption agencies is taking longer
than expected; consequently, it is unlikely that the 2008 report will be ready on time for
presentation to Parliament in 2009 as planned.

All cabinet members have submitted an asset declaration using a format developed with
UNDP assistance. A Presidential decree extended the obligation of asset declaration and
disclosure to senior public enterprise officials and some key senior civil servants, and
they have all complied. The government website has been upgraded and includes the new
mining, forestry and procurement codes, mining and forestry contracts, and Treasury
reports.

The clarity and efficiency of public procurement processes have been enhanced. A
procurement code was enacted in October 2008. Implementing decrees and standard
bidding documents have been published. The Procurement Directorate and the
Procurement Regulatory Agency have been established and staffed. Procurement officers
in key line ministries have been appointed. The target for end 2009 was that at least 5
contracts be signed using the procedures set forth in the new code. More than 10
contracts have been signed in July 2009.

Compliance with forestry laws and regulations has improved. In March 2008, the
Government cancelled two permits awarded in 2007 because of non-compliance with the
new regulations. It suspended awarding new permits until the new forestry code and the
implementing decrees were adopted. Forest operators cleared all arrears to the
government in March 2008 and have since honored all tax payments due in 2008 and
2009, despite the sharp decline in timber and processed wood exports. On its part, the
Government has paid all arrears on VAT reimbursement due to the operators in 2007, but
still has to reimburse part of the VAT for 2008.


13
The regulatory framework in the downstream oil sector has been improved and formal
marketing companies are in compliance. The regulatory authority appointed an external
agency to control the quantity and quality of all petroleum imports entering CAR. The
performance of the agency has been satisfactory and thanks to the control system put in
place, the quantities of petroleum products actually imported are now full recorded, and
the quality and safety meet established norms.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Satisfactory

Key indicators were met. Quarterly budget execution reports are regularly produced and
delivered within 8 weeks of close of quarters. The outstanding 2007 arrears to public
utilities have been significantly reduced and adequate budget allocations to pay for the
services provided by the utilities should prevent accumulation of new arrears. A larger
than planned number of government accounts in commercial banks has been closed.
Revenue mobilization has improved thanks to the identification of new taxpayers and
improved tax and customs administration. The 2008 government accounts are being
produced and will be available at end-December 2009, but the presentation of the 2008
budget execution law to Parliament is now planned for 2010. As regards public sector
and economic governance, the Anti-Corruption Committee has produced a draft anti-
corruption strategy, and it adopted a work program in 2009. Its annual report on 2008
activities will be submitted to Parliament in 2010. Senior government officials have
declared their assets and key government reports have been posted on the government's
websites. The new Procurement Code adopted in June 2008 is effective and all contracts
recently awarded (more than 10) were in full conformity with the new legal and
regulatory framework. At the sectoral level, all forestry operators are in compliance with
their fiscal obligations, and in the downstream petroleum sub-sector the regulatory
authority monitors effectively the quantity and quality of petroleum products entering
CAR.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty impacts, gender aspects and social development

The EMGRG contributed to efforts to alleviate poverty and improve social outcomes.
The increase in domestic revenue achieved through the operation, though relatively
modest, has allowed the government to sustain budget allocations to priority sectors.
They represented 38 percent of total expenditures in the 2008 budget, up from 34 percent
in 2007. Improvements in the PFM system are helping to ensure that the allocation of
budgetary resources to sectors and programs are in line with government priorities as set
out in the PRSP. Compared to previous years, more resources are now allocated to health
and education. The share of government expenditures (excluding interest payments)
allocated to health has averaged over 9 percent in 2008 and 2009; in particular, the
Ministry of Health receives a significant share of the total budget on goods and services.


14
As a share of GDP, government expenditures on health have averaged 1.3 percent of
GDP in 2008 and 2009 and are expected to increase to 1.4 percent of GDP in the 2010
budget. The share of government expenditures (excluding interest payments) allocated to
education has averaged over 10 percent over the same period. In terms of GDP,
government expenditures on education averaged about 1.5 percent of GDP in 2008 and
2009, and are expected to increase to 1.6 percent of GDP in the 2010 budget. As part of
the HIPC reform program, the 2008 and 2009 budgets supported an increase of
government expenditures on vaccines, recruitment of primary school teachers, purchase
of impregnated mosquito nets to combat malaria, and the distribution of condoms to help
stem the spread of HIV/AIDS, which has affected women disproportionately. The
quarterly budget execution reports focus on the execution of priority sector expenditures,
which is also a performance criterion in the IMF program. Performance on this criterion
has been satisfactory, with expenditures executed according to plans. The reports are
discussed with development partners and their findings are beginning to feed back into
the subsequent allocation of budgetary outlays.

Institutional change/strengthening

The institutional development impact of the reform measures implemented under the
EMGRG was significant. The program was effective in building capacity in budget
classification, accounting, reporting, public procurement, and tax and customs
administration. Increased transparency, through the disclosure of the assets of ministers
and senior public officials, the publication of key government reports on its websites, the
establishment of the Anti-Corruption Committee and the preparation of an anti-corruption
strategy are contributing to strengthening the institutional framework for the fight against
corruption. In the forestry sector, the new Code provides a legal and regulatory
framework that should promote a sustainable development of the forestry sector; and in
the petroleum sector, the ongoing review of the institutional framework is expected to
result in the adoption of a new legislation for the downstream petroleum sub-sector that is
consistent with international best practice.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Not applicable.

Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes

Significant.

Several factors could jeopardize the sustainability of development outcomes. First, as a
small economy dependent on the export of a few commodities, CAR is highly vulnerable
to exogenous shocks. The sudden fall in world demand has hit CAR's main exports very
hard, adversely affecting the contribution that export revenues make to the budget.
Although there are signs that the economy is bottoming out, the recovery is fragile and a
further weakening of the global demand may test the government's ability to stay the
course of reforms. Another risk is that, having reached the HIPC completion point, the


15
government may be less inclined to undertake difficult reforms. Also, the forthcoming
2010 elections may result in a new government that may not sustain the commitment
needed to improve governance and strengthen CAR's PFM system. Furthermore, the
capacity of the government administration to enforce existing regulations, particularly in
the area of natural resource management, remains weak despite recent progress, and
vested interest may take advantage of that. Finally, the security risk remains important
and the government may not be able to mobilize the resources needed to accelerate
implementation of the DDR program and consolidate the peace process ahead of the
general elections in 2010.

On the other hand, several considerations suggest that the development outcomes are
likely to be maintained. First, the Government's track record as a reformer, even in the
face of external and domestic shocks, represents a credible indication that efforts to
promote economic growth and alleviate poverty will continue. As a reflection of stronger
policy implementation, anchored on a prudent fiscal stance, C.A.R. has maintained
satisfactory performance under the current PRGF-supported program and is on the verge
of completing for the time all six IMF reviews. Despite a succession of shocks in 2008
and 2009 CAR has avoided major macroeconomic imbalances. Next, the institutional
strengthening and capacity building in budget execution and reporting realized under the
EMGRG is expected to help improve the overall control and sustainability of public
finances. Similarly, the satisfactory asset disclosure of senior government officials
represents an important milestone in the fight against corruption on which to built future
efforts. Third, the government is coordinating with donors operating in CAR to
harmonize the structural reform program. The General Framework for Budget Support to
the PRSP (CGAB-DSRP) agreed in October 2009 will improve the predictability of aid
and mobilize donors around a streamlined and better focused reform agenda. Finally,
implementation of the follow-on operation (EMGRG II) and the CGAB-DSRP
framework will help sustain the progress made under the EMGRG.

Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance

Quality at entry
Satisfactory

Building upon the achievements of RIBSUP, the Bank team helped the Government
prepare the next phase of policy reforms, focusing on public finance management and
economic governance. RIBSUP set the stage for a meaningful reengagement of the donor
community and assisted the CAR take steps for (i) improving domestic revenue
mobilization; (ii) strengthening the Treasury's control over expenditures; (iii) ensuring
timely payment of public wages; and (iv) enhancing the business climate in mining,
forestry and telecommunications. The follow-up operation (the EMGRG) was designed
to consolidate the results achieved in public finance management and regulatory reforms
to enhance further governance and transparency.



16
The design of the operation was simple. Reforms were well focused, underpinned by
sound analytical work, and took into account the government's limited capacity. The risk
analysis was sound. Lessons learned from experience were clearly taken into account.
These included, for instance, the need in post-conflict situations to sharpen the focus of
the reform agenda, sequence its implementation, and ensure that sufficient financing is
available to support the process; and the need for concrete actions with demonstrable
results to improve governance. As poor governance is often at the root of internal
conflicts, it is critical for the Government to show that it is making a clear break with past
practices.

Quality of supervision

Satisfactory

The task team leader, who was responsible for the supervision of RIBSUP, was in charge
of the preparation, appraisal and supervision of EMGRG. He visited the CAR in October
and December 2008 an in March and July 2009. Together with the economist in the
resident mission, he helped the authorities deliver the reform program and meet the
triggers for the HIPC completion point. The monthly video-conferences on HIPC
completion point triggers also helped to supervise the implementation of EMGRG and
follow-up program as of mid-2008. Aide-memoires were prepared in close consultation
with the authorities. The policy matrix was updated each time. Through close
coordination with other donors, the task team made sure that the Government had the
technical and financial resources for implementing the work program. Additional
resources were provided through the LICUS fund. Bank management was highly
supportive of the team.

Borrower Performance

Satisfactory

The Borrower was strongly committed to the operation. It implemented the reform
program without delay and reached the HIPC completion point in June 2009, less than
two years following the decision point. The Minister of Finance was personally involved
in monitoring program implementation. Supervision missions were well prepared on the
government side and the dialogue was productive. The Prime Minister was kept informed
of progress and insisted on chairing a wrap up meeting with Bank missions. The
Government's evaluation of the operation, including comments on the ICR report, is
presented in Annex 3.




17
Lessons learned

In post conflict situations, the reform agenda should be sharply focused and well
sequenced and technical assistance should be available to support the implementation of
reforms. A Development Policy Operation is an effective instrument for addressing key
issues critical for restoring a functional government. It contributes to setting the stage for
medium-term reforms, and facilitates donor coordination. Technical assistance should be
available to help the Government implement the reform program and build up capacity in
key areas for improving government effectiveness. Funding for technical assistance
should be readily available. A close dialogue should be maintained at all times, through
frequent supervision missions, field presence and use of videoconferences.

Donors should work closely together and, if at all possible, use the same instruments. The
policy matrix developed for EMGRG was used by the AfDB and the Bank. Other donors
provided timely technical assistance to ensure implementation of the program. The
General Framework for Budget Support to the PRSP (CGAB-DSRP) agreed recently
between the Government and donors operating in CAR will help improve the
predictability of aid and facilitate the administration of donor support.

After a long period of economic mismanagement and internal conflicts, the priority is to
restore the basic functions of government. With the return to peace, the population has
high expectations that long repressed basic needs will be met. Managing expectations is
essential, as resources are extremely limited.

Reaching the HIPC completion point was a strong incentive for moving the reform
agenda. The risk now is that the Government may slow down the reform process.
Experience shows that the risk of falling back into conflict remains high if the
Government does not sustain its recovery efforts. Much remains to be done in CAR to
generate strong economic growth and improve social outcomes. Continued budget
support from the international community is needed to help the Government continue and
deepen its reform program.




18
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Supervision
Eric Bell                 Lead Economist                  AFTP3
Kossi R. Eguida           Economist                       AFTP3
Anna Victoria Gyllerup    Senior Operations Officer       AFTRL
Maude Jean-Baptiste       Language Program Assistant      AFTP3
Maria Carolina Monsalve   Transport. Economist            ECSS5
Clotilde Ngomba           Senior Agriculture Economist    AFTEN
David Tchuinou            Senior Economist                AFTP3


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                                    USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY08                           41                         208.12
FY09                                                      0.00
Total:                         41                         208.12
Supervision/ICR
FY09                           9                          0.00
Total:                         9                          0.00




19
20
       Annex II: Matrix - CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC - POLICY MATRIX
       GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM: OUTCOMES, INDICATORS AND STATUS
                               Monitoring
  EMGRG Expected                                                             EMGRG Target                   Status
                               Indicators           Baseline /Latest
    Outcomes                                                                    2009

             COMPONENT 1: IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
Timely and reliable      Timely and reliable    No budget execution      Production of            Mostly met. Quarterly
budget execution         production of budget   reports produced         quarterly budget         budget execution
reporting                execution reports                               execution reports        reports are produced
                                                                         within 6 weeks of        regularly since the first
                                                                         close of quarter and     quarter of 2008, and are
                                                                         annual budget report     currently available
                                                                         within 2 months of       within 8 weeks of close
                                                                         end of year              of quarter. The 2008
                                                                                                  annual report was
                                                                                                  issued within 2 months
                                                                                                  of end of the year.

Adequate budget          Outstanding domestic   2007: CAF 2.0 billion    10% reduction of         Met. The 2009 budget
provisions for arrears   arrears stock to       as determined by a       arrears in relation to   provides for CFAF 800
to public utility        public utilities       government debt          2007 outstanding         million, representing 40
                                                commission including     stock of arrears owed    percent of the 2007
                                                all parties concerned.   to public utilities      stock of arrears to
                                                                                                  public utilities, for
                                                                                                  payment against these
                                                                                                  arrears. Budget
                                                                                                  allocation fully covers
                                                                                                  government utility
                                                                                                  consumption for 2009.
Improved efficiency      Number of accounts     BEAC: 25 accounts        Target: at least 50%     Met. The target of at
and transparency of      held in commercial     (2007)/Commercial        of accounts closed in    least 50 percent of
the Government           banks and in BEAC      banks: 130 accounts      relation with 2007       accounts closed was
accounting system                               (2007)                                            fully met. Out of 130
                                                                                                  public accounts in
                                                                                                  commercial banks,
                                                                                                  three remained open, in
                                                                                                  addition to 29 related to
                                                                                                  projects financed by
                                                                                                  donors.
                         Presentation of        No reliable reports on   Production of            Mostly met. The
                         Government             treasury operations      Government               compilation of the 2008
                         operations report                               Accounts for the first   Government accounts is
                                                                         time - using the new     advanced and will be
                                                                         chart of accounts        completed by end-
                                                                                                  December 2009. The
                                                                                                  budget execution law
                                                                                                  will be presented to
                                                                                                  Parliament in 2010.
Improved domestic        Number of tax payers   2007: 10,000             16,350                   Met. Six thousand
revenue mobilization     registered in                                                            (6,350) new taxpayers
capacity                 SYSTEMIF                                                                 have been identified by
                                                                                                  the survey. The data
                                                                                                  base of taxpayers at the


21
                                Monitoring
  EMGRG Expected                                                                  EMGRG Target                       Status
                                Indicators             Baseline /Latest
    Outcomes                                                                         2009
                                                                                                           level o f tax Directorate
                                                                                                           have been updated

                          Increase in taxes on     1.8% of GDP in 2007        1.9 % of GDP in              Met. The ratio of
                          international trade as   (baseline revised          2008                         revenue from taxes on
                          % of GDP                 upward from 1.1                                         international trade in
                                                   percent of GDP)                                         2007 was revised
                                                                                                           upward to 1.8%. It
                                                                                                           increased to 1.9% of
                                                                                                           GDP in 2008, despite
                                                                                                           the effects of weak
                                                                                                           world demand.

                          Revenue submitted        CFAF 6.8 billion in        10% increase in
                                                                Met. Staffs from the
                          by line ministries       2007 (baseline revised     relation to 2007
                                                                Treasury Department
                                                   down from CFAF 10
                                                                have been posted in all
                                                   billion)     ministries that generate
                                                                revenues. These
                                                                revenues are now
                                                                regularly transferred to
                                                                the Treasury. The
                                                                baseline was revised to
                                                                reflect more recent
                                                                data. In 2007, CFAF
                                                                6.8 billion out of a total
                                                                collection of CFAF
                                                                13.1 billion was
                                                                transferred to the
                                                                Treasury. In 2008,
                                                                CFAF 10.8 billion out
                                                                of a total collection of
                                                                CFAF 18.8 billion was
                                                                transferred to the
                                                                Treasury.
COMPONENT II: STRENGTHENING PUBLIC SECTOR AND ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE
Strengthen the             Evidence of              Absence of (i) anti-       Production of: (i)            Mostly met. A draft
formulation,               anticorruption           corruption strategy;       annual program of             strategy was
coordination and           oversight committee      (ii) annual program;       activities for 2009; (ii)     presented to donors
monitoring of the          efforts                  and (iii) annual report    annual report for 2008        in June 2009.
Government's                                                                   to be submitted to            Regional
anticorruption policies                                                        Parliament; (iii)             consultations on the
                                                                               anticorruption                draft strategy are
                                                                               strategy.                     planned in
                                                                                                             November, and will
                                                                                                             be followed by
                                                                                                             consultations with all
                                                                                                             anti-corruption
                                                                                                             agencies in
                                                                                                             December. The anti-
                                                                                                             corruption strategy
                                                                                                             and action plan are
                                                                                                             expected to be


22
                              Monitoring
  EMGRG Expected                                                              EMGRG Target                   Status
                              Indicators              Baseline /Latest
    Outcomes                                                                     2009
                                                                                                      adopted by the
                                                                                                      government in
                                                                                                      January 2010. The
                                                                                                      Anti-Corruption
                                                                                                      Committee adopted
                                                                                                      an annual program
                                                                                                      for 2009. The report
                                                                                                      on its 2008 activities
                                                                                                      is under preparation
                                                                                                      and will be presented
                                                                                                      to Parliament in
                                                                                                      2010.

                         % of Government           Submission of            All Government            Met. All cabinet
                         members submitting        declaration of assets    members have              members have
                         clear asset declaration   without a standard       submitted asset           submitted an asset
                         form                      format                   declaration form using    declaration using a
                                                                            new format.               format developed
                                                                                                      with UNDP
                                                                                                      assistance. Senior
                                                                                                      government officials
                                                                                                      and senior public
                                                                                                      enterprise officials
                                                                                                      have been requested
                                                                                                      to do the same and
                                                                                                      they have complied.
                                                                                                      The asset
                                                                                                      declarations were
                                                                                                      disclosed to the
                                                                                                      public.

                         Publication and           No documents             Website having the        Met. The
                         content of key            available in             following content: (i)    government's
                         documents on the          Government website       mining and forestry       website has been
                         Government web-site                                concessions; (ii)         upgraded and key
                                                                            Treasury reports; (iii)   documents have been
                                                                            annual and quarterly      posted.
                                                                            budget reports; (iv)
                                                                            budget laws; (v)
                                                                            annual reports of the
                                                                            anticorruption
                                                                            committee; (vi) new
                                                                            mining, forestry and
                                                                            procurement codes.
Improved clarity and     Number of contracts       Use of old               At least 5 contracts      Met. As of July
efficiency of public     approved using new        procurement rules and    made as per new           2009, 10 contracts
procurement processes    procurement code          regulations              procurement code          have been processed
                                                                                                      under the new
                                                                                                      legislation.

Improved compliance      Number of operators       Two forestry             All forestry operators    Mostly met. Forestry
with forestry laws and   breaching national        operators failing to     comply and satisfy        operators are in
regulations              laws and regulations      pay entry taxes on due   national laws and         compliance with new

23
                              Monitoring
  EMGRG Expected                                                          EMGRG Target                   Status
                              Indicators          Baseline /Latest
    Outcomes                                                                 2009
                                                date (2007) and one     regulations in relation   Forest Code and
                                                large firm not paying   with fiscal obligations   implementing
                                                tax due to                                        decrees. They have
                                                Government                                        honored all tax
                                                                                                  payments due in
                                                                                                  2008 and 2009. The
                                                                                                  Government has paid
                                                                                                  all arrears on VAT
                                                                                                  reimbursement due to
                                                                                                  forest operators in
                                                                                                  2007 but still has to
                                                                                                  reimburse part of the
                                                                                                  VAT for 2008.
Strengthened regulatory   Number of             Zero (2007) according   All marketing             Met. Established
framework in the oil      downstream            to the new Law as of    companies operating       marketing companies
sector, monitor its       petroleum operators   March 2008              in the import, storage    active in the import,
compliance by all         in compliance with                            and distribution of       storage and
marketing companies       quality and safety                            petroleum must be in      distribution of
                          standards, and                                conformity with           petroleum products
                          national rules and                            national laws;            operate in conformity
                          regulations.                                  petroleum product         with national laws
                                                                        quality must meets all    and regulations. A
                                                                        international standards   control system is in
                                                                                                  place and ensures
                                                                                                  that the quality of
                                                                                                  petroleum products
                                                                                                  entering CAR meets
                                                                                                  established standards.




24
                     Evaluation of DPO II and Comments on the Draft
                   Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) Report

Introduction

The IDA grant in the amount of US$ 7.9 million to the CAR was approved to support economic
management and governance reforms, with the aim to strengthen public finances and improve
economic governance. Following the grant agreement, the Government designated the CTP/PAS
to serve as the implementing unit. This project supported the implementation of two pillars of the
PRSP, including the promotion of good governance and the development of a diversified
economy.

Context

Program implementation took place in a difficult environment, including conflicts in neighboring
countries, several strikes, including in the education sector, and weak income levels leading to
difficulties in managing Treasury operations. The economic recovery, which started in 2005
thanks to reforms initiated by the Government, is still fragile. In spite of an improvement in
public finance management, revenues remained low because of an extremely limited tax base,
and high dependency on price variations for oil and other commodities. Mobilization of external
resources was lower than expected. Under these conditions, it was difficult for the Government
to pay for debt service and meet huge reconstruction needs. The Grant extended by the World
Bank was essential for maintaining the course of reforms.

Implementation

The program was prepared rapidly, with a high degree of realism and in close consultation with
others donors, including the African Development Bank (AfDB), the IMF and the European
Union. Government services concerned were fully involved in program preparation. Triggers and
other policy actions were defined through a consultative process. The objectives of the programs
were realistic and have been achieved in a fully satisfactory manner. This has contributed to our
being able to meet the triggers for an AfDB program amounting to 9.5 million units of accounti.

We have reviewed the draft completion report prepared by the Bank and we agree with the
assessment. Our main constraint continues to be our limited capacity due to the departure of
many qualified staff during the crisis years. To address this problem, the Bank provided funding
for technical assistance and training. This has been a key factor for achieving the program's
objectives.

Results

All prior actions were met. To strengthen public finance management, the Government
implemented the following actions:




25
     ·   Adoption by presidential decree of new budget procedures and appointment of key personnel in
         the Budget and Treasury General Directorates.
     ·   Closing of 51 inactive Treasury accounts in commercial banks and transfer of balances in the
         Treasury account.
     ·   Adoption of a decree validating the accounting nomenclature after consultation with external
         partners and civil society
     ·   Ministry of Finance's decree redeploying Treasury agents in key ministries generating revenues
         (Youth, Defense, Interior, Trade, Education, Civil Service and Health).
     ·   Ministry of Finance's decree providing for the use of the SYDONIA software for managing
         custom duties on imports at the port of Douala.
     In the area of improved governance, the Government took extensive action as follows:
     ·   Creation by Presidential decree of a permanent and operational anti-corruption committee in the
         Prime Minister's Office.
     ·   Adoption and promulgation of the new Procurement Code.
     ·   Adhesion to EITI.
     ·   Publication of the list of forestry companies which did not meet their tax payment obligations and
         cancellation of forestry permits in case of non compliance with regulations.
     ·   Decree appointing the members of the regulatory authority for petroleum imports.
     ·   Signature of a contract between the regulatory authority and an external agency in charge of
         controlling the quality of imported petroleum products.
Other reforms

The Government has pursued its reform program, which led to the approval of another Bank-
supported program. These reforms were part of the matrix of policy actions agreed with the
donor community. The Government will continue to ensure that objectives of the reform
program are achieved.

In the area of public finance, quarterly budget execution reports are made available and
discussed with the donors involved in budget support. These reports are available within two
months after the end of the quarter. They include information on budget execution, including
expenditures by the priority ministries aimed at poverty alleviation. With the recent completion
of the interface between the software systems used by the Budget and Treasury Directorates, the
reports have become more reliable and comprehensive. Treasury officials have been assigned to
ministries generating revenues to ensure that these revenues are fully taken into account in
treasury operations. The State Inspectorate General has audited the revenues of the relevant
ministries and agencies.

The government accounts for 2008 are being finalized. This task was delayed because of the
need to collect all accounting documents, which are scattered in many places for lack of space
and adequate system of archives.

26
The Government has addressed the issue of arrears to the three public utilities. The 2009 budget
provides for full coverage of utility consumption. 6,350 new taxpayers have been identified and
have received their identification numbers. To harmonize data on external trade and ensure their
traceability, all revenues from customs are transferred to BEAC; and custom services, the
inspection company and the tax administration are now working on the same IT network. These
reforms have contributed to an increase in government revenues. Revenues on international trade
have increased from 1.8% of GDP in 2007 to 1.9% of GDP in 2008 and tax revenues, from 7.3%
of GDP to 7.9% of GDP.

In the area of governance, the anti-corruption committee has prepared a strategy, which was
shared with external partners in June 2009 for comments. A medium-term program has been
finalized. The report on 2008-09 activities is being finalized for presentation to Parliament. The
declaration of assets by cabinet members has been published. A presidential decree extended the
asset declaration obligation to the Senior Directors of major public enterprises and key senior
civil servants. All the individuals concerned have fully complied, following a new format
prepared with World Bank and UNDP assistance.. The State Inspectorate General disclosed the
information. This action has contributed to meeting the triggers for HIPC completion.

Procurement agencies have been established and received technical assistance from the World
Bank and the African Development Bank. The legal framework has been complemented by
decrees. All documents, including the manual of procedures, have been finalized. The General
Directorate for Procurement and the Regulatory Agency are operational. Their members have
been appointed and they have budget resources. Procurement officials in key ministries have
been appointed (infrastructure, agriculture, health and education). The Government intends to
harmonize procurement procedures and make them fully consistent to those used by project units
for projects financed by external donors. More than ten contracts have been concluded on the
basis of the new procedures.

The regulatory agency for petroleum products has been created and has adequate budget
allocations and personnel. In the framework of the new law, all operators in the sector have to
pay the fees. A quality control of products according to safety norms is in place, which allows
for traceability of products, fraud detection and ensuring that international standards are applied.
The Government with World Bank assistance is preparing an amendment to the regulatory
framework to ensure that the downstream sector operates in conformity with international
practice. A draft is available and will be reviewed during a workshop with representation of all
stakeholders, including the private sector, before final approbation.

The Government reimburses the VAT and has established a reimbursement schedule with
enterprises in the forestry sector. Because of the crisis, the Government has agreed to extend the
payment period of the annual fee by enterprises, instead of them paying the fee in one settlement
at the beginning of the year. This resulted in substantial assistance to the private sector which
was hit by the crisis. The total amount of VAT arrears has been reduced from CFAF 956.05
million in 2007 to CFAF 614.55 at end December 2008. The stock was equivalent to CFAF
893.13 million on October 30, 2009.



27
Program supervision

Bank supervision of the program by the Bank was appropriate. Donors were closely coordinated,
which contributed to the success of the program. Frequent supervision missions and monthly
videoconferences have helped maintain a continuous dialogue and a close cooperation between
the Government and the Bank team. LICUS grants II and III, by financing key activities, have
contributed to achieving the program's objectives. Approval of the third budget support
operation on March 30, 2009, will strengthen the results achieved.

Close coordination with other donors has contributed to accelerating program implementation.
AfDB has used the same policy action matrix and has selected prior actions among measures
proposed by the World Bank. The World Bank has worked closely with the UNDP and France to
finance activities in the matrix. The Grant by the World Bank has supported implementation of
the triggers for HIPC completion point.

The unit in charge of program monitoring - CTP/PAS ­ was also in charge of monitoring budget
support by other donors, including the IMF supported PRGF. The follow up operation has been
supervised in the same way and results are satisfactory. In the future, the Government intends to
continue using the same arrangement for monitoring implementation of programs supported by
donors. This will enable the Government to capitalize on experience gained.



     i
         PARE covering 2008-09 was financed through a UC 6.5 million from FAD and a UC 3 million grant.




28
