Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9490
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2170-BR)
APRIL 12, 1991
Infrastructure Sector Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
'[his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNH          -     National Housing Bank
CEBRAE       -     Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
CNDU         -     National Council of Urban Development
CNPU         -     National Commission for Urbar Policy and Metropolitan Regions
COOPESCA    -      Fishery Cooperative of Pernambuco
DER          -     (Pernambuco State) Highway Department
DIPER        -     Industrial Development Department of Pernambuco
FIDEM        -     Foundation for the Development of the RMR
MDU          -     Ministry of Urban Development
PND II      -      Second National Development Plan
RMR          -     Recife Metropolitan Region
SEPLAN      -      (Federal) Secretariat of Planning
SUDENE       -     (Federal) Development Superintendency of the North-East



THE W02LD BANK                 FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washinlton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0atnw £VINIMn
April 12, 1991
MEMORANDUM T0 THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Brazil
Recife MetroRolitan Region Develogment Prolect (Loan 2170-BR)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Recife Metropolitan Region Development Project
(Loan 2170-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hau a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotumnce
of their oficia! duties Its contents may not otherwise b disclosed without World Bank authouwioik.



FOR OMCL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
RECIPE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2170-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pane
No.
Preface   .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .  i
Evaluation Summary  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Identity.                         .............. .                1
Background  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    1
Sector Development Objectives ...   ........  .           .    .  .1
Policy Context  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   . . .  * .  .1
Linkages between project, sector and macro policy objectives  . .    2
Project Objectives and Description  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...  2
Project Objectives  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .    . . .   . . . . . . . .   2
Components  .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . .    .   2
Project Design and Organization ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  3
Project Implementatlon  . . . . . .                        .   . .   .    4
Project Results .. . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
Upgrading Component . . . .....             . ......   5
Metropolitan Infrastructure Component . . . . . .  . . . .  . . .       6
Institutional Development Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Sustainability  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . .   .  .    .    9
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Project Relationship  ............ .......                               11
Consulting Services..... . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Project Documentation and Data ..         .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  11
Lessons of the Experience ...................    11
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .  14
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.)                                                  Page No.
Project Timetable .. . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . .   22
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Loan DisbuLsements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Project Costs and Financing .             .   . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .    24
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Direct Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
B. Economic Impact . .............. ..    26
C. Financial Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Use of Bank Resources .                                                  . . . .
A. Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
B. Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31



i
BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2170-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report pertains to the Recife Metropolitan Region
Development Project in Brazil, for which a loan in the amount of US$123.9 million
equivalent was approved on June 3, 1982. The loan was closed on December 31,
1989, one year behind schedule. The last disbursement was on May 2, 1990. Total
disbursements were US$107.96 million and US$15.94 million were canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Sector Operations Division of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office Country Department I
(Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). During February - June 1990, FIDEM, the
Recife Metropolitan Development Agency and project coordinator, prepared a
substantial PCR, the full eight volumes of which are available in the project's
file. The Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective has been summarized in
Part II of this report.
Preparation of this PCR began during the Bank'    ial supervision mission
in February 1990 and is based inter-alia, on the Staff Lppraisal Report; the Loan
and Project Agreements; supervision reports and disccssions with the project team
in Recife.



BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2170-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Brazil's nine metropolitan regions, as the prime movers of the national
economy were the focus of a CNPU federal development program. In addition to
stimulating economic growth, equity arguments favored invcstment in the poorer
metropolitan regions of Brazil's North-East. The Recife project was to be the
first of three to cover the region's metropolitan regions.   The project was
prepared under an institutional framework linked to an authoritarian regime.
Many of the difficulties in execution can be traced to the fact that it was
implemented under increasingly democratic institutional arrangements. Another
important premise was that continued high economic growth would allow the federal
public sector to continue provision of substantial grants as counterpart funds
in the project.
Objectives
These very ambitiously included reshaping the Recife Metropolitan Region
(RMR) spatially, building up new selective institutional arrangements for
metropolitan planning and coordination, and providing Infrastructure and housing.
They were to be achieved through the four major components: (i) upgrading of poor
areas; (ii) metropolitan infrastructure; (iii) income creation through support
of small businesses; and (iv) institutional development.
Implementation Experience
Only one loan extension was needed to complete the project due to a
realistic implementation schedule devised at appraisal. Implementation was not
smooth however, and indications of the changing economic and political context
appeared shortly after loan signing.   Four months after loan signing,  the
international debt crisis broke, and at about the same time, the newly elected
governor of Pernambuco gave a much lower priority to the project than his
predecessor. Twice during implementation, federal funding for the project was
held up as a reprisal for the opposition tactics by the Pernambuco State
government on some issue or other, being promoted by the federal government.
Implementation accelerated during the last two years of the loan when the project
was finally adapted with Bank support, to the changing circumstances of greater
local democracy and increased municipal power enshrined in the 1988 Constitution.
Results
The project did not achieve the over-ambitious goals set for it. Far from
consolidating metropolitan planning and coordination, project completion was to
witness the dismantling of the metropolitan plannirg arrangements in Recife with
the abolition of FIDEM, the principal project exe_uting agency.



iii
Nevertheless, important experiences of upgrading favelas were achieved,
albeit below the set target (para. 20). Of the metropolitan infrastructure, the
solid waste component's disposal system floundered as smaller municipalities
began to assert themselves and local political rivalries came to the fore (para.
21). The BR 101 riatropolitan corridor was successfully implemented (para. 22).
Although built, the Curarlo Ur, i Center, did not take off in the ensuing downturn
of the RMR economy and its commercialization waa poorly managed by the local
authorities  (para. 23).   A diverse array of income creation components was
conceived but all had in common tne poor employment generat.on results achieved
(paras. 24-25). The institutional development component suffered from the major
political and institutional changes that took place during implementation,
although much human resource development remains in the RMR through training
(paras. 26-29). Good poverty impacts in the form of improved access to basic
services were achieved (para. 31), although they were mixed as far as the
environment was concerned (para. 30).
Sustainability
Although the project was intended to and introduced the concept of cost
recovery to the RMR, it generally operated as a grant funding, non-sustainable
operation.   As a result, cost recovery performanice overall was rather poor.
Nevertheless, as loan closing approached, there were signs of greater rigor, with
local authorities beginning to see the need for greater financial stringency with
the ending of project grr.nt funding in sight (paras. 33-34). Maintenance of the
project investments has been mixed (para. 35).
Findings and Lessons
With 183 actions planned through 33 agencies,  the project proved too
complex an undertaking.
Project design and implementation schedules should take into account the
local electoral calendar to ensure continuity.   In Brazil, an incoming
administration,   at  best,   implements  its  predecessor's  agreements
unenthusiastically.
Democratization played havoc with a project designed for an authoritarian
institutional arrangements. As the scale of such political changes cannot
be foreseen, periodic reviews are important to adapt a project to the
rapidly changing circumstances.
Long term institutional development requires permanent improvements to
agencies' management through technical assistance and training. Providing
agencies with ir.struments developed outside is not enough by itself.
The variation of the effectiveness of institutional development between
municipalities depends less upon income level, than upon the willingness
of local authorities to engage in the programs offered.
Project financing requires a simpie flow of funds to minimize bureaucratic
details, especially when there is involvement of different levels of
government (Federal, State and Municipality).   Instead there should be
greater emphasis and reliance upon ex-post monitoring, rather than on ex-
ante controls.



iv
During project prepaLation, it is Jmportant to keep all parties, whose
subsequent collaboration will be necessary, informed about the proposals
being discussed.
Making a valuable contribution to project preparation does not
automatically qualify an agency for implementation responsibilities.
Income and employment creation activities in a market economy, however
small, are, in the final analysis, commercial operations, and need to be
treated as such with major responsibilities for operation held by the
private sector.
With hindsight, a substantial re-design of the project would be warranted.
The lessons o: Recife have been taken into account in designing current
Bank urban sector operations in Brazil.
Finally, Bank supervision efforts must be improved to provide more
continuity (difficult with the increased use of consultants) during
project implementation.



BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2170-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name                 : Recife Metropolitan Region Development Project
Loan Number          : 2170-BR
RVP Unit             : LAC
Country                 Brazil
Subsectors              shelter, transport, small business credit,
infrastructure, municipal development.
B. Background
Sector Developnrent Objectives
1.    Rapid population growth had characterized Brazil's nine metropolitan
regions during the 1970s. Led by the industrial development of Rio de Janeiro
and especially Sao Paulo, they were the driving force behind the country's rapid
economic growth.  It was proposed that the remainder, including Recife could
eventually play a similar role in Brazil's development. Thus, a project aimed
at strengthening the economic base of the RMR, through the provision of shelter,
infrastrucLure and employment opportunities, as well as improving local planning
and management capabilities, neatly fit this strategy. Furthermore, it had the
redistributive quality of helping Brazil's poorer North-East region.
2.    That was in 1980, as the project was being prepared -- a very different
period from today's. Then, high economic growth rates were expected to resume
as Brazil weathered the storm of the second oil shock of 1979, through increased
external borrowing to fuel internal demand. Also then, an authoritarian regime
in Brazil, albeit timidly beginning the process of "opening up" to democratic
reform, had seemingly unlimited resources to direct centralist programs of local
investments.  All that was to change, however, with dire consequences for a
project borne of one era and which had to try to adapt to the fast changing
context in which it found itself. The explosion of the international debt crisis
in October 1982, only four months after the loan was signed, was only the first
of many portentous events to shake the increasingly questioned foundations of the
project. In fact, the story of this project is one of its successes and failures
in trying to adapt to the fast moving scenario, which has many interesting
lessons for sector operations in similar circumstances in other countries.
Policy Context
3.    With metropolitan planning institutionalized in Brazil (by Complementary
Law No. 14 of June 8, 1973), the federal government, through CNPU, began to
develop a Metropolitan Regions Program aimed at coordinating federal sectoral
investments, especially to the poorer metropolis of the North-East. This policy
was incorporated into the Second National Developmenc Plan (II PND) 1975-79,
which called for strengthening the management capabilities of the newly created



metropolitan development authorities and the respective agency for Recife, FIDEM,
created in 1975, was chosen as the principal executing agency of the project.
4.    Very soon after project start-up, however, the centralization behind this
policy began to fall apart, as Brazil embarked upon a process of democratization,
which, for all its positive attitude,<, was to dismantle metropolitan planning
throughout the country by project completion in 1990.  Even at th    inception,
't is important to note, metropolitan agencies were seen by many as uccupying an
awkward interstice between state and municipal powers in Brazil's federal system.
With democratic elections for state governors (1982) and mayors (1983 and 1985)
legitimizing their power, support for the metropolitan agencies throughout Brazil
waned, until outright objr I I.ons forced their closure.   Furthermore, lack of
funds meant that the heavy grant-dependent metropolitan program, was no longer
feasible for the federal governmePt.   The State of Pernambuco had wished to
abolish FIDEM as early as 1988, but retained it to comply with the project's
legal agreements which bound it to the Bank.
Linkages between project, sector and macro policy objectives
5.    Even before the demise of metropolitan planning in Brazil, other major
changes raised doubts about the priority of a project which had been so well in
tune with sectoral and macroeconomic objectives during its preparation (1979-
1982). Structural adjustment and economic recession followed the debt crisis of
1982, with a 4.1Z fall of GDP in 1983. As part of a stand-by agreement with the
IMF, government expenditures were cut.  Grant financed metropolitan programs,
such as the project itself were no longer replicable in the new tight fiscal
climate. To lower local counterpart funding, the project scope was reduced from
US$347 million to US$248 million, thr'ugh an amendment to the Loan Agreement in
1986.
C. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
6.    These very ambitiously included reshaping the RMR spatially, building up
new institutional arrangements for metropolitan planning and coordination, and
providing infrastructure and housing. As stated in Loan Agreement (Schedule 2),
the purposes of the project were to: "provide or improve housing, infrastructure
and services within the existing urban fabric in the Recife Metropolitan Region;
to provide infrastructure and services on a metropolitan scale in order to
support, complement and induce desired patterns of metropolitan development; to
generate and enhance income, especially for the urban poor; and to strengthen the
institutions respensible for the planning, administration and financial
management associated with urban and metropolitan region development."
Components
7.    As appraised, the project included four key components or sLb-projects:
a.    Upgrading of poor areas, or favelas, in the municipalities of Recife
and Jaboatao (US$125.4 million, or 36.1? of SAR costs);
b.    Metropolitan Infrastructure, including an urban freeway access, a
secondary urban center with housing, development of the river
Capibaribe which cuts Recife, and a metropolitan garbage collection
and disposal system (US$169.2 million, or 48.7? of SAR costs);



3
c.    Income Creation, such as technical assistance to micro-enterprises
and support to shrimp production, fisheries and tourism activities
(US$21.3 million, or 6.1% of SAR costs);
d.    InFtitutional Development,  including a metropolitan  information
syszem for planning, technical assistance and training for
municipalities (US$31.9 million, or 9.2Z of SAR costs).
The 1986 loan amendment increasing Bank participation and reducing the scale of
the project to US$247.9 million retained a similar breakdown of key components.
D. Project Design and Organization
8.    Enthusiasm, enhanced by commonality of purpose, characterized the technical
teams preparing this roject on both the Government and Bank sides. Experience
with four earlier urban lendirg operations in Brazil increased the confidence of
the Bank preparation missions. In Recife, preparation accelerated with the use
of the entire team responsible for the earlier Medium-Sized Cities Project (Loan
'720-BR) in Campina Grande in neighboring Paraiba. A detailed management system
was worked out (SAR para. 6.03) to try to assign responsibilities b-tween SUDENE
and FIDEM without ambiguity.   The design of this project attei.pted to put
previously acquired experience to good use. Nevertheless, it became extremely
complex, contemplating 184 separate actions altogether, through 27 agencies at
federal, state and municipal levels of government.
9.    Agreement between the Government and the Bank on project design was
facilitated through the project's harnessing existing priority investments
already in the local authotities' programs. Building upon this consensus, it was
easier to introduce more innovative concepts, such as targeting on the poor, cost
recovery and the metropolitan dimension. The project's ambitious aims appeared
justified on the basis on the influence to be derived from accounting for some
50% of all public sector investments in the RMR during implementation.
10.   In spite of this agreement, two important agencies whose future cooperation
was essential to the project's success, played only marginal roles in
preparation. Firstly SEPLAN, responsible for final federal government approval
for the operation, had not been consulted and threatened te- withhold approval on
the grounds that Recife was already the beneficiary of excessive external aid.
Appraisal was del&.yed for more than three months while political support was
mobilized. Secon6ly, the National Housing Bank (BNH) -- in effect the project's
co-financier -- was consulted only at the last moment of appraisal. It remained
a reluctant partner to this venture, with little interest in relieving
bureaucratic delays in funding that were to harm project implementation later.
An important lesson here is the need to fully inform if not involve all parties
whose collaboration is essential for project success
11.   During preparation, the major federal role was played out by SUDENE, the
North-East development agency.  At that tliae, the National Council for Urban
Development (CNDU) had insufficient staff and resources to manage the operation
from Brasilia.   SUDENE was expected to continue to play a rajor role during
implementation in reviewing all project disbursements and procurement. Although
the agency had made an important contribution towards the preparation of the
project, its Urban Development Coordination (with a total staff of 11) had
insufficient staff and resources to deal with the subsequent heavy administrative
burdens. An important lesson is that however good, an agency is at preparation,
it is not automatically qualified for the tasks of implementation, which requires



4
an efficiently managed institution to handle the vast quantity of information
generated by the operation every day.
12.   The main executing agency in the RMR was FIDEM.  At appraisal, the Bank was
confident of the agency's competence (SAR para. 6.08) to carry out the project,
through its previous experience with Bank financed projects in Recife.   In
retrospect, a local legal opinion at appraisal might have identified the
ambiguous executive position of FIDEM as a foundation, which would subsequently
drain its executive authority. However, dLe degree of growth of municipal power
that was to undermine its political authority could not have been reasonably
foreseen at  that  time.   For this  reason,  the SAR foresaw the continuous
strengthening of FIDEM as metropolitan agency, even to the point of contemplating
the creation of metropolitan sources of revenue (SAR para. 4.19).
13.   The municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao were also key executing agencies,
particularly  for upgrading.    The  project wisely  relied upon  their known
experience to execute sub-projects in which they had a proven track record.
14.   The complex flow of funds through four levels of bureaucracy conceived at
appraisal (SAR para. 5.04) was in the centralist tradition of numerous ex-ante
checks by higher authorities. Later, however, it was to impose heavy losses of
real value of disbursements from money tied up in intermediary agencies during
periods of high inflation.  Th"s the overall design was well conceived for an
authoritarian administration to execute during a period of low inflation and/or
adequate indexation. With decentralization and declining economic prosperity,
however, it was a difficult design to implement. How it did and did nc. adapt
to its circumstance make up the story of the project.
E. Project Implementation
15.   The loan was fully disbursed in 7.5 years, against an appraisal "best
estimate" of 6.5 years (SAR - Annex 2). The wise rejection of an unrealistically
"optimistic estimate" of 4.5 years at appraisal meant that only one loan
extension was required, namely in 1988.   Although the loan became effective
within five months of signing, a very short period for operations in Brazil in
any sector, start-up was significantly delayed by the political configuration
formed shortly afterwards. The newly elected governor in 1982, who had drawn few
votes from the RMR, gave the project a lower priority than his predecessor. This
made it difficult for the project to capture the attention of the highest
authority in the State at critical junctures, to help solve crises, such as the
debacle of the metropolitan solid waste component (para. 21).  Moreover, the
project's metropolitan goals and its sponsorship by the State of Pernambuco, did
not fit well into the new political space created by the first direct election
of mayor of Recife in 1983. The successor opposition mayor of Recife elected in
1985, wished to re-examine the basic precepts of a project inherited from the
military regime.  While the SAR  .,entioned the risks of political discontinuity
(para. 8.08), the implementation schedule clearly did not take into account the
local political calendar which was known at that time.
16.   The FIDEM PCR divides project implementation into three phases (see Part
II), a useful distinction that will be used here. The First Phase (1982-85), was
one of adaptation and putting institutional ar angements into operation.
Nevertheless, according to the SAR (best estimate), 64.0% of the loan was to have
been disbursed during this period, against an actual performance of only 16.4%.
This was a period during which federal funding was withheld from the State of



5
Pernambuco reportedly as a repri.sal for the State Governor's support of the
opposition candidate for president, Tancredo Neves. Change, however, was to have
to await the Second Phase (1986-87). Monthly inflation had already reached 15.0%
in January 1986, and that combined with a slow processing of loan disbursements
caused significant losses in their real value to executing agencies. The Bank's
response in February 1986 was to propose an amendment to the Loan Agreement,
raising its disbursement rate to 68Z. Disbursements began to improve, thanks
also to a increase of public sector revenues flowing from the Cruzado Plan
announced the same month.   Some US$26.8 million was disbursed, close to the
appraisal estimate.   The Third Phase (1988-90)  saw the project expanded to
include, for the first time, all the municipalities of the RMR. It introduced
an operations manual to help guide FIDEM's relations with them, whose power and
resources had been substantiated through the new constitution promulgated in
October 1988. With enhanced local responsibilities, the municipalities were more
willing to discuss cost recovery and improved financial management and
administrative strengthening, matters that were highlighted by a changed Bank
team. US$31.3 million was disbursed during this period, against an SAR forecast
of US$19.0 million for the last two years.
17.   Throughout the project period, political events constantly impacted on
federal-state relationships. Economic decline in the RMR and the cut back of
public finance already mentioned, exacerbated the problems. National economic
growth averaged only 2.6Z per annum and annual inflation, which had been 95.4%
in 1982, reached 2,270% in 1989, notwithstanding a price freeze early in that
yearl  The political agenda was full, and each major event traumatized the
project. Gubernatorial elections in 1982 lowered its priority and in 1986 led
to a major re-examination of its precepts. For different reasons, both resulted
in reprisals of federal government funding cutbacks: in 1984 for the state's
support to the opposition candidate Tancredo Neves, and in 1988 for the state's
refusal to endorse the extension of the incumbent president's mandate to five
years. Municipal elections of 1983 and 1985 brought to power mayors opposed to
the state governor, and hence created tense relations with the project.
Altogether, this was an intensive political calendar which brought major changes
that could not have been foreseen at appraisal.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
18.   The project did not achieve the over-ambitious goals it set for itself.
The spatial restructuring of the RMR did not take place, a strong metropolitan
planning and development agency, far from emerging, was abolished altogether, the
economy of the RMR is stagnating and replicable methods (with cost recovery) for
dealing with the housing and employment needs of the urban poor were not
adequately developed. Nevertheless there were important positive results which
are considered here.  The project should be judged in terms of what it might
reasonably have been expected to achieve and not in terms of the grandiose
objectives declared at appraisal. In retrospect, the expected achievements of
the project were over-stated at appraisal.
19.   In many ways, the UPGRADING COMPONENT was one of the more successful of the
project.    It  succeeded,  with  the help  of the  sharp  spatial  residential
segregation by income in Recife and Jaboatao, in benefitting the urban poor,
particularly those living on slopes ("morros") and areas prone to flooding.
Ingenious technical solutions for stabilizing slopes using rocks and plastic
netting were developed and have been applied in other cities in Brazil. Also,
a 'condominial" sewerage system involving small localized treatment plants, was



6
successfully applied in new housing areas through the project. In all cases, the
project wisely built upon local know-how, making the most of established skills
and techniques in the RMR. The upgrading made considerable improvements to the
local environment. Due to the local authorities inability to cope with the scale
of operation foreseen, particularly in the city of Recife, and an initial
reluctance to depart from former higher standards, the component benefitted only
44,900 people, or 36Z of the intended target.   A weak performance of cost
recovery with this component mars the achievements and helps explain why the
component is not being replicated on a larger scale.
20.   The METROPOLITAN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENl included diverse sub-projects.
Perhaps, symbolically the most important was the metropolitan solid waste sub-
project. Considerabl- *.nd imaginative effort had gone into creating a system
which would rely uJ,'  knicipalities for collection, but disposal would be
organized on a metr)o. *.ran-wide basis, by FIDEM itself during the first two
years (SAR para. 6.. t As events were to unfold, the collection component of
the  sub-project  we-.  r.:,   with  notable  improvements  in  local  services
particularly in Recife ar4 Jilboatgo, while the disposal component was abandoned
altogether.  The fact that Recife garbage today is disposed of in precarious
untreated dumps in precarious environmental conditions, is a statement of the
failure of the metropolitan concept in Recife. One key cause was the opposition
of local mayors (particularly in Olinda) who mobilized popular campaigns around
slogans such as "stop throwing (Recife's) garbage on the heads of our poor" and
also engaged professional opinion which doubted the environmental safety of the
proposed in-fills and the Peixinhos transfer station. For its part, FIDEM also
contracted technical appraisals that proved them to be safe. Nevertheless, the
issue was to be fought out at the political level, where FIDEM's legitimacy was
increasingly questioned by locally elected representatives. The Bank itself was
slow to read the significance of these developments. Still in May 1984, after
protest marches by local community groups, backed by church groups, the Bank
remained optimistic that the system would soon be operating. In retrospect, had
the Bank recognized the likely destiny of this component at that time, it could
have negotiated an alternative solution with the RMR municipalities. As it was,
it took nearly two years until March 1986 for the Bank to recognize the demise
of this sub-project, by which time, the municipality of Recife had devised its
own (unsatisfactory) solution. Today, garbage is thrown into open tips, whose
capacity is nearly exhausted with the minimum of sanitary treatment.'
21.   The BR-101 Metropolitan Corridor sub-project, a four lane urban freeway
with a central reserved bus-way of some 10.6 km has already considerably improved
access to the north. The design was based upon a successful model used in the
city of Curitiba, Parana.
22.   Another sub-project that was very metropolitan in conception was the Curado
Urban Center, ambitiously intended to create the secondary urban center of
Recife, some 14 kilometers to the west of the city on the BR 232 road access.
Infrastructure for industrial and commercial development and an associated
housing scheme was executed expeditiously. However, due to the decline of the
RMR economy during the 1980's (which could not have been reasonably foreseen at
For a more detailed account, especially of the political
aspects of this component, see: Fitz Ford Review of the
Institutional Development Sub-Project of the Recife
Metropolitan Region Development Project October 17, 1990.



7
appraisal), the majority of the facilities remain unused. The anticipated spurt
of urban growth in this direction did not occur. Even so, the lots provided were
marketable, but three years were to lapse between their completion and sale. The
opportunity cost of this US$15 million investment seemed to be of little concern
to DIPER, the executing agency, since it was not responsible for the financial
performance of the sub-project.   Intensive discussions with Bank missions
eventually mobilized the State government to sell them.
23.   As with similar urban projects of that generation financed by the Bank in
other countries, the INCOME CREATION COMPONENT of this one was not successful,
in spite of the array of methods proposed at appraisal.   They included the
Jaboatao Industrial Center, which was not fully implemented owing to the
reluctance of the local authority to accept full cost recovery from the
beneficiaries of the industrial lots provided.   Even though completed, cost
recovery had not been put into practice for users of stalls in a Recife
Productivity Center, in spite of the commercial nature of the businesses operated
there.    Tourism  promotion,  which  included  the  restoration  of historical
buildings, a camp site and beach front development on the attractive island of
Itamaracd, although executed, has left a series of minor under-utilized
investments for which maintenance is wanting. The difficulties of the Fishing
Cooperative were for different reasons, namely the opposition by the local
community to its creation and by its poor management. The result is an over-
scaled and poorly maintained facility.  At the time of appraisal, the Prawn
culture sub-project was innovative, but later succumbed to the output of other
producers with which it could not compete. By today's standards, this activity
would be considered as a private sector responsibility. Most hope for employment
creation, however, had been vested in technical and financial assistance to
micro-enterprises. While the FIDEM-PCR gives inadequate credit as the reason for
the failure of this sub-project, another was the under-estimation of the scale
of the task of administering loans and technical assistance to 8,040 micro-
enterprises in Recife and Jaboatao. The inability of local agencies to deal with
this, led to federal agencies, such as CEBRAE, to be called in, at the suggestion
of the Bank. This improved the training and technical assistance provided, but
the number of new permanent jobs created was insignificant. The lesson of the
experience is the need for a commercial approach to commercial operations,
however small.  Local government agencies, accustomed to providing subsidized
incentives in the form of grants to a selected few2, found it difficult to
implement cost recovery policies and procedures for the program to become
replicable.
24.   The part of the INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT that was harnessed to
the strengthening of metropolitan institutions and development processes, was
interred with  the  abolition  of  FIDEM  at  project  completion.    Thus  the
coordination  and  administration  sub-projects,  which  included  reporting
arrangements to FIDEM of the 18 different agencies providing urban services in
the RMR, and even contemplated developing metropolitan legislation and sources
of revenue (SAR para. 4.19), had to be abandoned as political change swept away
Brazil's metropolitan agencies.   Even with such setbacks,  some of FIDEM's
2      The SAR  (Supplementary Volume para.  31)  states that there are
120,000 micro-enterprises in the RMR, but gives no criteria for how
the 8,500 (7.1Z of total) to benefit from the project are to be
selected. Evidently, the opportunities for political clientelism in
such a selection approach are considerable.



8
considerable human resource development was retained through the incorporation
of the core project team into the State secretariat of planning. Throughout the
RMR, some 2,400 professionals of all agencies received training through the
project, 602 more than anticipated at appraisal.
25.   In spite of the uncertainty that abated FIDEM, especially during the third
phase of implementation, under the systems improvement sub-project it was able
to develop UNIBASE, a sophisticated mapping and information system for the RMR.
Water, energy and telephone utilities have shown considerable interest in using
the maps produced fcr planning and managing their networks.  They could also
prove useful in clarifying land claim disputes and help ease the considerable
backlog of cases in the courts in Recife. More work needs to be done still, to
introduce the RMR municipalities to the advantages of working with this material,
with a view to eventually increasing their revenues from property taxes. The
economic study of the RMR, carried out under the studies sub-project, did produce
valuable research that stimulated concern with the economic issues of the RMR,
although its bearing upon other project actions is difficult to appreciate.
26.   The shift towards increasing emphasis upon municipalities during the third
phase came too late for the project to give much support to the municipalities
of the RMR apart from Recife and Jaboatao, as foreseen under the technical
assistance to municipalities sub-project. At project closing their management
and financial systems remain weak. However, 28 programs of expanding municipal
cadastres were carried out under the project, not by the municipalities directly,
but on their behalf by FIDEM. Nine municipalities benefitted from updating their
legislation on land-use zoning and control and sub-division and building
regulations. However, local interest in such instruments handed down by FIDEM
has been lukewarm.   The lesson of this experience is that their successful
application can only be assured if municipalities feel involved in their
preparation. The FIDEM PCR (section 5.4) provides a detailed diagnostic of the
impact cf the project upon each of the municipalities which make up the RMR. The
Bank's PCR endorses these findings.   The lesson of them is that a lot can
achieved in strengthening municipal management in a short time provided the
objective and local commitment are clear.
27.   The Community participation sub-project, which included a "master plan of
action for mobilizing community participation on a regional basis" and "a central
information center for coordinating and disseminating information" (SAR
Supplementary Vol. para. 52), appealed to the populist style that characterized
the authoritarian politics at the time of appraisal. Unwittingly, the project
succeeded in mobilizing local community action dramatically against it in the
case of the metropolitan solid waste component, which failed to withstand the
onslaught of the local communities adversely affected. Where action could have
been successful in environmental and health education programs, little progress
was recorded, partly because the project failed to deal with the growing power
of local groups as democratization got under way during implementation.
28.   In terms of the environment, the impact of the project as a whole was
mixed. The upgrading of 47 low income areas through the introduction of drainage
and innovative sewerage systems has improved the environmental health of the
local populations. On the other hand, the failure of the original concept of the
solid waste component and the option for inadequate ad hoc solutions for disposal
especially in Recife itself, can lead to environmental problems unless adequate
treatment is introduced soon.



9
29.   As far as its poverty impact is concerned, the majority of project actions,
in particular in upgrading, brought priority benefits to low income urban
residents of the RMR.
30.   In view of the economic downturn of the metropolitan region, recalculated
economic rates of return would be expected to yield returns lower than those
calculated at appraisal. The lack of available data on this complex project has
not permitted their re-calculation, however, due to the exhaustive data
requirements, and the immobilization of FIDEM (see para 38) this effort was not
considered justified.
G. Project Sustainability
31.   The project succeeded in introducing the concept of cost recovery in a
region where paternalism had predominated the allocation of public investments.
With only very limited practical results achieved, however, the sustainability
of project investments must be a cause of concern. Considerable attention was
given to cost recovery and its mechanisms at appraisal (SAR paras. 7.17-7.20),
but the impetus was lost with little attention given to it during supervision.
In the case of the Curado Urban Center, for example, a major investment remained
idle for three years after completion in 1986, before the lots produced were
commercialized, showing the scant concern of the local authorities to achieve a
satisfactory financial result.  Also commercial stalls in Recife were let at
below market rents with energy costs borne by the municipality. There vwre signs
of greater rigor, however, as local authorities began to see the need for greater
financial stringency with the ending of project grant funding in sight.
32.   The municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao especially had become dangerously
dependent on project financing. During the first and second phases of the project
(1982-85 and 1986-1987), project investments accounted for 35.5Z and 47.02 of
each city's investments respectively. During the third phase (1988-1990) when
disbursements were most rapid, the project accounted for even more, namely 64.82
of all investments by all the municipalities of the RMR. Clearly, such a share
of financing based upon grant funding was not sustainable without continued
external assistance. As municipal administrations became more aware of this with
the approaching completion of the project, their concern about improving their
own revenues and financial management increased. In retrospect, there can be
little doubt that the local authorities regarded the project as an important
alternative source of revenue, through which they could postpone efforts to
improve their own financial performance.
33.   The maintenance of project components has been mixed.  While equipment and
buildings have suffered premature decay through lack of maintenance in the fish
cooperative and the tourist facilities provided, with larger upgrading
components, maintenance by the local communities themselves has been effective.
H. Bank Performance
34.   Considerable Bank staff and consultant resources were devoted to the
project (221 staff weeks throughout).  Its  complexity, with so many actions
envisioned, however, meant that adequate attention could not be given to all of
them. 66Z of staff resources were applied to preparation and appraisal, which
was expeditious, given the complex nature of the operation. At that time, Bank
staff and consultants enthusiastically applied themselves to seeking, along with
local officials, innovative solutions to metropolitan problems in Brazil through



10
the project.   Particular emphasis was given to the institutionalization of
metropolitan planning in the RMR.
35.   Along with a change of staff, interest shifted during early supervision to
immediate tasks of physical implementation, while persistent efforts were made,
but later frustrated, to bring the income creation components to life. During
the first phase of implementation (1982-85), Bank missions were able to provide
well received advice on the technical execution of a number of key components,
most notably alternative methods of sanitation. The second phase (1986-87), saw
Bank supervision effort plummet; inspite of the appointment of a new task manager
who was soon to be re-assigned to other work during the Bank's reorganization.
The hiatus was broken during the third phase (1988-90), during which a new task
manager would steer supervision more towards the institutional aspects of the
project, especially the strengthening of the municipal administrations in the
RMR. Financial aspects and cost recovery increasing rame into the fore in the
later years, and Bank missions were staffed ace dingly leading to some
frustration by project officials accustomed to attention primarily to physical
progress.
36.   Throughout  implementation,  Bank  missions  found  themselves  devoting
considerable time to dealing with minutia of particularly pressing details of the
project, perhaps losing sight of more major issues. During the first phase, they
included physical design details, while during the third phase, they included the
detailed arrangements for the borrower to repay the Bank US$7.9 million for
expenditures which had been mis-procured.  At the same time, complaints were
often informally voiced by local officials about the long time taken by the Bank
to enact agreements reached with the missions.
I. Borrower Performance
37.   During project preparation the enthusiasm of the teams in Recife was
translated into action by drawing on the previous experience of officials who had
previously worked o' the Medium-Sized Cities Project (Loan 1720-BR) in the
neighboring city of Campina Grande. City of Recife personnel played a key role
in the early stages and their efforts were efficiently consolidated by teams from
FIDEM and SUDENE  (the latter working on behalf of CNDU in Brasilia).   As
mentioned earlier, SUDENE's role diminished as it became unable to handle the
mass of day-to-day administration during project implementation. In 1985, the
newly created Ministry of Urban Development (MDU) took the policy lead in project
management, but its technical contribution was overshadowed by the political
quarrels with the State of Pernambuco that it set in motion.
38.   During implementation, FIDEM developed considerable skills in the planning
and execution of development projects, skills that were not matched, however, in
the development of effective working relationships with the municipalities of the
RMR until the end of the project.   Municipal teams in Recife and Jaboatao
especially, were able to execute their major components as planned, as did the
highways department DER of the State government. Also, financial management and
economic analysis were never strong points of FIDEM's administration throughout
implementation. Discontinuity resulting from frequent changes of top management
(there were seven superintendents during project implementation) was compounded
sporadic and unpredictable alterations in the authority of the FIDEM
superintendency within the State Government. As well as slowing institutional
development, these uncertainties made the institution easier prey for those
wishing to abolish it.   Upon its being made extinct,  the State government



11
recognized the human resource capital built up in FIDEM by endeavoring to
incorporate its core personnel within the secretariat of planning.
J. Project Relationship
39.   In spite of the problems encountered in implementation, local teams and
Bank missions enjoyed very good relationships throighout. Enthusiasm to tackle
the problems posed was a key ingredient on both sides. The Bank did not enjoy
such close relations with its principal co-financier, the BNH, which was a
reluctant party to the project.
40.   Given the project's complexity and the number of agencies involved, it is
not surprising that some antagonistic relationships emerged, particularly as the
electoral cycle placed opposing or rival candidates in positions of project
interlocutors.    Conflicts with  the  federal  government  have  already  been
mentioned.    In  Recife  itself,  conflicts  arose  between  FIDEM  and  some
municipalities of the RMR, whose mayors were generally from the opposing
political party to the governor's.   These problems cost the project federal
counterpart funds and the outright local opposition to the execution of a key
component, such as the solid waste for example. Because of the large amount of
resources involved, some local conflicts were able to assume a scope that would
have been inconceivable without the project.   An important lesson of the
experience is that project design should be simple involving few agencies over
a short time scale to avoid creating a complex web of inter-relationships with
unlimited points of potential conflict.
K. Consulting, Services
41.   In general, the work undertaken by consultants and contractors for the
project, most of whom were from Recife, was well executed.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
42.   Project legal documents provided a clear direction for implementation that
was well understood by local officials. Two amendments to the Loan Agreement,
helped it keep up with the changing circumstances of the project.   The SAR
provided a clear  framework  for implementation in the  first  phase.   Its
effectiveness as a guide to local officials was limited, however, by the detailed
project description and costs being consigned to a confidential SAR Supplementary
Volume which received only a limited circulation.
43.   The full FIDEM PCR runs to eight volumes and is replete with project
information to a degree rarely attained for other urban operations in Brazil or
elsewhere. Except for the re-calculation of the internal rate of return, all
information for project completion was readily available.
M. Lessons of the Experience
44.   With 183 actions planned through 33 agencies, the project proved too
complex an undertaking.   Neither supervision by FIDEM nor the Bank could be
adequate.  The flow of funds became a labyrinth.  There were too many flash-
points for conflicting interests between agencies and personalities.   The
experience highlights the need for a simpler project, one which would concentrate
upon a few priority components, involving only those agencies with clear legal
responsibilities and political authority for implementation and operation. This



12
lesson was taken into account in designing more recent sector urban projects in
Brazil (Municipal Development Projects in the State of Parana and Rio Grande do
Sul - Loans 3100-BR and 3129-BR).
45.   To limit the opportunities for political conflict and help ensure more
continuity, project design and implementation schedules should take into account
the local electoral calendar, which is clearly laid out in Brazil.   With
hindsight today, agreements would not have been sought with an outgoing
administration. The tradition in Brazil -- confirmed by this project -- is that,
at best, they will be implemented unenthusiastically by the successor government.
An urban project should concentrate upon subprojects that can be completed by one
administration within four years. Subprojects requiring a longer implementstion
should be jhased to allow sharing of the local political dividends of the
operation. The recent projects mentioned above (para. 44) have taken this lesson
into account.
46.   To reduce the opportunities for conflict, project design should be simple
and avoid dividing responsibilities between potentially competing institutions,
and reconcile implementation periods to the local electoral calendar.   Party
politics and key personal rivalries can hinder progress when opposing camps are
found in executing agencies that are supposed to be working together. Project
design should be simplified to reduce the number of points of potential conflict.
47.   Major political developments, such as the democratization of Brazil during
the 1980's, can reap havoc with a scheme designed for alternative institutional
arrangements. Since these changes are unpredictable, periodic reviews should be
anticipated to adapt the project to the changing circumstances.
48.   Long term institutional development of local agencies can only be achieved
if the agencies themselves are willing to make permanent improvements to their
management through technical assistance and training.  Project experience showed
that supplying ill-equipped agencies with sophisticated instrumentr, such as
computerized cadastres for municipalities, can be ineffective unless they are
willing and able to update and operate them. Continuous maintenance is necessary
as with any investment.
49.   Within the RMR, the effectiveness of municipal institutional development
is very varied, with income level an important but not exclusive determining
factor. One of the municipalities with the poorest population, Moreno, made some
of the best progress, while Olinda, one of the richest, made little advance.
Future urban development programs in Brazil must have the flexibility to respond
to the potential of each one.
50.   Project flow of funds needs to be kept simple to minimize bureaucratic (and
other political) delays, especially when different levels of government are
involved. Instead more emphasis should be placed upon ex-post monitoring (i.e.
auditing) rather than on ex-ante controls, in order to avoid financial losses
through funds lying idle, especially in an inflationary environment.
51.   During project preparation, it is important to keep all parties, whose
subsequent collaboration will be necessary, informed about the proposals being
discussed.



13
52.   Making  a  valuable  contribution  to  project  preparation  does  not
automatically qualify an agency for implementation responsibilities, as the case
of SUDENE demonstrated.
53.   In summary and with hindsight, the Recife Project's performance might have
been different with the following: (a) loan negotiption at the beginning of the
new administration in Pernambuco in 1983; (b) inclusion of all RMR municipalities
at the beginning of project; (c) simplified design with fewer subprojects
involving fewer agencies; (d) limitation of grant funding to a few selected
subprojects;   (e)   emphasis   upon   cost   recovery   through   disbursement
conditionalities; (f) annual reviews (involving RMR municipalities) of project
progress. Hindsight is essential in making these observations, for the gravity
of the events that shook the project could not have been fully appreciated at the
time of appraisal.
54.   Income and employment creation activities in a market economy, however
small, are, in the final analysis, commercial operations, and need to treated as
such with major responsibilities for operation held by the private sector.



14
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from Portuguese)
Note: As one of its final tasks prior to being dissolved, FIDEM prepared (with
the help of independent consultants; a substantial PCR (8 volumes available on
the Project File..  For brevity, only those key points which provide useful
additional information to project background, and those in which the Borrower's
perception differs from the Bank's view, are included.
A. Supplementary Information - Project Background
1.    The project reflected an evolution of urban policy which emerged with BNH
in 1964.    President  Geisel  promoted  a slow and gradual  transition  from
authoritarian rule, unable to institutionalize the military regime after the
"economic miracle" and facing increasing demands made by civil organizations.
The II National Development Plan (1974-1979) proposed an urban development
strategy for a more efficient distribution of urban dwellers and existing
resources, particularly awet- from the cities of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo,
through more dynamic economic development in the metropolitan regions of the
Northeast and the strengthening of middle size cities as nodes of growth.
2.    The National Council of Urban Development  (CNPU) was responsible for
centralized planning, and decentralized implementation took place at the
metropolitan levei by newly-created planning agencies. State government then was
delegated tutelage for economic growth and for demobilization and control of
political, economic, and social forces potentially disruptive of the
autthoritarian regime's goal of legitimacy. Bank concerns with poverty alleviation
and the modernization of development processes coincided in several respects with
this overall urban policy.
3.    In Recife, FIDEM was responsible for the implementation of national urban
policy at the metropolitan level since its founding in 1975. Initially the agency
enjoyed political support, technical competence to address issues of common
interest to the region's municipalities, and played an important role in
preparing and negotiating the Recife Project. Particularly from 1979, absolute
poverty indicators increased and economic recession had taken nold concomitantly
with pressures to address basic needs of shelter, sanitation, and public
transportation.   In an effort to secure additional resources,  the federal
government requested external funding (World Bank and IDB) for urban
interventions in Recife. Project preparation began in 1980 with the technical
team responsible for the Middle Size City Project in Campina Grande (1976-1979).
In 1981, Bank staff appraised both Recife and Jaboatao's development proposals.
B. Project Objectives and Description
4.    The  Project's  objectives  were  four-fold:         1)  construction  and
rehabilitation of dwellings,  urban infrastructure and public services;   2)
provision of metropolitan-scale infrastructure; 3) creation of new opportunities
for employment and income generation, and 4) strengthening of public agencies
responsible for planning, administration, and management of metropolitan
development.    The Project  sought  to benefit  750,000  people  (32; of  the
metropolitan population), to effect improvements on 4,300 hectares cf the
urbanized area of RMR, and to include the following components:



15
a)    Local  Infrastructures    interventions  in  low-income  neighborhoods  -
assurance of land tenure, drainage, road paving, outdoor steps on slopes,
retaining walls, water supply and sanitary sewerage, construction and
rehabilitation of dwellings and community facilities; investments in 56 low-
income settlements and other areas occupying 2,509 hectares in Recife and
Jaboatao; direct impacts on 356,000 people.
b)    Metropolitan Infrastructures   BR-101 Metropolitan Corridor with 12.8
kilometer extension, affecting 247,000 people in five municipalities;
metropolitan solid waste compnnent benefiting 2,500,000 people; upgrading -
landfill, drainage, land distribution, community facilities, construction of
16,500 dwellings with direct effects on 84,000 people situated on 484 hectares;
Curado Urban Center; Jaboatao Industrial Center creating and/or transferring
7,750 direct jobs.
c)    Income Creation (later, Productive Activities):  technical and financial
assistance to 6,400 micro enterprises affecting 25,700 persons (employed and to
be employed); establ.ishment of 25 service organizations- improvement and/or
creation of 20,000 occupations for self-employed workers; all interventions above
to affect 150,000 people in six municipalities.
d)    Institutional Development:  improvement of technical, administrative, and
financial efficiency of RMR municipal governments; health education as adjunct
to water supply, sanitary sewerage, and waste disposal components in low-income
areas; promotion of low-cost sanitation solutions; above to affect 113,000
people.
C. Project Design and Organization
5.    In retrospect, the institutional organization that exist was a bureaucratic
nightmare. At the federal level, MINTER coordinated the Project through CNDU
which, in turn, was represented by SUDENE with authority to approve final designs
related to implementation. Local coordination by the State of Pernambuco resided
with SEPLAN which delegated authority to FIDEM. The Municipalities of Recife and
Jaboatao were also co-responsible for adhering to the terms of the Project
Agreement. In all, project implementation was carried out by over 33 different
agencies.
D. Project Implementation
6.    First Phase (1982-1985:  During this learning period of how to manage an
integrated urban project Brazil suffered the effects of the 1980-83 economic
crisis and a reduction in BNH Project funds in 1983 and 1984, and a general lack
of counterpart funds.   The turbulent political situation in RMR led State
government to give priority to investment in the politically favorable interior
regions.  Weak Project performance was aggravated by changes in the national
coordination, but improved somewhat in 1985 when implementation agencies adjusted
to structural operations and when credit operations between BNH and State
government also normalized.
7.    Second Phase (1986-1987): While President Sarney's administration pledged
transition to democracy, the bureaucratic apparatus of the earlier regime
prevailed.   This period was notable for its experimental and unsuccessful
attempts to combat inflation, cutbacks in Project funds from the federal
government and from BNH. Once again the national coordination of the Project



16
changed in 1987, and progressive officials assumed the positions of mayor of
Recife and of State governorship.   Compared to previous years implementation
improved but the new politicei situation led to a general restructuring and
renegotiation of the Project which accelerated the execution of individual
components. Project redirection included: 1) improved compatibility of State
and municipal program priorities; 2) simplified and decentralized institutional
and  coordination  scheme;    3)  continued  concentration  of  Investments  in
infrastructure; and 4) reduction of Brazilian funds for Productive Activities
and Institutional Development components.
8.    Third Phase (1988-1990):  The Project became truly metropolitan in nature
with community participation and RMR municipal government involvement.   High
rates of inflation returned, federal transfers were reduced, and access to CEF
(previously the BNH) funds was restricted; nevertheless, the State of Pernambuco
contributed a greater portion of counterpart funds and the pace of construction
quickened. On the other hand, institutional problems persisted: FIDEM became
extinct due to State administrative reform and the national coordination changed
again in 1988, 1989, and in 1990. The Loan Agreement terminated on December 31,
1989, but the Bank agreed to continue disbursements until April 30, 1990.
E. Project Sustainability
9.    Existing Settlementst Surveys attest to continued positive effects of most
intervertions. Security of land tenure on the upgrading components has resulted
in home improvements, increased property values, residential stability, improved
bus service, and community mobilization to pressure for continued maintenance.
By contrast, renters have difficulty in remaining due to higher rents.  Poor
maintenance has led to other complaints: durability and conservation of civil
works, cracked retaining walls, water infiltration, broken pavement, and
unutilized micro-drainage. Some positive effects of micro-drainage are nullified
for lack of sanitary education. The health education and community development
components were not implemented, thus reducing their impact.
10.   New Settlements:  Overall this component is relatively successftl although
it did not reach the original target populations. Largely due to pressures to
accept indemnity payments, only 50% of residents were relocated. Currently, of
those who were relocated, it is estimated that only 25%-30% have remained in the
new settlement areas.   Initially, 80% of the new dwellings were enlarged or
rehabilitated but many families could not adapt to the limited space in new
surroundings.    However,  residents do not enjoy legal rights to occupation
because of institutional delays. Safety is a problem due to the population mix
from 20 different neighborhoods.    Play areas have been  reduced to build
additional dwellings. Provision of community facilities, school, market, and
play areas would contribute to creating viable neighborhoods.
11.   Experiments: Several initiatives were taken with mixed success and limited
replicability - new construction methods and materials for retaining walls,
circulation system integrated with storm drainage on slopes; in low-lying areas,
macro and micro drainage solutions; condominial system of sanitary sewerage; and
an insuccessful attempt to set up a non-conventional operation of privy pumping.
12.   Solid Waste:   Major investments included vehicle acquisition,  garage
construction, and alternative technologies for collection and transportation of
waste. Two sanitary landfills and two transfer stations are not fully completed



17
and were never operational.   The organizational  structure for solid waste
services is weak. Eleven municipalities have collaborated in the preparation of
a solid waste strategy plan, but only three implemented parts of the plan. Final
waste destinations are 17 scattered open lots without treatment. Mnintenance
costs of acquired vehicles also threaten sustainability.
13.   BR-100 Metropolitan Corridor:   After normal disruption of circulation
during construction and expropriation delays, this component promises positive
long-lasting effects. Circulation has much improved and the higher population
density also results in an intensification of economic and co=m-ercial activities.
New jobs and income creation will occur as the 38 industries of varying sizes
receive authorization for implantation by the local Igarassu goveinrment. On the
other hand, two to three accidents occur daily along the more populated road
stretches due to only partial completion of the signal and public lighting
systems.   Environmental concerns focus on possible detriments to tourist and
leisure activities in adjacent municipalities.
F. Productive Activities
14.   The component generated limited opportunities for sustainability; however,
the CUC and CIMJ interventions demonstrated the possibility of promoting the
development of economic activities in selected locations as well as the
feasibility of cost recovery by sale of urbanized lots or through leasing of
industrial modules. Historic restoration of churches and monuments was well done
and serves to increase awareness regarding the need for continued maintenance.
Promotion of tourism and support to the self-employed and to micro enterprises
depend largely on government commitment.
G. Institutional Development
15.   For  political  and  institutional  reasons  no  system  of metropolitan
administration was established.   During implementation there existed neither
executive management with the capacity to prevent or correct distortions nor
information and monitoring systems.   On the other hand,  the SIM component
produced a useful cartographic collection although the system is largely devoid
of social, economic and institutional information. Human resource training and
development and the establishment of SISPLAN, the State planning system, will
serve to modernize planning, programming and monitoring mechanisms.
H. Bank Performance
16.   Bank staff performance varied greatly over the nine-year period. After its
decisive role in project design and negotiation, during 1982-1985 supervision was
generally spotty focusing only on critical areas. After negotiation Bank staff
members pressed for economic feasibility studies with cost recovery strategies.
Actual completion of such studies, however, was not insisted upon or supported
by staff. From 1986 to 1990, staff contribution was minimal and supervision a
formality.   Staff substitutions were constant resulting in loss of Project
memory. Short visits and overloaded mission schedules did not promote intimate
understanding of local characteristics, nor efficacious relationships with the
local coordination team. Bank staff performance over the implementation period
was often hindered by dependence on World Bank authorities in Washington to make
decisions which led to excessive delays during Project implementation.



18
I. Borrower Performance
17.   With respect to goals and actual achievements, performance was mediocre,
although somewhat better in relation to financial planning and operations.
Earlier weakness contrasts with improvements after 1986.   SUDENE played an
important role during negotiations and as intermediary between the State and
federal authorities. But as regional coordinator, SUDENE caused excessive delays
in analyzing final designs, terms of reference for civil works and services, and
audit  records.   The  few but capable  team members  only  loosely monitored
implementation and disputed with FIDEM over jurisdiction and status.   FIDEM
performance varied but with time staff members matured and became prepared to
manage Project development. FIDEM coordination, however, suffered from its
inappropriate  juridical  and  institutional  structure  and from its ways of
interacting with executing agencies which resisted FIDEM as a rival.  FIDEM set
up no systematic monitoring process and failed to coordinate implementation while
staff concentrated on the Project's financial management. Throughout Project
development FIDEM remained distant from executing agencies and failed to take
measures to resolve questions of responsibility or to promote integration of
agencies through formation of a joint discussion and decision body.   Most
significantly, due to FIDEM's isolation, the Project was not perceived as an
initiative to resolve pressing RMR problems. Rather, the Project was viewed as
a source of non-reimbursable investment funds which were relatively accessible
except for the many formal requirements. There was also no incentive on cost
recovery because the State and municipalities did not hold themselves responsible
for loan repayment.
3. Project Relationship
18.   In addition to the comments above, relationships %mong several Project
agencies were often strained.   DiffeitAnces in bookkeeping,  delays in fund
disbursements, and discussion over cast recovery also created unpleasant
situations which were overcome as Projuct accomplishments became evident.
K. Consulting Services
19.   The Borrower's  report makes no sy' ematic Analysis and evaluation of
consulting services.
L. Project Documentation and Data
20.   PROCENGE, the firm hired to prepare the Borrower's report, encountered
serious difficulty in its preparation for lack of complete and consistent data
despite the general wealth of available Project documentation.
M. Lessons and Recommendations
1. Project coordination should be the role of a local governmental agency
with the juridical and institutional status to exercire this function.
2. Diverse interests should be represented in a joint, co-responsible
decision body from project design through Project completion.
3. Avoid posture of superiority of coordinating team by establishing a
philosophy and measures to assure cooperative and co-responsible
commitment to a common endeavor by all Project agencies.
4. Project design should schedule implementation during the same governmental
administrative term or adopt conditions for possible future revisions.



19
5. Establish   information   system  at  coordinating   level   to  monitor
implementation and to facilitate final critical analysis and evaluation of
Project results.
6. Lender and borrower should define common criteria for bookkeeping and
accounting of non-reimbursable counterpart funds.
7. Minimize the number of agencies and procedures for financial transfer
operations.   Project design could devise mechanisms to compensate for
financial losses due to bureaucratic delays in fund flows.
8. Establish a working capital fund to assure steady maintenance of Project
funds for execution; agree to only one unified reimbursement percentage
for each intervention category; adopt procedures basing fund disbursements
on completed civil works and services, and not on audit reports.
9. Require State and municipal governments to be co-responsible for payment
of principal and interest of Project loan.
10. Devise legal means to guarantee that the Federal Government fulfill its
contractual obligations relative to the regular disbursement of funds and
to credit operations.



20
PART IIl - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
1W[              Purpose           Yar       ro           Status Comments
1720-BR    Infrastructure, emp-   1979    Closed    $70 million loan effective Feb
loyment creation and         Dec 86     80.    Infrastructure  in-
institutional                           vestments  quickly  Im-
development invest-                      plemented followed by key
ments in medium-                         Institutional development In
sized cities In Brazil.                 some municipalities. Emp-
loyment creation components'
performance disappointing.
2193-BR    Engineering loan for   1982    Closed    $8.9 million loan effective Dec
preparation of follow-       June 85    82.  Good  progress  In
on  metropolitan                         Salvador  where  a
development projects                     metropolitan  project  (Ln
in  Fortaleza  and                      2681-BR) was prepared.
Salvador.                                Lack of state counterpart
funds hindered work In
Fortaleza where a follow-on
operation was not
implemented.
2343-BR    To assist municipalities   1983    Closed  $52.7 million loan effective
In State of Parand to        Dec 88      March 84. Good progress
Implement  local                        was made early on with
infrastructure                          physical works, although
Investments  and                        institutional,  especially
strengthen  their                       financial development of
administrations.                         municipalities only picked in
project's final years.



21
2623-BR    To improve lnstituonal  1986    Ongoing    $24.5 million loan effective
development of small                    Sep 86. Expected closing
to  medium-sized                        date Dec 92. First urban
municipalities In State                 project in Brazil with state as
of Santa Catarina,                      borrower. Unking finance for
through conditioning                    Infrastructure  Investments
financing   of                          with  demonstrated
infrastructure  upon                    improvements In municipal
administrative                          administration proved hard to
Improvements.                           start with, but Is taking hold.
2681-BR    T o  d e v e I o p   1986    Ongoing    $55 million loan effective May
metropolitan area of                    87. Expected closing date
Salvador  through                       Dec 94. follow-on project
investments  in                         from Ln2170-BR with greater
infrastructure  and                     emphasis upon financial viab-
urban services and                      llity. Early implementation
i n s t i t u t i o n a I               held up through lack of coun-
development.                            terpart funds. Greater state
responsibility, has improved
execution.
3100-BR    To  strengthen  the   1989    Ongoing    $100 million loan effective
m a n a g e m e n t                     Jan90. Expected closingdate
capabilities for urban                  Dec 94. Project is in early
development of the                      stage of establishing mech-
municipalities of the                   anisms for on-lending to
state of Parana.                        municipalities.
3129-BR    To  strengthen  the   1989    Ongoing    $100 million loan effective
m a n a g e m e n t                     Jan 90. Expectedclosingdate
capabilities for urban                  Dec 94. Project Is in early
development of the                      stage of establishing mech-
municipalities of the                   anisms for on-lending to
state of Rio Grande                     municipalities.
do Sul.



22
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item             Date Planned     Date Revised     Actual Date
- Identification            08/78                              08/78
- Preparation                05/79                             05/79
- Appraisal Mission          10/81                             10/81
- Loan Negotiations         04/82                              04/82
- Board Approval            06/82                              06/82
- Loan Signature            06/82                              06/82
- Loan Effectiveness        11/82                              11/82
- Loan Closing              12/88             12/89            12/89
- Loan Completion            06/88            06/90            06/89
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(See performance indicators in Table 6)
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------



23
4.   LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millions of US dollars)
Bank Fiscal Year:       1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990*
Appraisal                5.6  31.2  64.8  S,O.5  103.1 115.8 122.1
Actual                   2.7   7.5  14.1  26.0   40.9  76.7  84.3 108.0
Actual as 2 of
Appraisal              48.2  24.0  21.8  28.7. 39.7  66.2  69.0  88.5
Note: $1.8 million front end fee not included
* Data thru May 31, 1990 Statement of Loans
Date of Final Disbursement: May 2, 1990
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------
DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
130 -                B~~~~~~AR artd AC1MAL
120 -
io    . 
IGO 
s^o 
so 
80 
70 
60
30 -
20 -
20 
10
1983     1984     1985     19s6     1987     1985     1989      t990
Fscal Year
o  Appro1ma             +  Actual



If       1  24
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Pr_oject Cogst
(US$ million)
Appraisal                   RevlsedIJ                  Actual
Local Fnrlgn  TIQAL(%)   Local Foruign  TITAL(%)   Locai Formgn   TIAL(%o)
Upgrading          95.3  30.1     125.4 38.1%                 90.0  36.3%                  63.3  294%
Metropolitan
Infrasructure     128.6  40.6    169.2 48.6%                 119.9 48.4%                 102.3 474%
Income creaton     16.2  5.1       21.3  6.1%                  152  6.1%                   29.8  138%
Institutional
Development       24.3   7.7      31.9 9.2%Y                  22.8  9.2%                  202  9.4%
TOTAAL:        2642  83A       3AZ8  100.w                   24Z   M OMnD.             215BIQG,
i/ Amendment to Loan Agreement of April 1986.
B. ftlJL 5nanclng
(USS miNlion)
2aura                 AppralARl (%)        BawldAd I/           uaI   (%)
Federal no immant        t7s n    SEn%3       1Rt t           BLO  1212    6L9S
IBRO                     123.9    35.8%       123.9    60.0%    101.6    48.3%
Budget                   61.1    14.7%         372      15.0%    20.2      9.6%
£ata _gamm2 1=2D                  S4A1         02A      2L.2     ZQA      322
State Loans              88.7    25.5%         56.5    22.8%
FUNDERM (Budget          31.4      9.0%        6.1      2.4%
Muneipal Gnvammantrn    52.I Z   121          242       .1      20i  9 SM
Municipal BNH Loans      28.3      8.2%        13A      7.5%
Municipal Budgets        24.4      7.0%        6.7      2.3%
TOTAL                34L   R ng.m             24LS      1           218.     10D.
1/ Amendment to Loan Agreement of April 1988.



25
8. PROJECT RESULTS
A. 
Indicators                          Appralsal Esdmate                    Estimated at Closing Date
UPGRADING
Award of land ownership t!,o         25,000 low Income beneficiaries     9,973 low income beneflciaries
Number of housing units built or    32.144 unib                          11.433 units
Improved
Paving and Micro-drainage            989227 square meters                714,301 square meters
Stairways                            6,299 inear meers                   22.983 lnear meters
Dredging drainage canals             20. 76 0near meters                 12,555 llnear meters
Number of new direct connectons     33.794 connections                   13.428 connecdtons
to water supply
Septic tanks                         16,290 new septic tanks             950 new septic tanks
M E T R O P O L I TA N
INFRASTRUCTURE
New major urban roads                12. Wlometers                       13.7 klometers
New urban feeder roads               22.9 Wilometers                     11.0 kilometers
Percentage collected of total sold   87%                                 80%
waste produced In metopolltan
region of Recife
INCOME CREATION
Number of micro-enterprise start-    2.344 miro-entprse                  1B micro-enterprises
ups
Number of permanent jobs glrecdy     8.740 jobs                          170 jobs
created  through  productive
infrastructure program
Number of permanent jobs directy     28.591 jobs                         24.772 jobs
created or Improved (?) through
micro-enterprise support program
Provislon of technical assistance to  8,420 lIrms                        6.69 firms
micro-enterprses
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Municipal legislation updates        not specified                       9 munIcipalIties
Cadastre expansin                    not specified                       28 expansion programs



26
Metropolitan mapping and database   not specified                       22,687 enquirIes
erquiries
Community participation             not specifed                        65  community  associations
benefltting from project.
B. £eam1llmpae
(The SAR reports estimated internal rates of retum for 18 different components, ranging trom 16% to 73%. Since most of
these components were modified durdng Implementation, a direct comparlson of rates of return was not possible. The overall
economic Impact of the project, however, was signlficant, although iess than hoped for, owing to the slowing down of the
Brazillan economy as the project was being executed.)
C. lnanoial Impad
(Aithough some very small components did have a direct financial Impact, for the large maJority, the financial rate of return
of the project Investments was not relevant.)



27
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement         Subject                                   Comments
Sec:tion
3.01 (b)               Federal govemment to ensure timely        Due to Brazil's fiscal crisis after 1982, arely
provision of funds and other resources.  was there compliance with this covenrnt
throughout Implementation with the result
that only US$202 miflion was provided
Instead of the US$51.1 million intended.
3.02 (a)               Federal govemment to ensure CEBRAE and    There was formal compliance, but this was
SUDEPE execute their components.         not a sufficient condition to ensure the
success of the components.
3.04                   Federal govemment annual review of prolect  Towards the end of the project, wvtt the
In April each year of previous twelve months  demise of federal activities In the sector, this
and financial plan for ensuing twelve    responsibility wasdelegated moreand more
months.                                  to the state authorities.
3.05                   Federal govemment to ensure avallability of  Credit was made available, but there wwe
line of credit for micro-enterprises.    few takers.
4.02 (a)               Federal govemment to ensure maintenance   Compliance.
of separate project accounts and that they
be audited by independent audltors
acceptable to Bank.
4.02 (b)               Federal govemment to fumish fInancial     Early on there were many delays, but
statements and auditors report.          compliance improved with tme.
4.03 (a)               Audit of Special Account.                 Compliance.
4.03 (b)               Provision of Statements of Expenditure.   Compliance.
5.01 (a)               Priority of public assets as security for Bank  Compliance.
loan.
SCHEDULE 1 -3          Municipal cost recovery of solid waste    Compliance only during dosing years of
(c)                    service.                                  project.
SCHEDULE 2- end        TThe Project Is expected to be completed by  Completion extended to December 31,
June 30, 1988                             1989.
SCHEDULE4-A.1.         Contracts for vehicles and equipment for
solid waste to be procured through IC8.
SCHEDULE4-1B.1         Other contracts (except below) to be      Compliance, except In one instance where
awarded on basis of LCB.                 project had to refund US$7.9 mIllion in 1989
through mis-procurement of CEF financed
contracts.
SCHEDULE4- B12         Minor civii works, with prior Bank agreement,  Compliance.
through force account.
SCHEDUIE 4 -C.1-       Detailed provisions for preference for    Compliance.
4                      domestic manufacturers.



28
SCHUE 4 -0.1-          Detalled  conditons  and  procedures      Compilance (except for item SCHEDULE 4 -
4                      regarding bidding documents.              B.1 above).
Project Agreement
Secton
2.01 (c)               Prompt provision by funds and other       This was always the major problem
resources by all partes.                 throughout Implementation.
2.01 (d)               Prompt provision of funds for operation and  Compliance vared between components.
maintenance of project facilidtes.
2.02                   Selection of consultants in accordance wlth  Comp'iance.
Bank guidelines.
2.08                   Annual review of project progress In April  Compliancb.
each year and preparatlon of annual
financial plan.
2.08                   FIDEM to prepare annual report by March   Compliance only towards end of project.
31 each year on adequacy of expenditures
for operafton and maintenance of project
fadllties.
2.10 (a)               FIDEM to operate and maintain metro.      Non-compliance following abandonment of
region solid waste system for 2 years.   metropolitan-wide approach to solid waste
In 1985.
2.10 (b)               FIDEM to prepare proposal for metro. region  Non-compliance following abandonment of
solid waste company.                      mL opolitan-wide approach to solid waste
In 1985.
2.12 (a)               State and Recife to ensure installadon of  Compliance.
electricity and telephone networks In
Curado, Capibadbe and Jaboata o lndustrial
Park.
2.15 (a)               FIDEM  to make project documentation      Compliance.
readily available to the Bank.
2.15 (b)               Records to be kept and made available for  Compliance.
Bank InspecRon.
2.15 (d)               Government PCR to be presented within six  Compliance.
months of closing date.
2.19 (b)               Bank to be promptly informed of conditons  Compliance; there was always a ftrank
that might Interfere wifh progress of project.  exchange of views with Bank, notably about
funding and political problems affecting the
project.
4.01 (a)               Maintenance  of consolidated  project     Compliance although accounts allowing for
accounL                                  inflaton were only prepared In final year of
project.
4.02 0b)               Retenton of records for one year after    NYD.
ciosing date.
4.03 (b)               Pernambuco State to ensure COHAB-PE       Not fully.
current assets:current liability rato to be not
ess than 1.5:1.
4.03 (c)               Pernambuco State toestablish coordinaton  This was established eady In this project
system  to ensure timely provision of     only to be dismantied with the demise of
Infrastructure.                           FIDEM.



2.9
4.03 (d)                  Pernambuco State to ensure COHAB-PE             Compliance.
Improve mortgage payments and that
personnel and general administratve
expenses do not exceed 2% of total assets
of COHAS-PE.
_ ~   ~   - -- - -   -                                        -   -., _-   -__ _-__--__ _-__-__-__ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __



30
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. I-tatU npUts
(Staff weeks)
Stage of Project Bank Fiscal Year:
Cycle                                                lam     w198t 1984    SaS   iM  am    I
Through
Appraisal              45.8   28.4
Appraisal through
Board Approval                 72.6
Board Approval through
Loan Effectiveness     --
Supervision                           27.0   23.8   9.6    4.0    0.4    1.2    6.6    1.8
Comppetlon     (included In Supervision above)
TOTAL                  45.8   101.0  27.0   23.8   9.6    4.0    OA          1.2    6.6    1.8



31
B. Mlsslana
Stage of Project    Mtbe1 r    No of    Days    Specialization  Performance  Typesd   Comments
Cycle                             Pers    In fild    Repmse/   raing stabis2/  Pdbnm
ons                                            3/
Through Appraisal    09/78         3        23                                              Identification
05/79        3         17                                             Preparation I
04/80        4         13                                             Preparaton II
10/80        3         5        Ec, Pi, FA                            Preparation IlIl
Appraisal through    10/81         10       23        Ec. Ar. FA, PI,                       Appraisal
Board Presentatlon
Board  approval    11/82           2         5        PI, FA        2             P         Post-Appraisal
through Loan
Effectiveness
Supervision          02/83         2         3        PI, FA        na            na        (partla sup)
03/83         1        2        Pi            na            na        (partial sup)
06/83        3         10       Pi, FA        2             F
12/83        3         8        Pi, FA, Eng   2             M
05/84        4         6        Pi. FA, Eng,  2             F
ME, Ec
10/84        4         a        Pi, Ec, Eng    2            F
12/84        1         4        FA            na            na        (partal sup)
04/85        2         4        Pi            2             F
03/86        2         9        Pi            2             F
10/86        1         3        ?
05187         1        2        Pi            2             M
11/87        2         3        PI. FA        1             F         New Bank team
07/88         1        2        Ec            1             F
06/89         2        a        Ec, FA        2             F.M
02/90        3         7        Pi, Ec, FA    1             F         PCR
.I Ec = Economist; Ar = Architect; FA = Financial Analyst; PI = Urban Planner, ME = Monitoring and Evaluation Speciallst.
2/ 1 = minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems
31 (rype of Problem) F = financial; M = managerial; T = technical; P = politcal.
=======2======= ===========aw==== = =====-========_=3===



