Report No. 16736
Brazil
Impact Evaluation Report
Learning from Best Practice in Five Urban Projects
Medium-Sized Cities (Loan 1 720-13R)
Recife Metropolitanr Region (Loan- 21 70-BR)
Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs for Fortaleza/Salvador (L-oan 21 93-BR)
Parana Market Towns Improvement (Loani 2313-BR)
Northeast Urban Floodl Reconistruction (Loan 2645-BR)
June 17, 1997
Operations Evaluation [)epartrnent
Document of the World Bank



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit = Real (R$)
US$1.00 = R$1.07
R$1.07 = US$0.93
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BNH           National Housing Bank (Banco Nacional de Habita,cao)
CBO           Community Based Organization
CNDU          Nafional Urban Development Council (Conselho Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Urbano)
CNPU          National Committee for Urban Policy and Metropolitan Regions
(Commisao Nacional de Politica Urbana e Regf6es Urbanas)
ED            Executive Director (World Bank)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
ID           Institutional Development
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IER           Impact Evaluation Report
IERR         Internal Economic Rate of Retum
IPPLAN-JF    Juiz de Fora (Municipal) Planning and Research Institute (Instituto de
Pesquisa e Planejamento)
IPLANAT       Natal (Municipal) Urban Planning Institute (Instituto de Planejamento
Urbano de Natal)
IPTU         (Municipal) Urban Property Tax
LAC           Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (World Bank)
MDU           Ministry of Urban Development (Minist6rio de Desenvolvimento Urbano)
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PAR           Performance Audit Report
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SEAIN         Secretariat of International Affairs (Secretaria de Assuntos
/ntemacionais) of Ministry of Planning
SUDENE        Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (Superintendencia
do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste)
UPP          (Bank) Urban Policy Paper
Director General, Operations Evaluation          Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department       Roger Slade for Elizabeth McAllister
Divison Chief                             :      Yves Albouy
Task Manager                               :     Alain Barbu



The World Bank
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S A
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluaton
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Brazil Impact Evaluation Report
Learning from Best Practice in Five Urban Projects:
Medium-Sized Cities Project (Loan 1720-BR)
Recife Metropolitan Region Project (Loan 2170-BR)
Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs for
Fortaleza and Salvador (Loan 2193-BR)
Parana Market Towns Improvement Project (Loan 2343-BR)
Northeast Urban Flood Reconstruction Project (Loan 2645-BR)
Attached is the Impact Evaluation Report (IER) prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) on the above mentioned urban development projects implemented in Brazil during
1979-1989. The projects had varied designs and covered all the major urbanized regions of the country.
They all shared, however, common aims of improving the efficiency and equity of urban service
provision. The aim of the impact evaluation study was to identify and assess sustained impacts of these
projects, more than five years after their completion, sufficient time for sustainable benefits to be
manifest. The study focused upon three areas of impacts: (i) living conditions for the urban poor; (ii)
decentralizing urban service provision; and (iii) participatory development with beneficiary
communities.
The study concludes that the projects helped place municipalities at the forefront of urban
service provision and demonstrated that well designed physical investments can lead to sustained
improvement in urban living conditions for low-income residents. Important side effects were
strengthened community-based organizations which enabled local residents-especially women-to
learn the rules of urban service provision in Brazil.
Among the study's recommendations: (i) continue project efforts of this kind to improve the
living conditions of the poor; (ii) disseminate best practice experiences of successful project cities; (iii)
encourage institutional reform at the municipal level; (iv) use robust materials for physical solutions
where maintenance is typically wanting; (v) support urban policy and research institutes; (vi) ensure
participatory assessment is always part of project evaluation; and (vii) incorporate base-line data and
monitoring indicators into the design of new projects to facilitate subsequent monitoring and evaluation.
Attachment                                     C d        1      4






CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................v
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................                                                               vii
1. MAIN CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................1
Conclusions ............................................1
Recommendations ............................................3
2. STUDY OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ............                                            ...............................7
Objectives and Scope of the Study ............................................7
Impact Domains, Indicators and Evaluation  Hypotheses .....................................8
Focus upon Best Practice ...........................................                                                  10
Data Collection Methods ...........................................                                                   11
Beneficiary Participation  in Evaluation ...........................................                                  11
3. THE PROJECTS AND THEIR SETTING ..........................................                                                15
Poverty Focus of Early Projects (1972-1983) ...........................................                                15
Executive Directors' Voice ...........................................                                                16
Efficiency Focus of Formal Strategy (1983-87) ...........................................                              16
Shift to Decentralization  (1988-92) ...........................................                                      17
Results of Completed Urban Projects ...........................................                                       18
On-going  Sector Operations and Priorities ...........................................                                20
4. IMPACTS ON LIVING CONDITIONS ..........................................                                                  21
Framework of Evaluation ...........................................                                                   21
Beneficiaries' Perspective ...........................................                                                21
Infrastructure and Services: Expert Assessment ...........................................     24
Housing Improvements ...........................................                                                       28
Local Economic Development ...........................................                                                 30
Social Development ...........................................                                                        31
This report was prepared by Mrs. Alcira Kreimer (Task Manager) and Mr. Roy
Gilbert (Consultant). Specific contributions were made by Claudio Volonte,
Paulo de Goes and Sonia Rocha (Consultants). Ms. Stacy Ward and Mr. Arthur
Anger provided administrative assistance.
i



5. DECENTRALIZING URBAN SERVICE PROVISION .......................................... 35
Framework of Evaluation ...........................................                                                            35
Helping  Municipalities Develop  a  Project Culture ...........................................     36
Urban Policy Making at the Local Level ...........................................                                             39
Enabling a Bigger Municipal Role ...........................................                                                    40
Decentralization as a Factor of Performance ...........................................                                         41
6. POOR RESIDENTS LEARN THE RULES OF THE GAME ................................ 45
Framework of Evaluation ...........................................                                                             45
Strengthening Community Based Organizations ...........................................  46
Contribution of Women ...........................................                                                               48
Leaming  the  Rules of Urban  Service  Provision  ...........................................     48
Holding Local Govemment Accountable ...........................................                                                 50
BIBLIOGRAPHY ...........................................                                                                              53
ANNEX I -Tables ..................................                                                                                     57
ANNEX 2 - Comments by the Borrower ..................................                                                                 83
MAPS - IBRD 28458 through IBRD 28465
ii



LIST OF TABLES
Main text:
2.1 - Impact Domains, Indicators and Hypotheses ..............................................9
2.2 - Indicators of Living Conditions in Case Study Cities 1980-91 .................... 13
3.1 - Project Summaries ................................................                                                18
4.1 - Beneficiaries' Perspective on  their Living  Conditions ................................. 22
4.2 - Infrastructure Impact: Expert Assessment ................................................ 25
4.3 - Environmental Conditions: Expert Assessment ......................................... 27
4.4 - Housing  Improvements ................................................ 29
4.5 - Impact upon  Economic Development ................................................                                 31
4.6 - Impact upon  Social Conditions ................................................                                   33
5.1 - Indicators of a Municipal Project Culture ................................................  37
5.2 - Indicators of Project Ownership  by Municipalities ...................................... 42
6.1 - Indicators of Participation: Community Perspective ................................... 52
Annexes
A. I -  Brazil 1975-96: Benchmark  Urban  Sector Events .......................                             ............. 57
A.2 - Brazil 1975-96: Government Policy relating to the Urban
Sector ................................................                                                                 61
A.43 - Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-lending Activities relating to the
Urban Sector ................................................                                                           65
A.4 - Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations relating to the
Urban Sector ................................................                                                            73
iii






PREFACE
This Impact Evaluation Report (IER) presents findings of a study designed to
identify and assess lasting impacts of five urban development projects financed
by the Bank in Brazil during 1979-1989. 1 This was when both government policy
and Bank non-lending activities in the sector underwent major transformatiorns.
OED's chose Brazil for this pioneering study, as the country with the Bank's
largest and most varied urban lending and non-lending program in the Region.
Beyond the projects themselves, the IER looks at sector issues that are topical
today in Brazil, such as the decentralization of urban service provision, for
instance.
All five urban projects evaluated here were completed at least seven years ago,
sufficient time for sustainable benefits to be manifest. The projects had varied
designs and covered all the major urbanized regions of the country. They all
shared, however, common aims of improving the efficiency and equity of urban
service provision for lower income urban populations. In order to focus on
lessons of successful experiences, the impact evaluation study looks closely at
best practice cases among the cities that participated in the projects. OED
launched the study in May 1995 and benefited from valuable and practical
support of SEAIN in Brasilia throughout. Three missions visited eleven cities
throughout Brazil between October 1995 and July 1996. Responses among
stakeholders in these cities-where the project experiences are firmly ingrained
in the collective memory-far exceeded our best expectations. The team
appreciates the enthusiastic participation of all who helped in this work.
Two features of the study methodology are worthy of note. First, it used case
studies of "best practice" project cities to extract lessons from experiences on
the ground that can be applied elsewhere.  Cities that improved their
infrastructure and housing over the project period were chosen for evaluation.
Second, the IER was a participatory exercise: it relied upon inputs from final
project beneficiaries themselves. The evaluation team met with more than one
hundred beneficiaries in group discussions held in project areas of each of the
cities visited. The enthusiastic participation of stakeholders in the exercise far
exceeded the study team's expectations.
To discuss the preliminary findings of the study with Brazilian officials and sector
experts, a workshop was held in Brasilia in April 1997. Workshop discussions
benefited from the active participation of some forty sector experts from all
regions of Brazil. Important conclusions from those discussions are incorporated
The five IES projects are: (1) Medium-Sized Cities (Ln1720); (2) Recife Metropolitan Region (Ln 2170); (3)
Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs for Fortaleza/Salvador (Ln 2193); (4) Parana Market
Towns Improvement (Ln 2343); and (5) Northeast Urban Flood Reconstruction (Ln 2645).
v



into the text of this IER. OED wishes to thank workshop participants for their
valuable contributions. Special acknowledgments go to SEAIN for organizing the
event as well as collaborating enthusiastically with this study since its inception.
vi



Evaluation Summary
MAIN CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1. The projects helped place municipalities at the forefront of urban service
provision, and demonstrated that well designed physical interventions can lead
to sustained improvement in living conditions for low income residents. Future
efforts at providing urban services in Brazil should focus upon replicating
demonstrated successes of best practice project municipalities.
2. The report's key recommendations are:
*  Continue efforts to improve living conditions of the urban poor through the
kinds of project interventions evaluated by the study, a point that was
strongly endorsed by participants at the Brasilia impact evaluation workshop.
*  Disseminate best practice experiences of cities that have excelled in
improving urban service provision through learned articles, the mass media,
the Internet, and material produced by urban institutes and professional
associations.
e  Encourage institutional reform at the municipal level. Through the projects,
municipalities demonstrated that they could manage urban service provision
and local residents increasingly expect municipalities to do so.
e  Urban improvements should apply robust and comprehensive physical
solutions that can best withstand the neglect of maintenance to which they
are likely to be subject.
*  Support urban policy and research institutes-the study found that they
helped to provide continuity and innovate in service provision at the municipal
level.
*  Participatory assessment-especially involving women-should always be
part of project evaluation. Final project beneficiaries not only have a voice to
be heard, but are often the principal store of information about a project's
history.
*  Base-line data and performance indicators should be incorporated into the
design of all new projects to facilitate effective performance monitoring. This
recommendation was unanimously endorsed by the Brasilia workshop.
vi!



STUDY OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
3. This study seeks to leam how best practice project municipalities succeeded
in improving living conditions of the poor, and from these cases, to make
practical recommendations for policy makers in the sector. The evaluation
focuses upon a few key impact domains, notably living conditions,
decentralization and beneficiaries' voice in improvements. Data collection from
both secondary sources and during missions to eleven cities throughout Brazil
enabled the study team to test hypotheses of project impact within each of these
domains. Direct participation of final beneficiaries in the evaluation gave
important insights into project performance.
4. The study focused upon three impact domains: (i) living conditions of the
urban poor, (ii) decentralizing urban service provision; and (iii) users' voice and
leaming about urban service provision. For each domain, the evaluation team
identified performance indicators and formulated evaluation hypotheses for
testing during field visits to eleven cities throughout the country. These field visits
including key informant interviews, site inspections and most importantly, group
interviews with beneficiaries in the project areas.
5. The evaluation looked at best practice cases at the municipal level, in the
search for examples of excellence that might be replicated elsewhere. Best
practice project cities were those that improved their urban services most
between 1980 and 1991, according to census data.
THE PROJECTS AND THEIR SETTING
6. All five projects were prepared without the benefit of country sector work.
Policy dialogue in Brazil-with early emphasis upon poverty alleviation through
priority investments in the poorer regions of the country-evolved only as part of
project preparation itself. The federal National Council for Urban Development
(CNDU)-responsible for projects-was the main interlocutor of the Bank during
1979-85. In approving these early projects, Bank Executive Directors
emphasized efficiency goals later endorsed by Bank sector papers on Brazil from
1983 onwards.
7. Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) and Performance Audit Reports
(PARs) considered all but one of the operations satisfactory, ratings endorsed by
this study. Although varied in scope, all projects aimed to both improve living
conditions of the urban poor and to help institutional development. IER findings
focus upon these two aspects and from the lessons learned, the study
recommends key actions to help improve urban service provision across many
municipalities throughout Brazil.
8. Decentralization of service responsibilities toward municipal government was
the strategic setting for the projects. The federal government had been
responsible for sector policy when the projects were prepared, but fiscal
constraints forced a federal withdrawal. After some short-lived efforts to retain an
viii



urban sector responsibility during 1985-88 when Brazil briefly had a Ministry of
Urban Development, the 1988 Constitution gave municipal government primary
responsibility-and resources-for managing urban development.
9. Despite a cutback of Bank lending to the sector, three ongoing Bank financed
projects continue to pursue the aims of efficient urban service provision at the
municipal level. At the same time, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
has substantially increased its own lending to Brazil in this sector.
IMPACTS ON LIVING CONDITIONS
10. As intended, the projects improved the living conditions of the urban poor,
especially through better access to their areas and reduced flooding risks for
local residents. In many improved areas, buses and service vehicles were able
to enter the neighborhood for the first time. Areas that had been prone to
flooding before the projects reported no major problems since the completion of
project works.
11. Typical lack of maintenance meant that infrastructure solutions using more
robust materials had more sustainable impacts. Low-cost sewerage solutions
often failed to operate through blockages and ruptures, while street paving of
cobblestones broke under heavy loads of buses and garbage trucks. Project
beneficiaries and expert observers had strikingly similar viewpoints on these
issues, especially about the poor maintenance of infrastructure in these areas.
12. Impacts upon housing conditions were significant. While there had been little
enlargement of housing units after the projects, better quality materials were
used and property values increased. Impacts upon the local economy were
modest with some additional local commerce following the projects. More
important, perhaps, was that better accessibility allowed residents to commute to
jobs elsewhere, thanks to the projects. Social impacts were stronger, especially
in strengthening community life within these neighborhoods.
DECENTRALIZING URBAN SERVICE PROVISION
13. Thanks to the projects, municipalities strengthened their own management of
project preparation, evaluation and procurement. Many introduced economic
evaluation of proposed investments for the first time. Most cities set up special
procurement units and now manage most of their bidding and contracting work
in-house. They also simplified the regulatory framework for project approvals. In
developing the basis of a "project culture" in this way, municipalities seized the
opportunity to play a bigger role in decentralized urban service provision as the
federal govemment withdrew from the sector. Still more has to be done to
consolidate this new project culture, however, so that municipalities can give
more attention to project maintenance which remains deficient in most cities to
this day.
ix



14. There were only modest impacts upon urban policy formulation at the local
level, which still today has to fill the gap left by federal retrenchment. Some cities
nevertheless established urban planning and research institutes, using project
personnel to staff them. These institutes have been responsible for important
policy innovations and updating master planning efforts. Most cities adopted a
more rigorous policy stance on cost recovery policy.
15. Municipalities developed strong ownership of projects that were originally the
products of federal government agencies. This decentralization to municipalities
after the reduction of federal activities in the sector augurs well for the long-term
sustainability of urban improvements in Brazil. Municipalities were willing to take
on greater management responsibilities. Local ownership went deep enough in
some cases to ensure smooth transfers of the projects between adversaries at
times of political transition at the municipal level. Transitions at the municipal
level occurred three times during project implementation.
POOR RESIDENTS LEARN THE RULES OF THE GAME
16. The projects had important side effects in strengthening community-based
organizations (CBOs), thereby enabling residents to learn about urban service
provision. As convenient interlocutors for local govemment and useful monitors
of project progress on behalf of residents, CBOs were empowered through the
project actions. This effect was felt strongest in medium-sized cities.
Metropolitan administration is inevitably complex and the physical remoteness of
project sites from city hall undermines effective CBO: local govemment
communication. CBOs in small towns did not flourish, but for opposite reasons.
Small town residents reckon that they can approach local officials directly,
making community level intermediation unnecessary.
17. Women played an important role in community strengthening. They were
among the most active participants in group discussions with the study's
evaluation team and the most knowledgeable about urban improvements in their
areas. Men present at these meetings were generally more reticent, and were
uneasy about the constant questioning that community participation involves.
18. Residents learned a lot about urban service provision through the activities of
their CBOs. They learned about who was responsible for service provision and
what the roles and relationships of key parties were. None of the local
communities visited knew about the projects during their planning phase, so that
learning took place during project implementation. City councilors (vereadores)
played a big participatory role at that time.
19. Residents' newly acquired knowledge pointed to municipal government as
being ultimately responsible for urban service provision. In this way, the projects
indirectly encouraged residents to hold municipalities accountable for these
services. The project experience thus gave little incentive for self-help efforts by
communities themselves. Nevertheless, revitalized community participation in
x



direct partnership with local government should enhance future project
performance and sustainability, thanks to more stakeholder control and
commitment.
xi






1. Main Conclusions and Recommendations
The projects helped place municipalities at the forefront of urban
service provision, and demonstrated that well designed physical
interventions can lead to sustained improvement in living conditions
for low income residents. Future efforts at providing urban services
in Brazil should focus upon replicating demonstrated successes of
best practice project municipalities.
CONCLUSIONS
1.1    Befter living conditions for the poor: Project documentation estimates
that together the five operations improved living conditions for some 2.0 million
urban poor in 464 municipalities throughout the country. Better paving allowed
improved access to project areas and resulted in sustained improvements in the
eyes of both beneficiaries and also sector experts. Street paving also reduced
atmospheric dust. Becoming more desirable residential areas, property values in
improved neighborhoods increased substantially. [Chapter 4]
1.2   Reduction  of urban  flood  risks: Proper drainage  eliminated
accumulation of polluted water in ditches, a serious health hazard for children in
particular before the projects. Prevention works-through the Northeast Flood
Project especially-helped diminish the risk of flood waters invading homes and
property. Properly working drainage in fact reduced the incidence of flooding in
improved neighborhoods.
1.3   Robust materials and sustained impacts: Only physically robust
infrastructure can survive the neglect of maintenance typically faced by improved
areas and other poorer neighborhoods of Brazilian cities. Lack of maintenance
shortens the useful life of infrastructure using low cost technologies. Thus, in the
long run, low cost technologies and lower quality construction materials may not
lead to the sustained improvements sought. Low-cost sewerage applied to basic
sanitation in a number of project cities, for instance, suffers serious operational
failures-particularly blockages-after five or more years. Street pavement using
Irregular cobblestones, although less costly at the outset, soon breaks up when
regularly used by heavy vehicles such as buses and garbage trucks. [Chapter 4]
1.4   Efficiency, an increasing priority: The Bank's approach to urban
development in Brazil since 1972 has progressively given more importance to
efficiency over poverty reduction goals. Urban projects-such as the ones
reviewed by this study-were left adrift from a strategic context. Initially inspired
by equity concerns of reducing poverty, sector work focused upon urban poverty
alleviation, recommending affordable urban services and housing. Following the
intemational debt crisis of 1982 and the weakening of the Brazilian national
economy, though, Bank sector strategy embraced efficiency goals more
1



explicitly. It called for direct cost recovery and allocation efficiency, regardless of
project beneficiaries' income levels. At the same time, fiscal constraints led to
federal govemment retrenchment from the urban sector. This resulted in an
unplanned but de facto decentralization of responsibilities to municipal
govemments. [Chapter 3]
1.5   Project culture within municipalities: As intended, the projects
succeeded in strengthening management systems and procedures within local
govemment. Local officials acquired greater skills in project preparation,
appraisal and evaluation. New units for the procurement of goods and works
were established within a more project-friendly regulatory environment at the
municipal level. Able project teams were created in cities that were able to
replicate lessons learned in good management practice. One important caveat:
this new culture rarely extended to project maintenance, which still remains
inadequate in most cases. [Chapter 4]
1.6   Decentralized urban service provision: Through the project culture
impact, the projects unintentionally allowed municipalities to play a bigger role in
decentralized urban service provision as the federal govemment withdrew from
this function. Furthermore, the projects firmly anchored responsibilities for urban
service provision to municipalities. They demonstrated that local govemments
could make sustainable improvements in chosen areas given adequate
resources. [Chapter 5]
1.7   Urban planning and research institutes: Local urban planning and
research institutes were important contributors to best practice cities and to the
continuity of urban policies and investments. Project management teams
ihem~elves form the nucleus of entities created in the mid-1980s at the
munid pal level as project activities themselves neared completion. Municipal
urbanlplanning and research institutes of these kinds are still in full operation
today in the cities of Juiz de Fora and Natal. [Chapter 5]
1.8   Revitalized community organizations: Monitoring project interventions
gave a new importance to community-based organizations (CBOs) in the eyes of
local residents. Local govemments treated CBOs as useful interlocutors during
project implementation. Prior to the projects, most low-income areas already had
some form, albeit weak, of community organization. Residents-especially
women-see that CBOs can help ensure improvements are made in accordance
with their own interests. This effect is most strongly felt in medium-sized cities. In
larger metropolitan centers, residents have less confidence in successful CBO
intermediation with remote and complex local govemments. Residents of small
cities, who have easy direct access to local officials as needed, feel community
level intermediation to be unnecessary. [Chapter 6]
1.9   Communities learn rules of the game: Through project interventions-
which amounted to an on-the-job civic education program for beneficiaries-low-
income residents leamed about procedures and responsibilities for urban service
provision. Residents also held local govemment more and more accountable for
these services. Project implementation enabled residents to know, for instance,
2



who was responsible for which urban services and where to lobby for their
interests. This was no mean feat, given the complexities of three tiers and many
overlapping responsibilities in Brazil's federal system of government. Residents
show little interest in self-help schemes for urban services of the kind that are
widely used in the urban kampungs of cities in Indonesia. Unlike their
counterparts in Indonesia, Brazilian residents feel that such schemes allow local
governments to shirk their own official responsibilities for urban service provision.
[Chapter 6]
1.10 Best practice cities as case studies: For their outstanding
performance, best practice cities provide good case studies, whose evaluation
can help unveil some of the secrets of success. In the state of Parana, for
instance, best practice municipalities Almirante Tamandare and Colorado
reduced their basic sanitation deficits by 41.8 and 50.5 percentage points
respectively over the 1980-91 period. The average for Parana as a whole was
only 3.9. In the Northeast region of the country, the best practice project city of
Propria reduced its housing deficit by 14.1 percentage points during the 1980-91
period, while the average for other cities in the state of Sergipe was only 8.2
percentage points. Similarly, Aracaju reduced its basic sanitation deficit by 22.2
percentage points over the same period, against an average of 5.7 for other
cities in the state. [Chapters 2 and 4]
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.11   Continue efforts to improve living conditions of the urban poor: In
view of the satisfactory long-term physical impacts of the projects (details
Chapter 4), local governments especially should try to continue to find ways of
replicating these experiences. Of all IER conclusions and recommendations, this
one enjoyed the greatest consensus among participants of the Brasilia
workshop. To meet new demands-especially in Brazil's poorer Northeast region
where urban service deficits are most pronounced-requires stronger fiscal effort
by municipalities and creative solutions for the participation of the private sector
in these activities. According to workshop participants, Brazil today needs to
clarify more precisely the role of urban policy in poverty alleviation.
1.12  Disseminate bestpractice experiences: This could be through learned
articles, feature stories in the mass media, on-line databases on the Intemet and
material produced by urban institutes and professional organizations. Better
knowledge of a municipality's administrative efficiency, financial performance
and results on the ground that would help, among other things, assessments of
the solidity and creditworthiness of individual municipalities, as future borrowers
in financial markets. Wide dissemination of these results-formalized through
prize giving for outstanding achievements-can encourage competition between
municipalities. Knowledge of these success stories is raw material for reforming
weaker municipalities and helping them emulate their more successful peers.
Brasilia workshop participants, however, offered words of caution about dealing
with best practice cases. They stressed that access by weaker municipalities to
3



best practice solutions should be as broad as possible, lest existing inequalities
among cities in Brazil be made worse.
1.13  Municipal reform: The project experience demonstrates that it is
feasible to improve municipal management of urban service provision. Moreover,
low-income urban communities increasingly hold local government responsible
for these services. For these reasons, federal and state govemment policies,
supported by Bank urban sector work, should aim to facilitate municipal reform in
this area. This can encourage, among other things, innovative financial
intermediation to mobilize private sector funding. Such funding could be used for
project interventions to improve the living conditions of the urban poor-a job
that municipalities can do well, but not on a sufficient scale for lack of resources.
According to participants at the Brasilia workshop, reform at this level should
focus upon fiscal strengthening. Workshop discussions made it clear that reform
programs have to adopt realistic time-frames for poorer municipalities to
effectively assume greater responsibilities under decentralization.
1.14 Robust and comprehensive physical solutions: To have sustainable
benefits over the long term, projects should apply complete and proven technical
solutions that use durable materials. These can better survive maintenance that
is typically lacking. Without maintenance, initial cost savings of cheaper
technologies can be more than wiped out by additional investments necessary to
replace prematurely obsolete infrastructure. As pointed out during the Brasilia
workshop, low-cost solutions are not always in the end low-cost. For street
paving to have sustainable impacts, for instance, project interventions should
include sidewalks and drainage so that the infrastructure can function properly.
Works should use robust materials that can withstand the neglect, which they
are likely to be subject to over many years. The importance of robust solutions
was recognized during the workshop, but with a key caveat that maintenance
itself needs to be improved.
1.15 Support policy and research institutions: To ensure long-term
commitment to sector policy development and urban planning at the city level, it
is essential to have a solid organizational structure in which these activities take
top priority. The best practice project cities provide many examples of this. To
help innovate in urban policy development, future project interventions should
both support the establishment of new urban research and planning institutes in
the private and public sectors, and consolidate existing ones.
1.16 Participatory assessment as part of evaluation: This should be a
routine at the ICR and IER stages. Final project beneficiaries--especially women-
-have a very special role to play in project evaluation. As well as providing a user
perspective upon project outcomes, they constitute the principal-and
sometimes the only-repository of project information essential for evaluation
purposes. Consulting beneficiaries during evaluation also helps give final project
users and beneficiaries a strong voice as stakeholders in the improvements
made. Beneficiary participation in evaluation emerged as a priority theme during
discussions at the Brasilia workshop and later written comments that
4



emphasized the strategic importance of local communities in the search for
solutions to urban problems.
1.17 Base-line data and performance indicators: Participants at the Brasilia
workshop agreed that project designers should record data that portray base-line
conditions-i.e. without the project-and also identify performance indicators at
the inception of all new operations. The IER fully endorses a recommendation
that, among other things, provides a firmer basis for future project monitoring
and evaluation. In the meantime and without such data for older projects,
evaluators will have to continue using base-line surrogates. These may include
secondary data-such as census information used by this IER-that best fits
ideal temporal or spatial references for an impact evaluation exercise.
Performance indicators themselves-both quantitative and qualitative-should
reflect changes in base-line conditions brought on by project interventions and
be central to such evaluations. Written comments by Brazilian experts
emphasized the need to resume urban research-abandoned in the 1980s in
Brazil-to develop a better understanding of baseline conditions.
5






2. Study Objectives and Design
This study aims to learn how best practice project municipalities
succeeded in improving living conditions of the poor, and thereby
make practical recommendations for policy makers in the sector.
The evaluation focuses upon a few key impact domains, notably
urban living conditions, decentralization and beneficiaries' voice in
improvements. Data collection from both secondary sources and
during missions to eleven cities throughout Brazil enabled the study
team to test hypotheses ofproject impact within each one of these
domains. Direct participation offinal beneficiaries in the evaluation
gave important insights into project perfonnance.
OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE STUDY
2.1   Objectives: This impact evaluation study (IES) has four principal aims:
* To leam how best practice municipalities address and reconcile efficiency
and poverty reduction equity goals in urban service delivery.
* To identify and assess: (i) sustainable direct and indirect project impacts
upon the living conditions of the urban poor in Brazil; (ii) specific project
actions associated with Brazilian municipalities that succeeded in
improving these conditions efficiently; (iii) innovations introduced by the
projects that can be replicated elsewhere.
* To draw lessons about project design and implementation features that
most help improve the living conditions of the urban poor.
* To provide practical and focused recommendations for Brazilian and
Bank policy makers on ways of bringing sustainable benefits to the poor
efficiently.
In short, the objectives of this study are to determine if and how the original
goals of the projects (Table 3.1) are still being met, to identify unexpected side
effects and to make recommendations for future action in the sector. Participants
in the Brasilia seminar, held April 22-23, 1997 at SEAIN, considered that project
evaluators themselves are responsible for helping to ensure that
recommendations are integrated into new project preparation.
2.2   Projects with a broad scope but similar aims: Despite geographical
diversity and varied nomenclatures, all five projects evaluated by this study
aimed to tackle both efficiency and equity aspects of urban service
7



improvements.2 This was through selected investments in urban infrastructure
and technical assistance to executing agencies in cities throughout Brazil. The
study highlights questions such as the reconcilement of efficiency and equity
goals in urban development, which are at the heart of efforts to define a strategic
response to the development challenges of the sector in Brazil today. For this
reason, the IER also looks at how more recent projects incorporate the lessons
from the Bank's earlier experience in determining the relative priorities of
increased efficiency in service delivery and financing and meeting the needs of
the urban poor through project and non-lending work.
IMPACT DOMAINS, INDICATORS & EVALUATION HYPOTHESES
2.3    Domains: The study focuses upon three possible impact domains: (i)
living conditions of the poor; (ii) decentralizing urban service provision; and (iii)
users' voice and leaming about urban service provision. The five projects may
have impacts in many other areas too, but budget and time constraints require
the study to focus only upon the most important ones. Potential project impacts
upon municipal finances, for instance, are not covered by this study.
2.4   Initial research questions: The three domains were chosen as priority
for this study by the desire to learn answers to key sector questions still topical in
Brazil today. Questions raised by the evaluation team included:
*  What do permanent improvements in living conditions of the poor in best
practice cities owe to the projects themselves?
*  Are improvements in living conditions for the poor significantly better in
project cities than in other cities, which did not receive project support?
*  What is the impact of Bank non-lending activities in Brazil, if any, upon
decentralizing urban development responsibilities on to the shoulders of
municipal administrations?
*  Do projects have institutional development (ID) impacts that help cities
meet both efficiency and equity goals in service delivery?
*  Is participation by final beneficiaries a factor in project success?
2.5    Evaluation methodology: Within each  impact domain, the team
identified indicators to test evaluation hypotheses formulated about possible
project impacts. In the case of the 'living conditions' domain, for instance, the
study used quantitative indicators of households served at the municipal level,
using census data of 1980 and 1991. Hypotheses about physical improvements
2 References in this study are to technical efriciency, namely the production of a given output of urban
services for fewer (i.e. less costly) inputs. The concept of allocative or demand efficiency is referred to
briefly the report's discussion of project's impacts upon decentralization in Chapter 5. In using the term
equity, the study refers to project goals of equitable allocation of the benefits of urban services to low
income residents, commonly called poverty targeting in project documentation.
8



on the ground were tested through direct observation by the study team during
site visits to the areas improved. For other impact domains, indicators were
mostly qualitative and hypotheses tested through contacts with key informants
and community groups in the project cities themselves. Table 2.1 summarzes
key details.
2.6    Quantification: To  measure  project physical impacts  upon  living
conditions, the study constructs quantifiable impact indicators to measure
changes in service provision before and after the projects at the municipal level.
The evaluation also conducts with and without project evaluations, through
comparing the performance of project and non-project cities. The expectation, of
course, was that progress toward meeting demand for infrastructure would be
greater in project cities than in unassisted cities.
Table 2.1 Impact Domains, Indicators and Hypotheses
- Domain 1: Living Conditions of the Poor
Indicators:                   Key Evaluation Hyzpotheses:
1. households with adequate   Greater improvement during 1980-91 in project cities than other cities.
water supply and sanitation
2. households with adequate   Greater improvement during 1980-91 in project cities than other cities.
housing quality and space
3. physical improvements on the  Project interventions led to sustained improvements in living conditions
ground                        of intervention areas, subject to maintenance constraints.
4. local economic and social  Project improvements triggered new local economic and social
activities                    activities.
- Domain 2: Decentralizing Urban Service Provision
Indicators:                   Key Evaluation HyIpotheses:
5. project ownership          Local project ownership increased as responsibilities shifted to
municipalities.
6. local legislation          Project municipalities adopted laws and regulations to simplify project
approvals, planning and execution.
7. municipal administrative   Project interventions led municipalities to focus upon project evaluation,
procedures                    procurement, improved methods of cost recovery.
8. municipal administrative   Project municipalities made permanent changes to facilitate project
structure                     planning and execution.
9. nature of decentralization  Decentralization was within the public sector, primarily devolution of
responsibilities to municipalities.
- Domain 3: Users' Voice and Learning about Urban Service Provision
Indicators:                   Key Evaluation 1-lypotheses:
10. strength of formal community  Projects gave community organizations-especially among
organization                  women-a new role, mainly in monitoring implementation.
11. leaming the rules of urban  Projects allowed residents to leam about formal responsibilities and
service provision             procedures for urban service provision. Residents leamed to hold local
govemment accountable for these services.
12. residents' participation in  Users had little or no voice during the planning stage, but this did not
project planning              undermine their support for interventions that were obviously
necessary.
13. NGO participation         Insignificant role because few urban NGOs exist in Brazil and their
participation was not factored into project design.
9



2.7   Qualitative assessment: To evaluate project ID impacts the study
compiled time lines of key ID events related to projects. From sector reviews and
other literature, these events were mapped chronologically along four vectors: (i)
Brazilian government sector policy; (ii) Bank policy for the sector as a whole; (iii)
Bank policy for the sector in Brazil; and (iv) Bank financed project events. Each
vector was disaggregated into a more detailed time line (Annex Tables A.1-A.4).
The study team uses the evolving framework of govemment policy and Bank
sector strategy to judge whether the occurrence of these events at particular
times can be attributed to interventions by the projects evaluated.
2.8   Priorities: Study definitions of impact domains, indicators and
hypotheses are based upon the priorities set by the projects themselves as well
as themes of sector strategy topical today, notably the decentralization of urban
development responsibilities. During the course of the study, the evaluation
team's discussions with project beneficiaries, key informants and finally Brasilia
workshop participants helped confirm that the themes selected were highly
relevant to key project stakeholders.
FOCUS UPON BEST PRACTICE MUNICIPALITIES
2.9   Reasons: Understanding how the most successful project municipalities
were able to improve living conditions so much can provide a key to replicating
the mechanisms and instruments used elsewhere. Looking at selected cases
such as these among more than 464 municipalities benefited by these projects
also kept the study itself manageable. It is important that evaluation should be
cost effective and expeditiously completed if it is to provide useful inputs for
future work. The focus at the level of the municipality is for a number of reasons.
Since the 1988 Constitution, municipalities have been more responsible for
urban service provision in Brazil. They also inherited responsibility for the
projects evaluated here. Secondary data for this study is most readily available
at the municipal level. Looking at best practice cities was stimulated by the
evaluation team's concern for the plight of other weaker municipalities. By
elucidating some of the features of best practice, the study hopes to disseminate
solutions that can help bring less successful cities up to form.
2.10  Identification: From census data, the study identifies best practice cities
among project municipalities as being those making the greatest progress in
improving the urban infrastructure and housing conditions of their residents
between 1980 and 1991 (details Table 2.2). The evaluation case study work
focuses upon two best practice cities each from the Medium-sized cities project
(Loan 1720), the Parana Market Towns Project (Loan 2343) and the NE Flood
Project (Loan 2645). It also includes the three metropolitan cities that hosted
projects in the Northeast region. Some adjustments in selection were made for
mission logistical reasons. The study also covers Juazeiro as the twin town of
10



best-practice Petrolina. In addition it considers Natal, a city that has achieved
very high levels of urban service and housing.3
DATA COLLECTION METHODS
2.11   Secondary data: Before collecting primary data during site visits, the
evaluation team reviewed a considerable body of information from secondary
sources. These included Bank project documentation itself, evaluation
documents, Bank sector papers and government urban policy documents
referring to the 1975-1996 period. This review was particularly important to help
ensure that possible exogenous-in other words non-project-causes of impacts
could be isolated from project effects themselves. Finally, the study assembled
1980 and 1991 census data on urban service levels to portray the before project
and after project situations of the cities studied.
2.12 Primary data: OED fielded three missions to eleven cities in Brazil in
September and December 1995, and July 1996 to collect primary evaluation
data by the following means:
*  group interviews with beneficiaries in the areas improved under the
projects.
*  key informant interviews with present and former local government
officials, others with knowledge of the projects and NGO representatives.
  expert on-site observation and assessment of the cost, quality and
condition of project infrastructure and living conditions, using a standard
checklist for all cities.
The guidance of federal authorities knowledgeable of the project experiences-
notably SEAIN in Brasilia and SUDENE in Recife-helped ensure the success of
regaining the institutional memory of these important experiences.
BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATION IN EVALUATION
2.13 Excellent response: Eleven group meetings with 8-16 project
beneficiaries in each of the cities visited gave important evaluation insights into
participatory development of poorer areas of Brazilian cities. Responses were
very good and residents most willing to help with the study's inquiries at very
short notice. Even for project events happening more than ten years ago,
residents' memories today remain very firm about what were watershed
3 As a result of this selection, the cases evaluated cover a wide range of city types throughout the
country. They include: (i) the three metropolitan regions of the Northeast, Fortaleza, Recife and Salvador;
(ii) five medium-sized cities, Petrolina, Juazeiro, Natal and Aracaju in the Northeast and Juiz de Fora in
the Southeast; (iii) two small market towns, Propria and Colorado; and (iv) a dormitory suburb of the
metropolitan region of Curitiba, Almirante Tamandare.
1 1



interventions in their neighborhoods. Most areas visited have undergone no
further improvements since the original project interventions.
2.14  Element of surprise: To avoid  possible stage-management of
community responses to its inquiry, the evaluation team selected the beneficiary
groups to interview only upon the missions visiting the selected cities. After
arrival, the evaluation team identified the project areas with the help of local
officials. One of these areas was randomly selected and the team got to work
immediately contacting and setting up a meeting with the neighborhood group.
2.15 Group interviews: In some cities, community social workers or the local
community based organization (CBO) itself helped locate residents to make up
the community group for interview. In other cases, members of the evaluation
team itself went from door to door to invite residents to participate in the
discussions. In no cases did the local authorities hand-pick participants. In larger
metropolitan cities, it proved more difficult to mobilize residents for such
meetings than in smaller towns.
2.16 The discussions with beneficiaries: The venues of the meetings were
varied, sometimes a community center, school, health post, neighborhood bar,
the home of one of the beneficiaries, or even outdoors on a neighborhood
sidewalk. In this way, fruifful discussions lasting around 90 minutes were held
with some 105 final beneficiaries in the cities visited. Their fascinating stories led
the team to look more closely at participatory urban development than foreseen
in the original study design. When, at the very first group meeting, a local
resident said that the project made the area 'heaven' compared with how it was
before, she may have been exaggerating, but the evaluation team knew that it
was on to something.
12



Table 2.2  Indicators of Living Conditions in Case Study Cities 1980-91
1991 Share of population with adequate services In terms  1980-91 percentage point change of share of population
1991         1980-91     of:                                              with adequate services in terms of:
(1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)          (6)         (7)         (8)
Municipality            Urban        Urban pop. Water        Basic       Overcrow-   Housing      Water       Basic        Overcrow-   Housing
- State                 population    Growth     Supply      Sanitation   ded         Quality     Supply      Sanitation   ded         Quality
p.a.                                Housing                                          Housing
Fortaleza               1,768,637    3.6%        70A%        39.6%       68.0%        78.4%       +30.2       -26.9        +11.8       -9.4
eVN state             48143,809     37%        56&6%        3008%        U 65%       Palo%       +23,4       -15.0        +18,1       +8&4
Recife                  1,298,229    0.9%        80.7%       51.9%        74.3%       63.8%       +22.4       +14.0        +13.0       -28.0
*Petrolina              125,273      2.4%        64.4%       44.0%        58.5%       96.4%       +21.3       +6.6         +13.5       +8.2
-Penmambuco state       5,028,263    Z7yo        746%        37.0%        08,9%       85,4%       +23.7        I14.9       +13.0       -3.9
Salvador                2,073,510    4.0%        88.3%       66.7%        90.0%       67.5%       +15.7       +14.1        +11.9       -1.0
Juazeiro                102,266      1.3%        65.9%       17.1%        56.8%       99.7%       +10.6       -9.2         +9.1        +23.2
-Bahia state            6,966,914    3.90A       70.0a       40.9%        6S.5%       95.3%       +12.7        +44.        +10.5       +7.f
*Natal                  606,887      4.7%        85.9%       81.4%        70.7%       98.0%       +16.7        +1.2        +11.3       +1.9
-R noM,estate           1,66Z192  S.%   e          7%        50.5h        66%de       9l%         +21.3        +e$4        +fai
*Aracaj0                402,341      3.9%        86.0%       74.5%        73.9%       97.6%       +17.1       +22.2        +13.4       +2.6
*Propria                21,944       0.3%        85.2%       64.5%        64.1%       99.5%       +14.6        +41.9       +7.7        +14.1
- Serglpe state         997,233      4.6%        4t4%        48.9%        69.6%       98.3%       +21.4        +17-4       +13.4       +8.7
*Almirante Tamandar6    59,080       7.4%        79.9%       54.7%        56.5%       98.4%       +59.9        +41.8       +13.9       -3.4
*Colorado               15,616       -0.8%       91.9%       50.5%        84.4%       99.9%       +33.2        +50.5       +19.9       -0.1
..Paranistate          6a150,667    3.1%h        91,2%       5a.4%        80.0%       97.1%       +20.3        +10.4       +20.2       -2.1
*Juiz de Fora           380,249      2.4%        97.0%       93.2%        89.0%       98.2%       +10.2        +10.1       +16.4       +0.3
- Mines Gerais state    11,786,893    2.6%/e     87.4%       73.5%        79.8h      98.9e       +18.0        +1Z8        +212        -1.7
-BRAZIL                 110,9Q0i990   3.1%       85.9%       66.8%        736%        94.6%       +14.0        +8.7        +1.6        48.2
Notes: (1) Adequate water supply defined as households with intemal water supply to house, whether supplied by main system, well, spring or other source.
(2) Adequate basic sanitation defined as households with waste outlet collected to main sewerage system or septic tank, whether individual or shared.
(3) Adequate housing with respect to overcrowding defined as households living at less than 1.85 persons per room.
(4) Adequate housing with respect to quality defined as households not living in favela type units.
(5-8) The share of households adequately served in 1991 minus the share adequately served in 1980.
Source: IBGE Demographic Census 1980 and 1991
13



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



3. The Projects and Their Setting
All five projects were prepared without the benefit of country sector
work. Urban policy dialogue in Brazil-with early emphasis upon
poverty alleviation-evolved only as part ofproject preparation
itself. The federal National Council for Urban Development (CNDU)-
responsible for the projects-was the main interlocutor of the Bank
during 1979-85. In approving these early projects, Bank EDs
emphasized efficiency goals that were later supported by Bank
sectorpapers on Brazilffrom 1983 onwards. ICRs and PARs consid-
ered all but one of the operations satisfactory, ratings endorsed by
this study. Although varied in scope, all projects aimed to improve
living conditions of the urban poor and to help institutional
development. IER findings focus upon these two aspects and from
the lessons learned, the study recommends key actions to help
improve urban service provision across many municipalities
throughout Brazil.
POVERTY FOCUS OF EARLY PROJECTS (1972-1983)
3.1   No sector work background: All five projects were prepared during
1979-83 without the benefit of country specific Bank sector work. This meant that
each operation had to find its own policy priorities. Sector work for Latin America
began only in 1983, and specifically for Brazil only in a 1985 paper. Without
sector work, project preparation was inevitably protracted; it had to include a
policy dialogue too. Preparation of these projects typically required Bank staff
inputs of 75-100 staff weeks over a 3-5 year period, compared to 25 staff weeks
over 1-2 years for operations today (World Bank 1994. Annex Tables).
3.2   Reasons: Until 1983, the Bank relied upon centrally conceived blueprints
of sector policy that were not tailored to individual countries such as Brazil. There
had been little progress in sector dialogue between the Bank and Brazil itself,
owing to lack of support by the National Housing Bank (Banco Nacional de
Habitagdo - BNH). At that time, BNH was at the center of an impressive array of
sector policy instruments embodied in Brazil's Second National Development
Plan (Il-PND 1975-79). BNH had little time-or need for additional resources-to
engage the Bank in policy discussions.4
3.3   Urban lending and CNDU: Bank urban lending picked up in 1979 after
an inter-ministerial committee in Brasilia, CNDU (National Council for Urban
4 Consequently, the results of the only Bank project with BNH as borrower-the Sites and Services and
Low-cost Housing Project (Loan 1653-BR)-were marred by what the OED audit referred to as the lack of
interest of an 'unwilling borrower.
15



Development) was put in charge of federal govemment urban policy, and over-
saw extemal lending for the sector. All five projects evaluated by this study were
prepared through CNDU.5 The Bank engaged CNDU in sector policy discussions
closely but still on a project-by-project basis only. The underlying Bank
agreement with CNDU was that efficiency entailed the large-scale replication of
project experiences. Equity concems meant that Bank investments should
concentrate, as a priority, upon Brazil's poorest Northeast region.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' VOICE
3.4   EDs' concerns with cost recovery: Policy direction also came, from
Bank Executive Directors (EDs) at Board Presentations. For each of the five
projects, EDs wanted to know how cost recovery would work. They saw cost
recovery an instrument for mobilizing resources for additional urban investments
needed in Brazil. Threats to the efficient implementation of the projects
themselves were also of concern to EDs. They feared the operations were
unduly complex and difficult to manage efficiently, involving too many
components, cities and agencies.6
3.5   Skepticism over equity goals: The Board also supported the projects'
poverty reduction equity goals. But EDs were keen to leam how the projects
could create employment opportunities within intervention areas themselves and
thus be instrumental in helping the urban poor help themselves. Also, EDs
wondered whether the projects' equity goals were being thrust upon a reluctant
Brazilian govemment, which might be unconvinced about the efficacy of this
approach. They were concemed that urban improvements would further
stimulate rural-urban migration, eventually overloading services and worsening
living conditions. In short, EDs challenged Bank staff to ensure that these urban
projects would deliver efficiently on their promises of sustained improvements to
the living conditions of the urban poor in Brazil.
EFFICIENCY FOCUS OF THE FORMAL STRATEGY (1983-87)
3.6   First aftempts to spell out a strategy: From 1983, Bank sector strategy
in Brazil began to take form, albeit in a piecemeal and ad hoc fashion. Brazil's
increasingly volatile institutional environment following the debt crisis of 1982
made it necessary for Bank to spell out a country strategy in all lending sectors.
For urban, the first attempt came in the Brazil chapter of the 1983 sector paper
on Urban Development in LAC in the 1980s. This endorsed efficiency and equity
5 Initail identification and preparation of the Medium-sized Cities Project (Loan 1720-BR) began under
CNDU's predecessor, the National Committee for Urban Policy and Metropolitan Areas (CNPU).
6 The Brasilia workshop highlighted cost recovery, its conception and measurement, as an priorty
element of future project design and monitoring.
16



goals as twin pillars of an urban strategy. Out of this paper came CNDU's
agreement with the Bank that project investments in the metropolitan centers of
the Northeast region would be instrumental to this strategy.
3.7    Support for macro-economic growth: The 1985 Urban Sector Strategy
for Brazil--the first Bank sector paper devoted exclusively to Brazil-consolidated
the earlier LAC approach. It offered a potentially resilient strategy that might
survive the expected turbulence of transition from military to civilian rule in that
year. Clearly, the way of doing urban business in Brazil was about to change
radically. CNDU itself was abolished in 1985. The 1985 Strategy's answer was to
look beyond specific organizational arrangements and favor urban projects with
efficiency goals as a way toward faster economic growth.7 The latter, was agreed
by all parties, to be a top priority. Poverty reduction was still in the strategy, but
more as a constraint upon macroeconomic growth that had to be addressed,
rather than as an end in itself. Perhaps for being too bold in shifting emphasis
from equity to efficiency, the 1985 Paper had only limited dissemination (in green
cover) and was not endorsed by the incoming civilian administration.
3.8    A short-lived Ministry: The new civilian government appeared to give
urban development a high political priority in 1985, when it created a separate,
but short-lived, Ministry of Urban Development (MDU). But BNH-still the
principal financing agent of the sector-was unexpectedly abolished the following
year. MDU itself, after internal reorganization and a change of name was itself
made extinct in 1988. These events represented the final dismantling of direct
federal involvement in the sectors and were a prelude to the 1988 Constitution
that invoked a major shift of power, funding and responsibilities to municipal
government. Although the projects themselves made no direct contribution to
these major political changes in Brazil, the study finds that they did demonstrate
that municipalities could become effective partners in urban development
programs after the federal government withdrawal (Chapter 5).
SHIFT TO DECENTRALIZATION (1988-92)
3.9    First, project action: Decentralization seemed an appropriate strategic
option in Brazil in the run up the 1988 Constitution, but really it was the only
avenue still open to continue urban development programs following federal
govemment retrenchment from the sector during 1985-88. For this reason, the
Bank supported two municipal development projects in the southern states of
7 Interestingly, discussions during the Brasilia workshop focused upon the importance of considering the
macro-economic context when designing interventions to improve urban service provision.
8 One Bank Strategy victim of the dismantling of the federal apparatus was the 1987 Urban Development
in the Northeast paper, which called for closer attention to economic growth in the region. The paper
argued that poverty targeting per se was not a sufficient condition to justify Bank investment. Federal
government retrenchment interrupted Bank urban activities, leaving the approach proposed by this paper
untested.
1 7



Parana and Rio Grande do Sul in 1989. For such projects, decentralization
promised a context where equity and poverty alleviation concems could be
incorporated into development programs driven by basic concerns for efficiency.
3.10 Later, policy support: At a global level, the Bank supported
decentralization through municipal development in its 1991 Urban Policy Paper
(UPP) which revived the sector policy debate and specifically endorsed munidipal
solutions to urban service provision as an efficient solution. These tenets were
incorporated into two sector papers for Brazil, the 1991 draft Medium-Termn
Strategy for the Infrastructure Sectors and the 1992 The Challenge of Municipal
Development in the 1990s paper. Equity considerations took second place in
both papers, although the municipal report reckoned that local governments had
a key social role to play in poverty alleviation. This strategy drove the design of
newer municipal development projects in Brazil-approved in 1993 and 1997
respectively-currently under way in the states of Minas Gerais and Bahia.
RESULTS OF COMPLETED URBAN PROJECTS
3.11   Results thus far: Since 1978, the Bank helped finance altogether
fourteen completed urban projects in Brazil-including four urban transport
projects not covered by this IER-in an amount of US$1.2 billion. Table 3.1
summarizes details of the five operations covered in this study.
3.12  Ratings: Four out of the five operations reviewed by this study were
rated satisfactory by OED (Table 3.1). The Medium-size Cities (Loan 1720-BR)
and Parana Market Towns (Loan 2343-BR) projects were particularly successful,
with top ratings in all categories, including sustainability and institutional
development. Only the Recife Project (Loan 2170-BR) gained an unsatisfactory
rating, owing to its unduly ambitious design and difficult macro-economic
conditions during implementation, according to the PAR. The IER reconsidered
these ratings in light of new information available and concluded that they
accurately reflect the performance of these projects as far as meeting original
project objectives are concerned.
3.13 Project similarities: While the scope of objectives among the five
operations varies, they did all aim to improve living conditions in project cities.
Likewise, formal project descriptions were diverse, but always included
components of upgrading low-income areas9 and local institutional development.
For this reason, much of this evaluation focuses upon these two components.
This narrow focus is for methodological reasons only, and does not infer that
project components should not include complementary actions-such as
a Although housing the urban poor, all project areas visited by the evaluation team had regular street
geometry, subdivisions and tenure. For this reason, they cannot be classified as favelas. Nevertheless,
wrftten comments on this study from Brazil argued that urban policy should also address informally
occupied settlements within the city, something this study fully endorses.
18



environmental campaigns and the mobilization of preventative 'health agents"-
recommended in written comments by Brazilian experts upon earlier drafts of
this report.
3.14 Later projects: More recently completed projects in the Brazil urban
portfolio include municipal development projects in the southern states of Santa
Catarina, Parana and Rio Grande do Sul.10 Their respective ICRs rated all three
satisfactory. They are not covered by this IER, however, since they have not yet
been completed for five years, the minimum time for sustainable impacts to be
considered measurably.
Table 3.1 Project Summaries
Objectives                     Description                    Ratings/final cost/final loan
Medium-size Cities (Ln 1720)
Improve urban infrastructure and   O  Upgrading through infrastruc-  Overall:  Satisfactory
services; strengthen federal      ture in low-income areas    InstUtut Dev.   Substantial
agencies responsible for urban  0  Community services         Sustainabillty:  Likely
policy.                        0  Improve municipal admin.    - final cost   US$150 million
- loan amount  US$70 million
Recife Metropolitan (Ln 2170)
Improve housing and urban      0  Upgrade low income areas    Overall:       Unsatisfactory
services; induce desired pattems   0  Metropolitan infrastructure    InstituL Dev:   Negligible
of metro development; income   0  Income and employment       Sustainability   Unlikely
generation for the poor;          components                  - final cost   US$216 million
institutional development.     0  Institutional development   - loan amount  US$108 million
Fortaleza/Salvador Pilot Metropolitan (Ln 2193)
Prepare development programs    0  Detailed engineering and   Overall:       Satisfactory
for Fortaleza and Salvador;       investment studies and TA    InsUtuL Dev:   Parfial
strengthen planning agencies.  0  Pilot upgrading works       Sustalnability   Marginal
- final cost   US$12 million
- loan amount  US$$6 million
Parana Market Towns (Ln 2343)
Long term borrowing for municip-  0  Municipal infrastructure  Overall:      Satisfactory
alities; systematic selection of  0  Community facilities    Insfitut Dev:   Substantial
subprojects; fiscal recovery of  O  Equipment and vehicles    Sustainability:  Likely
investment costs; better living  0  TA for cadastres, tax and  - final cost  US$108 million
standards through infrastructure.  municipal accounting       - loan amount  US$52 million
NE Flood Reconstruction (Ln 2645)
Rehabilitate flood-damaged     0  Reconstruction of housing   Overall:       Satisfactory
municipalities; strengthen     0  Urban infrastructure       InstituL Dev:   Partial
planning for flood prevention.  0  Community facilities       Sustalnabllilty:  Likely
o  Micro-enterprise credits   - ffnal cost    US$166 million
O  Studies                    - loan amount  US$99 million
Sources: Project ICRs and PARs.
10 Santa Catarina Small Towns Improvement Project (Loan 2623-BR), the Parana State Municipal
Development Project (Loan 3100-BR), and the Rio Grande do Sul Municipal Development Project (Loan
3129-BR).
19



ON-GOING SECTOR OPERATIONS AND PRIORITIES
3.15 Current projects: Recently, the Bank has reduced its urban lending
portfolio in Brazil. Currently, three urban projects are currently under
implementation as of early 1997.11 Two municipal development projects, one
each in the states of Minas Gerais and Bahia, are geared towards efficiency
goals through trying to improve productivity in urban service provision at the
municipal level. The third project in the Northeastem state of Ceara, focuses
more upon poverty alleviation through targeted investments in water resources in
that drought-prone region. The reduction in urban lending comes at a time when
Bank understanding of Brazil's urban sector has never been better founded, as
far as sector work is concerned.
3.16 Inter-American Development Bank: Since receiving a mandate from
the U.S. government to act as its representative in Latin America, the Inter-
American Bank (IDB) has increased its lending for urban development projects in
Brazil.12 In the case of the state of Parana, an IDB operation continues reform
efforts begun with earlier Bank-financed urban projects.
3.17   Current priorities: The reconcilement of efficiency and equity goals in
reform efforts in Brazil remains at the center of Bank sector strategy in the
country. As reform moves downstream with decentralization, a major challenge
is how to develop multiple policy dialogues with many municipal interlocutors
simultaneously. Clearly, the old-style one-on-one dialogue with an agency like
CNDU is no longer appropriate. This IER aims to provide elements to help
wholesale policy advice to local govemments on a large scale through the
dissemination of the lessons of best practice experiences.
" (i) Minas Gerais Municipal Development Project (Loan 3639-BR); (ii) ceara Urban Development and
Water Resources Management Project (Loan 3789-BR); and (iii) Bahia State Municipal Management
Project (Loan 4140-BR) with total Bank financing scheduled for US$390 million.
12 There currently three IDS financed urban projects under implementation in Brazil: (i) Urban improvement
program of Rio de Janeiro; (ii) Favela upgrading program of sao Paulo; and (iii) PARANA URBANO
municipal development program, with scheduled IDB lending of uS$580 million.
20



4. Impacts on Living Conditions
As intended, the projects improved the living conditions of the urban
poor, especially through better access and reduced flooding risks
for local residents. Typical lack of maintenance meant that infra-
structure solutions using more robust materials had more sustain-
able impacts. Project beneficiaries themselves and outside expert
observers had strikingly similar viewpoints on these issues. Impacts
upon the local economy were modest, while social impacts were
more significant. Based upon these findings, the study makes three
recommendations. First, efforts should continue to improve living
conditions of the poor. Second, infrastructure and seruice solutions
should employ robust materials. Third, evaluation should always
take into account the beneficiaries'perception ofproject outcomes.
FRAMEWORK OF EVALUATION
4.1   The presumption that improvements to living conditions can be attributed
to the projects is strong. These operations were the only significant interventions
in recent years in the areas visited, according to local residents and government
officials. Purely in terms of evaluation methodology, the projects' exclusiveness
in the areas concerned meant that there was no chance that the improvements
observed were outcomes of other operations. In terms of neighborhood
improvements themselves there is a widespread belief-echoed at the Brasilia
workshop and by written comments on earlier drafts of this report-that
successive project interventions in one area are likely to lead to even greater
improvements than a single operation.
BENEFICIARIES' PERSPECTIVE
4.2   Befter conditions: Final beneficiaries  themselves  rate  project
improvements as making living conditions better in seven and much better in
three improved areas of the cities visited (Table 4.1). Only in Recife, whose
project outcome was rated unsatisfactory, do local residents see no
improvement in the project area. Nowhere do they consider that living conditions
are worse. These findings are based upon residents' opinions about changes
after the project in physical attributes such as access, health and education
services, basic sanitation, drainage, street paving and maintenance.
4.3   Dramatic improvements over time: Within the groups interviewed,
longer-term residents, who had lived in their respective area for 12-15 years or
more, graphically recall the poor conditions of their neighborhoods before the
projects. Perhaps the most striking case of improvements was in the city of
21



Colorado, where the project had literally saved the habitability of neighborhoods
threatened by severe erosion. In Natal, for instance, the project area was known
to them as the "sewer of Natal" before the improvements. Even people who had
moved into these areas after the project leamed about the conditions prevailing
before the projects from older neighbors. Perception of the improvements is very
important in itself too. Residents in Petrolina, for instance, explained to the
evaluation team how they feel that their area has become more 'respectable' as
a result of the project.
Table 4.1 Beneficiaries' perspective on their living conditions
City:           Rating of project outcomes:    Most commonly cited examples of:
- Project area    Before:after    With:without  - satisfactory outcomes   - unsatisfactory
outcomes
Fortaleza       Better         (no comment)   Regular bus services       Lack of sewerage.
Parque Potira                                 More day-care centers     Flooding is worse.
Recife          Same            (no comment)   Bus service right into    Flooding is worse.
- Casa                                         area.                     Maintenance inadequate.
Amarela                                        More paved streets.
Salvador        Better          Better         Less flooding.            Lack of health services.
- Antonio                                      Better vehicular access.    Maintenance inadequate.
Balbino
*Pefrolina,     Much better    Better          Better drainage.          Blocked sewerage
- Vila Moc6                                    Health posts and schools.  system.
Maintenance inadequate
Juazeiro        Better          Better         Better vehicular access.    Flooding still occurs.
- Alto do                                      More school places.       Maintenance inadequate
Cnuzeiro
*Natal          Better          Same           Better vehicular access.    Flooding still occurs.
- Quintas                                      Access to nearby health    Maintenance inadequate.
raauMuch beter    Better         Less flooding/sewage      none.
i8 de Forte                                   Bus service more reliable
*Proprii        Better          Better         Less flooding.            Maintenance inadequate.
- Bairo                                        More schools.
Arn6rica
*Almirante      Better          Better         Better bus services.      Side streets still unpaved.
Tamandar6                                      Health post and schools.
- Lamenha
Grande- -----    WtJ- --------------------
*Colorado       Much better    Same            Better vehicular access.    none.
- Colorado     - - - -                      __Less flooding. . .                  _________
*Juiz de Fora    Better         Same           New bus services.         Flooding still occurs.
- Santa                                        Health post and schools.   Maintenance inadequate.
Efigenia
Notes:
* best pracice cases.
"before:after outcomes' summarize beneficiaries' comparison of the physical characteristics of the their areas today with
those of the unimproved pre-project condition of the same areas
"with:without outcomes' summarize beneficiaries' opinion of the physical conditions of their areas today with those of
similar, but still unimproved areas of their cities today.
Source: Impact Evaluation Study Group Interviews with Beneficiaries 1995-96
4.4     Better conditions than neighbors': Local residents in six cities reckon
their neighborhood to be better off today than other similar but still unserviced
22



areas of the respective cities. In three more cities-all best practice-residents
consider their area to be the same as others with respect to the physical
environment (Table 4.1). All residents, including shorter-term ones, made
comparisons with and without the project using a control area explicitly identified
for this purpose. In two cases, Recife and Fortaleza, local residents were reticent
to give their opinions of other areas, however, for fear of offending their
neighbors from those neighborhoods. In the three cases where residents report
no difference-Natal, Colorado and Juiz de Fora-residents are not dissatisfied
with their own respective area, but simply reporting that it has become the same
as respectable neighborhoods of town.
4.5   Access: Project improvements most commonly cited by local residents-
in all cities but Petrolina and Propria-are related to better access to the area
(Table 4.1). In some cases--Salvador, Juazeiro, Natal and Colorado-paved
streets and improved drainage allowed regular vehicular access to these areas
for the first time. Thus bus routes enter right into areas where they could not
penetrate before. In Fortaleza, for instance, residents recall a half-hour walk to
the nearest bus stop before the project. Today, buses ply right through the
project area. In Aracaju, a new bus terminal was inaugurated in the improved
area itself in 1986, shortly after the completion of the project. In 1985, new bus
routes were added to serve project areas in Almirante Tamandare and Juiz de
Fora, as soon as the project works were completed in those cities. In addition,
paved streets allow access by garbage trucks helping to guarantee cleaner
public areas in the project sites.
4.6   Drainage: An important direct impact of the projects cited by residents of
areas previously prone to annual flooding in four cities-Salvador, Aracaju,
Propria and Colorado-is that no serious flooding has occurred since the
completion of project drainage works some 10 years ago. On the other hand,
residents report that flash flooding in Fortaleza and Recife has actually worsened
since the projects. In both cases, this is because of additional paving without the
necessary drainage works. Formerly, the porous surfaces of unpaved areas
absorbed much of the run-off water. Flooding still occurs in project areas in
Juazeiro and Natal, but this is due to inadequate maintenance, which allows for
garbage to block the drains.
4.7   Social services: Residents also value additional health posts, day care
centers and schools in the improved areas. At the time of the visit of the
evaluation team, however, local people were dissatisfied that health posts had
almost no medicines due to a national supply crisis at that moment. The new
facilities were not components of the project themselves, but were for the most
part financed and implemented by municipal governments shortly after the
completion of the projects. A important facility-the technical school in Propria
for instance-was built by a private charitable foundation after improvements had
been made in the area. This is an example of an indirect project impact triggered
by initial upgrading and demand for additional improvements by the local
community.
23



4.8  Inadequate maintenance: Lack of infrastructure maintenance is the
commonest complaint by residents. It was mentioned in seven cities: Recife,
Salvador, Petrolina, Juazeiro, Natal, Propria and Juiz de Fora. Streets and
sidewalks are not cleaned or repaired. Although solid waste is now regularly
collected, much garbage still piles up in the streets and blocks drainage.
Residents admit that careless disposal of garbage by local people undermines
project benefits. The study gathered no evidence of self-help efforts to clean up
neighborhoods as are sometimes organized in the urban kampungs of Indonesia
(World Bank 1995). In Recife for instance, accumulated garbage even
undermines the physical stability of steep slopes. Only in Colorado do local
residents consider maintenance to be better today than before the project. That
is because flooding and serious erosion prevented the municipal govemment
from carrying out basic maintenance in conditions prevailing before the project.
4.9   Water supply and sanitation: Local residents also complain in most of
the cities visited that, although water distribution networks had been built, water
availability is irregular, sometimes only at the end of each day. Also, few of the
improved areas have an adequate sewerage system. A low-cost 'condominial'
network was implemented in Petrolina, but the success of this very cheap
solution depends upon proper use and maintenance by users themselves.
Residents there informed the evaluation team that their neighbors allowed the
backyard sewer to block frequently, causing sewage to back up into their
houses.
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES: EXPERT ASSESSMENT
4.10 Pavement: Cobblestones are the most common type of street paving
(Table 4.2). Only in Recife is the pavement condition of cobblestones rated good,
according to the visiting engineers. They rate the condition as fair only in the
other five cases. Improved access to project areas increases the flow of traffic-
particularly heavy service vehicles such as buses and solid waste trucks-which
break up pavement not designed for these kinds of loads. Asphalt paving is
proving more resilient and is rated in good condition today in all four cases, even
where maintenance is not good as in Almirante Tamandare and Juiz de Fora.
4.11  Drainage: All projects include drainage either in the form of covered
ducts running undemeath each side of the street (five cities) or open channels
mostly in the center (five cities). Fortaleza was a special case that had no
drainage component at all (Table 4.2). Overall, covered ducts are in better
condition today, while the visiting engineers rated two of the open channels in
Natal and Almirante Tamandare to be in poor condition. Where residents report
less flooding, covered ducts are generally used. Areas where flooding is worse
rely upon open channels which are frequently blocked by garbage and other
debris, such as concrete linings which are detached from canal walls.
4.12  One final technical observation about an innovative drainage technology
used for the first time at the project site in Salvador: there, concrete stairways for
24



slopes are designed in a modular fashion, and each piece includes a hollow U-
shaped duct directly beneath the steps that carries rainwater to the main
drainage channels at street level below. Despite no maintenance or repairs in ten
years, these stairways continue to function well to the present day. Moreover,
residents report fewer flooding problems in the area.
4.13 Water supply and basic sanitation: Visiting engineers rated the overall
conditions fair or poor in most cities except Aracaju and Colorado. Sewerage is
generally the most problematic. In Juiz de Fora, for instance, project design
allows untreated sewage to be discharged into storm drains, polluting open
drainage channels. A higher standard of system is used in Colorado, separating
household sewage from storm drainage with better results for the neighborhood
environment. The engineers confirmed the blockages of the low cost sewerage
system reported by residents in Petrolina.
Table 4.2 Infrastructure impact: expert assessment
City:             Pavement    Pavement  type of   drainage    street      basic     overall
- project area    material     condition   drainage  condition   lighting   sanitation  maintenance
Fortaleza         Irregular    fair       Surface   poor       fair       poor      poor
- Parque Potira    stones
Recife            Cobblestone  good       Open      fair       excellent  fair      fair
- Casa Amarela                            channel
Salvador          Cobblestone  fair       Open      fair       good       poor      fair
- Antonio Balbino                         channel
*Petrolina        Cobblestone  fair       Covered   good       good       fair       fair
- Vila Moc6                               ducts
Juazeiro          Cobblestone  fair       Covered  fair        good       fair       fair
- Alto do Cruzeiro                        ducts
*Natal            Cobblestone  fair       Open      poor       fair       -          fair
- Quintas                                 channel
*Aracajuj         Asphalt      good       Covered   good       good       good       good
- 18 de Forte                             ducts
*Propr-ha         Cobblestone  fair       Covered  fair        -          -          fair
- Bairro Am6rica                          ducts
*Almirante        asphalt      good       Open      poor       -          -          fair
Tamandar6                                 channel
- Lamenha Grande
*Colorado         asphalt      good       Covered   good       good       good       good
- Colorado                                ducts
*Julz de Fora     asphalt      good       open     fair        good       poor       fair
- Santa Efignia                           channel
Note: * best practice cases.
Impacts are given one of four ratings: excellent, good, fair, poor.
Source: Impact Evaluation Study's expert observations of project sites 1995-96.
4.14 Poor maintenance: Finally, expert assessments reveal many indications
of inadequate maintenance such as poor street cleaning, inadequate removal of
solid waste from public areas, broken street pavement and sidewalks, and very
poor service to unblock drains and sewage pipes (Table 4.2). On this important
issue there is unanimity of opinion between the study engineers and the local
residents themselves (cf. Table 4.1).
25



4.15   Costs: Visits by engineers did not enable an analysis of project costs for
three main reasons. First, cost records are naturally kept in current prices
subject to past hyperinflation."3 Second, physical quantities in municipal records
generally refer to several sites and works going on at the same time, and not just
the one of the Bank financed project. Third, some municipalities extended project
works at their own expense making it unclear where the physical boundaries of
the project site lie.
4.16 Internal economic rates of return: With inadequate project cost data,
accurate re-estimation of intemal economic rates of return (IERR) of the majority
of project investments is not possible. Nevertheless, local authorities in Salvador
and Juiz de Fora made special efforts to verify project costs, allowing the
evaluation team to calculate IERRs of 25% and 37% respectively for the projects'
paving investments. In both cases, the IER uses increased local properties
values reported by residents themselves to construct benefit streams for the
evaluation.14 These values indicate that the investments are still worthwhile from
an economic point of view. A broader comparative evaluation is made difficult,
however, by the scarcity of historical benchmark estimates with which current
performance could be compared. Completion reports do not include IERR
estimates because of the data difficulties just mentioned. Local govemments
have the capability to make these estimates today (details: Chapter 5), but do
not have records of earlier evaluations for which they were not responsible.
Appraisal of the projects led to IERR estimates in only three cases: Medium-
sized cities (Loan 1720-BR) - 12%; Recife Metropolitan (Loan 2170-BR) - 16%,
and Parana Market Towns (Loan 2343-BR) - 24%. The figures given refer to
average internal rates of return from paving investments across samples of cities
or locations.
4.17 Environmental conditions: Visiting engineers rated the cleanliness of
public areas according to whether garbage was strewn about and/or discarded in
public places. Air pollution was assessed from direct observations of
atmospheric dust particles, vehicle exhaust and offensive smells of sewage or
solid waste. Fire risk was assessed on the likely ease of access to fire-fighting
equipment to any part of the area and the risk of fire passing from house to
house. Assessments of traffic conditions focus upon traffic congestion and likely
vehicle:pedestrian conflicts to the disadvantage to the latter. Noise is assessed
mostly through questioning local residents. Finally, the study assesses the
quality of green areas and tree planting on the site (Table 4.3 ).
4.18   Cleanliness: The urban environment with respect to cleanliness of public
areas is rated good in six cities, Fortaleza, Salvador, Aracaju, Almirante
13 The precise moment that costs were incurred-necessary to know in order to convert to real values-is
not clearly discemible from project records.
14 These compare with a project-wide IERR estimate at appraisal for paving investment under the Medium-
size Cities project of 12%. For being an engineering loan, no estimate was made for the Salvador under
the Pilot Metro project at appraisal.
26



Tamandar6, Colorado, and Juiz de Fora (Table 4.3). This finding supports
observations by local residents about improvements in solid waste collection
services after the completion of the projects. Engineering inspections revealed
that in project areas where cleanliness is only fair-Petrolina, Juazeiro and
Natal, for instance-there are no public collection points equipped with
containers where residents and others can bring garbage for collection.
4.19 Air quality and fire risk: Expert assessments rated this as excellent in
five cities (Table 4.3). The most dramatic improvement, which results directly
from project investment in paving, is the reduction of atmospheric dust particles.
Conditions with respect to fire risks are also rated excellent in eight and good in
the remainder. This finding confirms safety in these areas with respect to basic
norms of land use and setback as far as the propagation of fire and access of
fire fighting equipment is concerned.
Table 4.3 Environmental conditions: expert assessment
City:            Cleanliness   air        fire risk    traffic      noise      trees and
- project area   of public     pollution               conditions   pollution  green
areas                                                        areas
Fortaleza        Good          fair        good        good         fair      fair
_- Parqe Potira_______________________
Recife           Fair          fair        good        fair         fair       poor
-Casa Amarela
Salvador         Good          excellent    excellent    good       fair      fair
- Antonio Balbino
*Petrolina       Fair          excellent      excellent    good     good      fair
- Vila Moc6
Juazeiro         Fair          excellent    excellent    good       good       poor
- Alto do Cruzeiro
*Natal           Fair          excellent    excellent    excellent  good      fair
- Quintas
*Aracajui        Good          good        excellent    good        good       good
- _ _de Forte
*Propri-         Poor          good        good        good         fair      fair
- Bairro Am6rica
*Almirante       Good          good        excellent    poor        good       good
Tamandar6
- Lamenha
Grande
*Colorado        Excellent     excellent    excellent    excellent  excellent  excellent
- Colorado
*Julz de Fora    Good          good        excellent    excellent      excellent  fair
- Santa Efigenia
Note: * best practice cases.
Impacts are given one of four ratings: excellent, good, fair, poor.
Source: Impact Evaluation Study's expert observations of project sites 1995-96.
4.20   Traffic: Increased access to project areas could be expected to worsen
traffic conditions, but in fact poor conditions prevail only in Almirante Tamandare,
where heavy vehicles now pass through an area that was formerly inaccessible
(Table 4.3). Traffic management measures are necessary to avoid increasing
27



accidents in this area. In all other cities except for Recife, traffic conditions in
project areas are rated good or excellent. Even though-traffic has grown in all
these areas, it is still at levels far below busier parts of the respective cities.
4.21  Noise: Following the project interventions, noise levels from traffic and
loud music have increased but still to acceptable levels (Table 4.3). In
comparative terms for the residents, the changes may have been significant,
however, given the lack of movement and extreme quiet of the pre-project
conditions.
4.22  Green areas: Finally, with respect to tree planting and green areas,
impacts are less than desired (Table 4.3). Only one area, in Colorado, was rated
excellent in this regard, for having open green squares within the site and regular
tree planting along all streets. Other cities whose areas were rated good were
Almirante Tamandare and Aracaju, where careful attention is paid to maintaining
trees planted in public areas. Poor conditions are reported in Recife and
Juazeiro, whose project areas remain almost totally devoid of greenery, either in
the form of open spaces or trees. The study concludes that more attention needs
to be paid to 'greening' neighborhood improvements of this kind.
HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
4.23  Enlargements: For most cities in the Northeast region, local residents
informed that there had been little enlargement of individual dwelling units since
the completion of the projects (Table 4.4). Apart from the slow growth of
personal incomes in that region since 1989, the fixed geometry of what were fully
occupied sites does not permit much expansion, except costly vertical
construction. The exceptions were in Aracaju, and Propria, both cities of the state
of Aracajui, a Northeastem outlier with the lowest incidence of urban poverty in
that region. Aracaju residents report that many houses have been enlarged,
some even gaining an additional floor. In the richer South and Southeast regions
of the country, local residents of all cities report enlargement of housing units on
the sites. Interestingly, in both Colorado and Almirante Tamandare, residents
mentioned that a few newcomers first built new and larger houses soon after the
improvements. Later, existing residents emulated these efforts, adding rooms to
their own dwellings.
4.24 Building materials: The use of better building materials for housing was
triggered by the projects, but with varied impacts across cities (Table 4.4). In
best practice cities of the Northeast especially, more permanent materials are
used today than before the projects. Thus traditional rustic materials-known in
the region as 'taipa' which is a mixture of mud and wood-now give way to brick
and concrete construction. A similar phenomenon occurred in Colorado in the
South, but the traditional material used in that region was wood. No change of
material is reported for Fortaleza, Juazeiro, Almirante Tamandare and Juiz de
Fora where, according to local residents, houses have long used permanent
materials. The two cases where traditional materials are still widely used and
28



where there has been little progress with more permanent materials are Recife
and, surprisingly Natal. In both cases, severe unemployment and little growth of
personal incomes were factors in the lack of house improvement observed.
Table 4.4 Housing Improvements
City:             Size of housing     Kind of building materials   Price of housing units"
- project area    units                used
Fortaleza         Same                Same                       Increase
- Parque Potira                       - permanent materials before  - especially along main road
Recife            Same                Same                        Decrease
- Casa Amarela                        - rustic materials (taipa')  - especially units on slopes
used
Salvador          Same                 More pernanent            Increase
- Antonio Balbino                                                - especially along main
streets
*Petrolina        Same                More permanent             Increase
- Vila Moc6                           - including reinforced     - doubled since the project
concrete
Juazeiro          Same                Same                        Increase
- Alto do Cruzeiro   - many small houses   - permanent materials before  - significant increases
^Natal            Same                Same                       Increase
- Quintas                             - some permanent, some
rustic
-Aracaju          Increase            More permanent             Increase
- 18 de Forte     - extra rooms, floors   - rustic materials no longer    - significant increases
used
*Propna           Increase            More permanent             Increase
- Bairro Amrnca    - many houses      - rustic materials no longer
enlarged            used
*Almirante        Increase            Same                        Increase
Tamandare         - but some favelas    - permanent materials before  - along main road especially
- Lamenha         develop
Grande
*Colorado         Increase             More pennanent            Increase
- Colorado        - newer, larger     - many wooden houses       - dramatic increases
houses              before
*Juiz de Fora     Increase            Same                        Increase
- Santa Efigenia    - larger on average    - permanent materials before
Notes:
* best practice cases.
estimates based upon reports by local residents themselves.
Source: Impact Evaluation Study's Group Interviews of Beneficiaries 1995-96.
4.25 Property values: Residents were unanimous-except in Recife-that
the value of their houses is much higher today than before the projects (Table
4.4). The prices of well-located units along main roads increased most.
Remembering past prices in Brazil's inflationary environment is impossible and
residents' assessments of historical housing values are mostly based upon
affordability. Data on house prices are easily accessible now, though, given the
stable monetary unit of real and familiarity of most residents with recent real
29



estate transactions in their areas.15 The only reported case of falling house
values was for the project area in Recife, where units on increasingly unstable
slopes had devalued sharply in recent years.
LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
4.26  Employment creation: Only residents in one city-Juazeiro-report that
employment opportunities within the project area have improved since the
project interventions. This was not due to the projects, however, but to a
program to stimulate micro-industries through a very large local community
center called the Casa do Menor (Table 4.5). In all the remaining cities but one-
Recife-local residents confirm that very little employment is available today in
what still are and always were predominantly residential areas. In this respect,
residents see little difference between the opportunities available in their area,
from those available in other residential districts of town. In short, employment
opportunities in these as well as other areas, are more dependent upon the
overall conditions of the urban, regional and national economies. At the time of
the evaluation team visits, employment prospects were only modest in all regions
of the country, as reflected in the general pessimism of the responses of local
residents. Project induced employment creation within project areas has
nevertheless been negligible.
4.27 Access to employment elsewhere: Access to other centers of
employment is reportedly easier today than before the projects in nine of the
cities visited (Table 4.5). In Almirante Tamandare, for instance, residents were
particularly enthusiastic about better and more frequent bus services that made
daily commuting to the center of Curitiba feasible for low income travelers for
the first time. Previously, would-be commuters would have to walk more than 40
minutes along unpaved streets to the nearest bus stop. Improved access is
important for local residents in Juazeiro for them to seize opportunities offered by
a booming regional economy based upon irrigation by the Sao Francisco River
Valley. Two exceptions to the improved access were Petrolina and Recife: in
Petrolina, local residents always had good access to jobs before the project; in
Recife, unemployed people among local residents expressed their pessimism
about the downturn in the labor market of that city as a whole.
4.28 Commercial activity: Local commerce improved in eight cities following
the project interventions notably in the form of local shops, bars and pharmacies
(Table 4.5). In Aracaju, a new supermarket is now operating on the project site.
Residents' recall that housing was more affordable either it terms of rental or periodic installment
payments-before the projects than today, concluding that housing today is currently more costly and
valuable. While their assessment is what one would expect following project improvements, falling
incomes making housing relatively more expensive, may have led some residents to infer rising house
values when none may have in fact occurred. The IER recognizes this an a risk of error that inevitably
goes with a historical perspective of values in Brazil's volatile hyper-inflationary climate until the recent
past.
30



These effects cannot be attributed to the project alone, since commercial
success depends primarily upon the buying power of the residents.
Nevertheless, as improvements in the majority of the project areas occurred
soon after completion of project infrastructure, the latter may be a contributing
factor. In three cities, residents report no change to local commerce. In Recife,
this reflects the overall lack of improvement in the area. In Juazeiro and
Colorado, it reflects the proximity of the sites to the main commercial areas of
the respective cities.
Table 4.5 Impact upon economic development
City:                 Employment opport-    Access to jobs outside  Local commerce
- project area        unities within area   area
Fortaleza             Same                  Improved              Improved
- Parque Potira       - still few jobs in area  - in center of Fortaleza   - more shops
Recife                Worse                 Worsened              Same
- Casa Amarela        - fewer jobs than before   - fewer jobs in general    - nearest supermarket
6km
Salvador              Same                  Improved              Improved
- Antonio Balbino     - still little work in area    - buses make it easier    - new bakers and bars
*Petrolina            Same                  Same                  Improved
- Vila Moc6           - no new jobs in area  - access was easy    - many new small shops
before
Juazeiro              Improved              Improved              Same
Alto do Cruzeiro     - micro-industries in area  - to irrigation projects
*Natal                Same                  Improved              Improved
- Quintas             - still no work in area  - to other parts of city  - more shops
*Aracaju              Same                  Improved              Much improved
- 18 de Forte         - still difficult to find work  - to industrial estate  - supermarket opened
-Propria              Same                  Improved              Much improved
- Bairro Am6rica      - still no jobs in area                     - more bars and shops
-Almirante Tamandar6  Same                  Much improved         Much Improved
- Lamenha Grande      - few jobs in area    - by bus to Curitiba  - new shops and
pharmacy.........
*Colorado             Same                  Improved              Improved
- Colorado            - still no jobs in area  - to outside of town  - some new shops
Juiz de Fora*         Same                  Improved              Same
- Santa Efignia       - still few jobs in area  - easier joumey to work   - no new commerce
Note: * best practice cases.
Source: Impact Evaluation Study's group interviews of beneficiaries 1995-96.
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
4.29 Before and after the projects: With respect to possible social impacts of
the projects, the evaluation team discussed a series of questions with local
residents. The team asked about community life in improved areas before and
after the projects, not only as far as organized groups are concerned, but also
with respect to the spirit of community and sense of belonging to the
neighborhood. Questions about family life tried to elicit comments about the
stability of the family unit and raising of children in the area. Inquiries about
children's health probed for evidence of the reduced incidence of contagious
infections typically associated with unsanitary urban conditions. Finally,
31



questions about public safety-a priority issue in Brazil's urban areas today-
sought to clarify whether residents felt safer and knew of less crime occurring,
and to gather evidence about the level of policing in these areas.
4.30 Community life: Formal community organization is stronger and the
residents' sense of belonging is greater in seven of the cities (Table 4.6). In most
of these cases, residents refer to more intense activities of their Community-
based organization (CBO) which now acts like a pressure group on behalf of the
community (details: Chapter 6). Community life is weaker in Recife however,
where neighborhood neglect leads residents to suspect where the loyalties of the
CBO lie. In Propria, an existing CBO was disbanded when residents realized that
they could easily gain direct access to municipal authorities in this small town.
Colorado interestingly never had a CBO, and organized community life
practically does not exist in the project area, the only one visited by the
evaluation team that does not have a specific neighborhood name. The group
discussion with the evaluation team itself had to be held on a sidewalk for lack of
an other meeting place. The small scale of the town of Colorado appears to allow
individual contacts to work well, removing the need for formal community level
arrangements.
4.31  Family life: According to local residents, experience of changes in family
life varies among the cities visited (Table 4.6). They considered it better or much
better in Salvador, Petrolina, Juazeiro and Colorado, with less violence, less
divorce, and fewer abandoned street kids. In short, family life has become more
stable. On the other hand, in Natal, Aracaju and Propria, local residents reported
almost exactly the opposite, with more divided families and juvenile delinquency.
With so many factors determining the quality of family life-notable income and
employment, level of schooling among them-it is not possible to isolate impacts
due specifically to the projects. Interestingly, residents in Fortaleza and Recife
were reluctant to talk about this issue with the evaluation team, feeling that this
was not a matter to discuss with strangers.
4.32 Children*s' health: Overall, conditions are better, with dramatic
improvements in two cases (Table 4.6). In Petrolina, the incidence of skin and
intestinal infections dropped rapidly after the paving and servicing of the area. In
Almirante Tamandare, there have been fewer respiratory ailments among
children since street paving reduced atmospheric dust in the area. In two
exceptional cases, children's' health is reportedly worse. In Natal, domestic
effluent is disposed directly into a local river where children play. In Propria,
inadequate street cleaning leaves garbage to pile up in open areas, where local
children easily acquire worm infections.
4.33  Public safety: Notwithstanding a national trend of increasing urban
violence, residents of six areas believe the neighborhoods are safer today than
before the projects (Table 4.6). Among reasons given are the existence of fewer
firearms in Petrolina and fewer known cases of violent crime in Salvador and
Juazeiro. In other cities, residents simply report feeling safer, without specifying
precisely why. On the other hand, residents from Fortaleza, Recife, Almirante
Tamandare and Natal report a worsened security situation, reflecting increasing
32



crime in metropolitan areas generally, as well as a specific pocket of drug-related
crime within the project area in Natal. The impact upon Almirante Tamandare,
where the project ended the former isolation of the target area, was to introduce
the neighborhood to typically metropolitan problems of Curitiba not only in terms
of crme, but also worsening traffic accidents. In this context, the reported
reduction of crime by residents of the project area in Salvador was somewhat
unexpected.
Table 4.6 Impact upon social conditions
city:         community life    family life         Children's'       public safety     policing
- project area                                      health
Fortaleza      Better             (no comment)      Better             Worse             Same
- Parque       - CBO more                           - general          - violent crime up   - practically
Potira         actve                                improvement                          absent
Recife         Worse              (no comment)      Same               Worse             Same
- Casa         - CBO weaker                         - respiratory      - slope accidents;  - non-existent as
Amarela        and patemalistic_                    allergies common   regular homicides   before
Salvador       Much better        Much better       Better             Better            Worse
- Antonio      - CBO acts as     -family life more    - diarrhea less  - less crime today   - non-existent
Balbino        pressure group     stable            common
*Petrolina     Much better        Better            Much better        Better            Better
- Vila Moco    - CBO acts as a    - now more stable  - fewer skin and    - fewer firearms    - frequent patrols;
pressure group                       intestinal infect-   today           none before
ions
-Juazeiro      Much better        Better            Better             Better            Better
- Alto do      - community tes    - fewer street kids  - diarrhea less  - violent crime is    - some police
Cruzeiro     _ stronger                              common           less               patrols
*Natal         Better             Worse             Worse              Worse             Same
- Quintas      - stronger sense    - more family    - intestnal        - area is more    - non-existent
of comrmunity     violence          disease common   dangerous
*.Aracaj J     Much better        Same              Better             Better            Much better
- 18 de Forte    - CBO more       - juvenile delin-    - diarrhea less  - crime is less;  - police post
active            quency common    common              area feels safer  vwithin area
*Proprih       Worse              Worse             Worse              Better            Much better
- Bairro       - CBO disbanded   - families more    - more cases of    - area is safer   - police post
America                           divided           worms                                within area
*Almlrante     Much better        Worse             Much better        Worse             Same
Tamandare      - CBO set up for   - lack of respect    - fewer intestinal   - more crime and   - still very thin on
- Lamenha      the first time     for older         and respiratory    traffic accidents   the ground
Grande  - -                     _members        ---problems
*Colorado      Same               Better            Better             Same              Much better
- Colorado     - no CBO, nor                                           - area is still safe   - regular policing
name of area
*Juiz de Fora   Same              Sarme             Better             Better            Better
- Santa        - CBO still weak                                        - area is now     - some policing
Eflg6nia                                                               safer than before   now; none before
Note: * best practice case
Source: Impact Evaluation Study's group interviews of beneficiaries 1995-96.
4.34    Policing: Changed public safety correlates with policing of these areas
(Table 4.6). In five of the six cases with better security--Petrolina, Juazeiro,
Aracaju, Propria and Juiz de Fora--residents report better policing of their areas.
In Aracaju and Propria, for instance, permanent police posts have been
operating in the project areas since project completion. This impact is less
strongly felt in metropolitan areas such as Fortaleza, Recife and Curitiba (of
which Almirante Tamandar6 is a dormitory suburb).
33



I



5. Decentralizing Urban Service Provision
Thanks to the projects, municipalities strengthened their own
management ofproject preparation, evaluation and procurement.
They also simplified the regulatoryframeworkforproject approvals.
In consolidating their 'project culture" in these ways, municipalities
seized the opportunity to play a bigger role in decentralized urban
service provision after the federal government withdrew firom the
sector. On the other hand, there were only modest impacts upon
urban policy at the local level, which still has to fill the gap left by
federal retrenchment. Nevertheless, municipalities developed strong
ownership of the projects, even where the basic concept was not
their own. Local ownership went deep enough in some cases to
ensure smooth transfers of the projects between adversaries at
times ofpolitical succession at the municipal level. In the long run,
decentralization such as this contributes to the sustainability of
urban improvements in Brazil by helping to ensure continuity of
service provtsion.
FRAMEWORK OF EVALUATION
5.1    Why focus upon decentralization: The study considers decentralization
of responsibilities for urban service provision to municipalities as a significant
dimension of the institutional development (ID) impacts of the projects.16 ID
impacts by themselves had no direct bearing upon the pace and nature of
Brazil's decentralization-which marked a watershed in the country's political
history-but the projects did help municipalities become effective partners in
decentralization. An intended outcome of these operations was to help
municipalities develop effective and efficient management of urban service
provision within a project friendly local regulatory framework. Effective
decentralization of key responsibilities for urban service provision-particularly
with less federal and state government activity in this field-is crucial for the
sustainability of urban improvements.
5.2   Broad concepts of institution and ID: It is important to clarify the broad
concepts of ID and institutions used in this study, as there is still no consensus
among authors about the meaning of these terms. According to one definition,
"institution encompasses entities at the local or community level, project
management units, parastatals, line agencies in government, and so on"; in
This study uses a broad concept of ID, as a process of changing rights, obligations and incentives of the
principal players-govemments, private sector, NGOs and beneficiary communities--in urban service
provision.
35



other words, institution is a synonym for an organization or agency (Israel 1987
p. 11). Another author defines institutions as: "factors affecting the relationship
among actors-especially government and private parties-and the structure of
incentives" (Kessides 1993 p. ix). Most commonly in Bank literature, institutions
are treated as organizations, government departments in particular (Brinkerhoff
1994 p. 137). This study nevertheless uses a broad definition and treats ID as
changing "rules of the game" and strengthening the actors' ability to deal with
them.17
5.3   Intended and  unintended  impacts: The IER  evidence of such
strengthening within municipal administrations, which enabled local governments
to fulfill greater responsibilities for urban service delivery as decentralization
progressed. This indirect project impact was unintended and could not have
been foreseen at the time the projects were appraised when the federal
government looked set to remain the principal player in urban service provision
in Brazil. The subsequent federal withdrawal from the sector (paras. 3.7-3.9)
provided an unexpected opportunity for stronger but indirect impacts at the local
municipal level.
HELPING MUNICIPALITIES DEVELOP A PROJECT CULTURE
5.4    Definition: The projects helped participating municipalities develop a
project culture, understood here as effective and efficient management of urban
service provision in a project friendly regulatory framework. Project culture helps
create specificity and organizational effectiveness within a municipality, enabling
it to formulate urban service goals more precisely and increase the intensity and
timing of its project efforts (Israel 1987. pp. 47-73). The study found evidence of
a project culture in three areas: (i) improved project preparation and evaluation
skills; (ii) more attention to procurement; and (iii) a project friendly regulatory
framework (Table 5.1). Unfortunately, project culture did  not extend  to
maintenance, which was found wanting in nearly all cities.
5.5    Evidence: Participants in the Brasilia workshop  expressed  some
skepticism about whether a project culture phenomenon is a permanent and
sustainable feature of municipal practice. With this in mind, the IER only reports
evidence of changes in practice sustained since the completion of the projects
more than seven years ago. In metropolitan cities of the Northeast, for instance,
local governments undertook economic evaluation of projects for the first time
and still apply it today. The municipality of Recife aimed to reduce urban service
deficits in different parts of the city in a systematic way, as done at project
appraisal. Both approaches enhance specificity. In a wide range of municipalities
7 The evaluation team's own expectations of local ID impacts were modest at the outset of the study. An
earlier review found that only one third of urban projects worldwide substantially met their ID objectives
(World Bank 1994 p. 37). Also, municipalities typically lack the specificity and competition characteristics
necessary to stimulate dynamic ID, according to one author (Israel 1987 p. 20).
36



in all regions, municipal management improved through the creation of in-house
technical teams for the first time, some of which later formed the nuclei of
permanent urban planning and research institutes mentioned earlier. These
results coincide with the declared project objectives of strengthening the
management capacities of the executing agencies.
Table 5.1 Indicators of a municipal project culture
project preparation    Procurement            project friendly
and evaluation skills    management           regulatory framework
Fortaleza              economic evaluation    Training of personnel   1979 and 1985 updating
used for the first time                       master plans
Recife                 aimed solving service  -
deficits systematical LL
Salvador               economic evaluation    Special unit set up     simplification of project
used for the first time                       approvals
*Petrolina             project mgt team set up   Special unisetet up  update and simplification
for the first time                            of land use and tax
code.
Juazeiro              -                       Special unit set up     1983 update of 1954
building code
Natal                  project mgt team set up   -                    1989 new environmental
which later became                            protection laws
IPLANAT
*Aracaju               (still dependent upon  Procurement unit now    update of master plan.
consultants)           has its own staff for first
L                g~~~~~tme
*PropriA               city staff acquired own    Special unit set -up  -
engineers for first time
*AlmIrante Tamandar6  (still through the state)   all wori now done in-
house
*Colorado              city undertakes its own    (still through the state)    1989 simplification of tax
engineering work in-                          law
__-house.for the  first time  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -
*Juiz de Fora          project mgt team set up;  all work now done in-    simplified land use law.
later became IPLAN     house
Note: * best practice cases
Source: Impact Evaluation Key Informant Interviews 1995-96
5.6    Procurement: In most cities-seven18 out of eleven-in-house capacity
to manage procurement was enhanced as a result of the projects. Four of these
cities set up and staffed special procurement units within their municipal
administrations for the first time. After the projects, nearly all cities now manage
their own procurement affairs. Before the projects, most were dependent upon
state or federal agencies for these services. The evaluation expected that
transparent and locally accountable procurement practices would ensure more
efficient use of resources through lower contract prices for urban investments.
Concrete evidence of the results achieved by municipalities vis a vis alternative
la Salvador, Petrolina, Juazeiro, Aracaju, Propria, Almirante Tamandare, and Juiz de Fora.
37



arrangements proved difficult to gather. Brazil's past hyper-inflation makes
historic cost data opaque as far as real values are concerned. In hindsight, there
clearly is a need for unit values of contracts to be among monitoring indicators of
future municipal performance.
5.7   Regulatory framework: As a result of the projects, eight19 of the eleven
municipalities simplified regulations and local laws for project approval and
implementation. The municipalities of Fortaleza, Petrolina and Aracaju updated
city-planning laws. Petrolina and Colorado enacted entirely new property tax
laws as part of project implementation. Rather than pursue legislation through a
divided city council, however, Salvador preferred to simplify regulations for
approving urban development projects. Whichever path they now follow, most
project municipalities now have local regulatory frameworks that make it easier
to approve urban development projects.
5.8    Use of computers: In eight cities20 key informants reported intensified
application of computers to project management and other tasks since the
project interventions. In addition to computerizing municipal payroll and tax
administration-common today among local governments in Brazil-information
technology is typically applied to the financial management and implementation
supervision of urban investment projects in general. This is particularly for cost
and quantity controls during project executions as well as computer assisted
design for new projects. In larger cities such as Fortaleza and Salvador,
sophisticated digital mapping was used for the first time within the scope of the
projects themselves.
5.9   Sustainability: Through consolidating their project preparation and
evaluation skills, in-house management of contract bidding and awarding and
providing a project-friendly regulatory environment, municipalities are better able
to contribute to the sustained provision of urban services. This bodes well for the
future project performance. In the before-project context of centralization of
urban service responsibilities in the hands of the federal govemment,
municipalities had neither the opportunities nor the need to develop such skills.
Decentralization also encouraged the dissemination of project experiences.
Officials from Natal and Petrolina, for instance, have received many visitors from
other municipalities seeking advice and guidance on project management.
Municipalities in the southem regions of the country do not report similar city-to-
city exchanges, which nevertheless take place through state level agencies in
that part of the country.
19 Fortaleza, Petrolina, Salvador, Juazeiro, Natal, Aracaju, Colorado and Juiz de Fora.
20 Fortaleza, Petrolina, Salvador, Juazeiro, Natal, Almirante Tamandare, Colorado and Juiz de Fora.
38



URBAN POLICY MAKING AT THE LOCAL LEVEL
5.10   Urban institutes: The projects helped strengthen urban planning and
research capabilities within local government. Project management teams set up
in four cities-Petrolina, Natal, Colorado and Juiz de Fora-to handle the
projects, were the first experiences of staffing of this kind in these municipalities.
Urban planning and research institutes were established in Natal (IPLANAT) and
Juiz de Fora (IPPLAN-JF) as a direct result of the projects. Project staff in those
cities form the core personnel of these urban institutes. Both institutes are still
very active today, having produced city master plans as recently as 1994 and
1996 respectively. IPPLAN-JF, using the project experience, was able to plan
and implement a series of follow-on environmental and sanitation programs.
INPLANAT was instrumental in introducing participatory budgeting in Natal, as
one of the first such experiences in Brazil.
5.11 Modest impacts on urban policy making: After retrenchment at the
federal level during 1985-88, municipalities contacted by this study have done
little to fill the resulting urban policy gap. Written comments on this study from
Brazil confirmed that more needs to be done to simplify urban development
policy and make urban planning effective.22 In some cities, it is still not clear what
the underlying purpose of urban development policy should be; whether its
priority should be to support a strategy to address either efficiency or equity
goals in the terms discussed earlier in this report (details: Chapter 3).
5.12 Significant impact on cost recovery: At the level of project
management, however, there is evidence of a more aggressive local policy
stance toward cost recovery. In Fortaleza, Natal, Almirante Tamandare and
Colorado, for instance, IPTU (property) tax is levied on some of the areas
improved under the projects if not for the first time, then at a higher rate than
previously. The collection of user charges for street lighting and cleaning is now
routine and rigorous in the cities of Petrolina, Aracaju and Almirante Tamandare.
But in none of the cities is betterment tax charged to beneficiaries of the areas
improved. Incentives for municipalities to increase their own revenues through
these taxes may have been undermined by the provisions of the 1988
Constitution which guarantee a greater share of all public revenues for local
government.
21 Participatory budgeting is devolving budgetary authority to locally elected neighborhood councils, through
a process of consultation at various levels throughout the city (Peterson 1997 p. 17).
22 Suggestions include the simplification of land use legislation, dealing with land tenure problems in urban
areas, policies that focus upon the existing urbanized areas of cities and measures to halt environmental
and social deterioration.
39



ENABLING A BIGGER MUNICIPAL ROLE
5.13 New responsibilities for municipalities: The projects succeeded not
only in helping municipalities manage their existing functions befter, but also in
enabling them to fulfill new responsibilities that came with decentralization. When
the federal govemment canceled or curtailed many locally financed programs in
response to the fiscal crisis from 1982 onwards, the projects survived, albeit with
counterpart funding constraints, because of loan agreements with the Bank. At a
very difficult moment for the sector in Brazil, these operations therefore allowed
municipalities to demonstrate their ability to provide urban services in a more
autonomous way. Although important, this impact was unintended and was
achieved indirectly through the impacts upon a municipal project culture that
were discussed earlier.
5.14 Decentralization providing more services: Despite slower economic
growth, greater progress in urban service and housing provision was achieved in
Brazil during the 1980s-when municipal participation was also greater-than
during the 1970s. This is consistent with the paradigm of demand efficiency of
decentralized provision as reported in the literature, which contends that local
government can respond better to local preferences than central govemment
(Dillinger 1995. pp. 30-31). On the other hand, basic service needs of poor areas
of Brazilian cities are so obvious that a precise validation of demand may not be
necessary.23 The study cannot establish the validity of the pros and cons of
decentralization in these terms, but does note that the projects demonstrated the
municipalities' ability to be effective suppliers of urban services in the new
decentralized arrangements adopted in Brazil.
5.15 Countrywide impacts: There are significant ID impacts in both the
poorer and the richer regions of Brazil and also in larger and smaller cities.
Despite considerable income disparities between the Northeast and Southeast
where the share of the poor among urban households is 42.6% and 18.8%
respectively, Northeastern Natal and Southeastern Juiz de Fora are both able to
operate successful urban institutes that were established under the projects.
Even small project cities such as Propria (pop. 21,705) and Colorado (pop.
15,725) continue to benefit from in-house project preparation and evaluation
capacity established the first time, thanks to the projects.
23 This kind of situaton led one critic of decentralization to argue that: "In most developing countries, the
problem (of demand efficiency) is not to reveal the fine differences in preferences between jurisdictions
but to satisfy the basic needs, which are, at least in principle, well known, and need not be revealed. The
potential welfare gains (of decentralization) associated with a better match of supply and demand are not
large" (Prud'homme 1993. p.7).
40



DECENTRALIZATION AS A FACTOR OF PERFORMANCE
5.16 Dimensions of ownership: Decentralization also gave municipalities the
opportunity to demonstrate stronger ownership than was originally expected for
these federally inspired operations. This section reviews project ownership in
terms of the four usual dimensions: (i) locus of initiative--whether local or
elsewhere; (ii) level of intellectual conviction of local policy makers; (iii)
expression of political will by local leaders; and (iv) efforts towards consensus
building among stakeholders (Johnson and Wasty 1993).
5.17 Willingness to assume ownership: The varied ways that municipalities
took over ownership depended more on local political circumstances than project
design. Local governments were rarely the originators of the ideas behind the
projects. The study therefore asks how ownership developed at the municipal
level, following the withdrawal of the federal government, the original owner.
Study findings indicate that municipalities are willing and able to assume a strong
commitment to project ideas that are not theirs, perhaps because the projects
addressed basic needs for low-income populations, needs which were
understood and unquestioned by local officials.
5.18   Consensus building: At the municipal level, the projects fostered
consensus building efforts in six of the cities visited (Table 5.2). In four of
these-Fortaleza, Petrolina, Juazeiro and Juiz de Fora-intellectual conviction
was first forged at the technical level through small but cohesive professional
project teams. Written comments on an earlier draft of this report from Juiz de
Fora confirmed that project teams had to make great efforts to win over not only
local politicians, but also the staff of traditional municipal departments who felt
they were bypassed by the project. The team in Juazeiro, on the other hand,
included the city mayor himself. With a united front, teams such as these would
try to convince their local politicians of the merits of their project. Especially in
large cities prone to local political conflicts, the forging of such a technocratic
conviction is key to ensuring the successful implementation of such programs. In
remaining cities-all but one in the Northeast region-consensus building was
not considered necessary by key informants. In these cases, there already
existed what the literature calls a "dominant coalition" of powerful city mayors
and their allies.24 Natal, nevertheless, tried to build consensus with local
communities by setting up a series of district councils to oversee urban
investments in different parts of the city.
5.19   Transfer   between   administrations:   During   implementation,
responsibility for the projects was transferred between succeeding municipal
administrations three times, in 1982, 1985 and 1989. Most cities report smooth
transfers of project files and databases, and the retention of key project staff
24 This was the case of Natal and Aracaju where powerful city mayors could effectively impose solutions
without having to convince their weak adversaries. In the case of Salvador, there was conflict between
city and state level govemments, but both parties shared a conviction about the need for the project and
worked to ensure that it was completed as planned.
41



(Table 5.2). Only three of these cases, however-Propria, Almirante Tamandard
and Juiz de Fora-involved political adversaries. Evidently, smooth transfers
between adversaries are a sign of strong local ownership. On the other hand,
conflictive transfers occurred in the three metropolitan cities of the Northeast as
well as Juazeiro. No conflict led to a complete breakdown of dialogue over the
projects. More typically, conflict built upon incoming authorities' distrust of their
predecessors and questioning of basic project objectives-initially treated as a
compact between the Bank by their adversaries. For their part, outgoing
authorities might withhold project information from their successors. Project
technical teams can be disbanded at the initiative of either the incoming or
outgoing administration. Conflictive transfers of this kind in Recife delayed
project implementation by at least six months.
Table 5.2 Indicators of Project Ownership by Municipalities
Consensus building     Transfers between      Origin of project ideas
efforts                administrations
Fortaleza              Yes                    Conflictive            Federal govemment
(through project
technical team)   . .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .       ___________
Recife               _None                    Conflictive            Federal govemment
Salvador               None                   Conflictive             Federal govemment
(conflict between state
and  municipality~) .. . . .  .  .   .  .    .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .
e-etrolina            Yes                    Smooth                  Federal govemment
(technical team       (same political group)
convinced  politicians)                    -  -  -  -  -  -  - _____________
Juazeiro               Yes                    Conflictive             Local
(led by city mayor who
was an engineer)
Natal                  None                   Smooth                 Federal govemment
(powerful city mayor and (same political group)
dominant coalition)
-Aracaju               None                   Smooth                  Federal govemment
(powerful city mayor and  (same political group)
dominant coalition)
*PropRi     -          Yes                    Smooth                  Local
(through the city council)  (between political
adversaries)
*Almirante Tamandare   Yes                    Smooth                 Local
(with the assistance of   (between political
_ sate government)       adversaries)
*colorado              None                   Smooth                  Local
(unnecessary: existence  (same political group)
of dominant coalition)
*Juiz de Fora          Yes                    Smooth                 Local
(through project       (between political
technical team)        adversaries)
Note: * best practice cases.
Source: Impact Evaluation Key Informant Interviews 1995-96
42



5.20   Origin of project ideas: Six cities in the Northeast region correctly report
that the project concept came from the federal government.25 By contrast, key
informants from cities in the southem regions consistently confirmed local
participation in the formulation of the project ideas. They understood that the
lending operations allowed their own ideas to be implemented. The lack of local
origin to the project ideas in the Northeast did not make municipalities there less
committed to the projects themselves. Local political leaders there are willing to
commit themselves to the projects of "neutral" third parties such as the federal
government or the Bank, but they can be hostile to implementing those
associated with their local adversaries.
25The two Northeastem cities reporting the local origin of the project ideas-Juazeiro and Propria--are both
remote from their respective state capitals and their officials had less contact with outsiders involved in
project preparation.
43






6. Poor Residents Learn the Rules of the Game
The projects had important side effects in strengthening community-
based organizations (CBOs), thereby enabling residents to leam
about urban service provision. As convenient interlocutors for local
government and usefiul monitors of project progress, CBOs became
empowered through the projects. Women played an important role in
this. None of the local communities knew of the projects during their
planning phase, so that learning the rules of urban service provision
occurred during implementation. City councilors played a big
participatory role in this. Residents' newly acquired knowledge
pointed to municipal government as being ultimately responsible for
urban service provision. In this way, the projects indirectly
encouraged residents to hold municipalities accountable for these
services with little incentive for self-help efforts. Nevertheless,
revitalized community participation in Brazil augurs well forfuture
project perforrnance and sustainability, through increased project
control and commitment by primary stakeholders, local residents
themselves.
FRAMEWORK OF EVALUATION
6.1   A project side effect: Was community participation a factor in enhancing
project impacts, or a side effect of the projects themselves? Participation was not
a specific design feature of these projects, nor was such participation a formal
Bank requirement for appraising these operations. Since then, however, Bank
sponsored studies have strongly recommended including the participation of final
beneficiaries in all stages of project development to improve performance and
enhance commitment. In this way, greater community participation can lead to
the long-term sustainability of urban improvements. From an impact evaluation
perspective, however, this study looks at evidence of participation as an
unintended side-effect of the projects, rather than as an input to project
performance itself.
6.2   Participation as a process: This study follows the World Bank
Participation Sourcebook in treating participation as "a process through which
stakeholders influence and share control over development initiatives and the
decisions and resources which affect them." (World Bank 1996 p. xi). For the
IER, stakeholders are mostly local residents organized as a community-based
organization (CBO). Their participation is voluntary. Both the theoretical
26 See the following references, for example: Baum 1985 pp. 479-480; World Bank 1992 pp. 93-97; World
Bank 1994a p.71; Schi0beler 1996; World Bank 1996 pp. 3-8.
45



framework and systematic empirical evidence of likely development benefits from
beneficiary participation are weak (Piccioto 1996. p. 5). Sometimes participation
is still treated-erroneously in the view of this study-as an end in itself rather
than a means to address the complex issues service provision to low income
communities.
6.3   Participatory research: The study incorporates participatory research
into its design. From its experience of the direct contacts made with beneficiary
communities in all the cities visited by the evaluation team, OED endorses the
conclusions of a recent Bank-sponsored study that this kind of research allows:
"the field worker to gain access (often for the first time) to a wealth of facts,
perspectives and insights from the community's and the staff's own store of
wisdom and experience." (Narayan 1996 pp. 141-2). Despite their varied
names27, CBOs contacted by this study have similar structures organized
bottom-up and community leaders elected by their members. Most hold regular
meetings to discuss collective problems and aspirations about their
neighborhood, such as street paving and local bus services.
6.4   Key concepts used: The study regards urban service provision as
having many characteristics of a public good, whose benefits are available jointly
to a large number of people and from whom individuals cannot be excluded. It
uses Hirschman's concepts of exit and voice. Exit is understood as the deliberate
withdrawal of residents from their relationship with a development process. Voice
is seen as a direct and informative way of alerting (usually senior) partners in
that relationship to problems that arise (Hirschman 1986. pp. 78-79). The study
also refers to empowerment, as the greater use of the beneficiary's voice in
decision-making processes (Sch(ibeler 1996. p.34).
STRENGTHENING COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATIONS
6.5   Prior weakness: Before the projects, CBOs existed in most of the areas
visited but they were very weak and inactive according to local residents
interviewed by the team. Residents complained that pre-project CBOs had no
agenda of activities or regular meetings and that leadership was volatile and
untrustworthy. In these unimproved neighborhoods there was a lack of support
for CBOs. Except every four years at election time, local government tended to
ignore them. The sorry state of CBOs echoes earlier studies of other countries,
which found that both authorities and residents themselves gave less importance
to community organizations of urban beneficiaries of projects, who act merely as
consumers of services. This contrasts with the closer attention generally given to
extension and other community groups in rural areas, regarded by officials and
project managers as organizations of producers (Moser 1987).
27 Among those met were: Clube de Maes e Amigos de Alto de Cruzeiro (Juazeiro); Associacao
Comunitaria de Corrego de Areia (Recife); and Associagao de Proprietarios, Amigos e Moradores do
Distrito Colonia Lamenha (Almirante Tamandare, Parana).
46



6.6    Sudden strength: Project implementation represented a sharp break
with past neglect and helped revive and strengthen CBOs in these
neighborhoods. Engineers, workmen and community workers from local
government and contractors had to establish an "official" presence in these
areas for the first time. Residents from Fortaleza, for instance, recall the arrival
of engineers-whether from the municipality or a private firm, they did not
know-inquiring about the best place to establish a site depot to safely store
their equipment and materials. First contacts such as these are naturally directed
toward existing CBOs.28
6.7    Empowerment: Local residents see empowered CBOs as a forum to
discuss interests affecting the neighborhood as a whole and an instrument to
pressure relevant authorities for solutions that satisfy these interests. Residents
in Petrolina and Natal were clear about the sudden usefulness of their local CBO
once the projects were underway. They noted that CBO meetings became more
regular, better attended and most importantly, "there was something to talk
about at last". In Almirante Tamandare, local residents explained how the
neighborhood CBO came to life with the project works. Residents in Salvador
explained how CBOs now act more like pressure groups seeking improvements
to their areas. Unintended impacts of these projects are therefore to encourage
esteem for and confer credibility upon CBOs. This is a way for local residents to
find a voice not only in the implementation of the project, but in many other
decisions affecting their area.
6.8    Modest impact in metropolitan cities and small towns: Project side-
effects affecting CBOs were less strongly felt at the two ends of the spectrum of
urban demographics in Brazil, namely large metropolitan areas and small towns.
Metropolitan scale administrations are inevitably complex with numerous
potential points of community:government contact, making a dialogue with CBOs
a complicated process. Residents of peripheral areas located 10-12 kilometers
from respective city halls in Recife and Fortaleza understandably felt their voice
to be remote from  centers of decision.29 In Salvador, where the project
neighborhood was located less than four kilometers from the city center, local
residents felt less alienated. CBOs do not thrive in the small towns of Colorado30
(pop. 15,600) and Propria (pop. 21,900), but for different reasons. In both places,
28 Local residents esteem for their CBO in Petrolina grew when engineers first came to a community
meeting to seek residents' views about the best sequence of streets to follow in improving pavement in
the area.
29 An added difficulty in Fortaleza is the peculiar location of the project site across an unresolved border
demarcaton between the neighboring municipalities of Fortaleza and Caucaia, so that neither
administration assumes full responsibility for the area. This remains an important institutional bottleneck
that, in hindsight, was not properly addressed by the project.
30 The project area in Colorado was the only one visited that did not have a specific neighborhood name.
Residents there found that many of the participation issues raised by the team to be fascinating, but not
relevant to their area or town.
47



residents did not see the need for a formal community organization, when the
access by individuals to local officials was easy.
CONTRIBUTION OF WOMEN
6.9   Women's predominant role: Women play the principal role in
strengthening community organizations in their areas. In all group discussions
with beneficiary groups, the leading participants were women, even though men
were often present. The women were generally more able and willing to provide
information, particularly about the project impacts upon family finances after
extra local tax liabilities, for instance. In Juazeiro, Salvador and Almirante
Tamandare, working women-often the main breadwinners where
unemployment among men is high-particularly value child-care services
provided by many CBOs after the projects.31
6.10 Men's reticence: Many local men were openly skeptical about the
usefulness of their involvement with CBOs. In the Northeast some men informed
the evaluation team that community participation meetings were essentially a
"women's business". This conclusion appears to come from the discomfort some
men said they felt about questioning that goes on in such meetings, tantamount
to prying for some of them. This was especially true in connection with questions
about family income that come up when meetings tried to fix the prices of CBO
services and subscriptions at affordable levels for the members, for instance.
This view was shared by women. In Fortaleza, women affirmed moreover that
men were uninterested in home and neighborhood improvements. For these
reasons, women take the lead and assumed financial responsibility for
involvement in CBOs and become the principal force behind the empowerment
and voice of community organizations.
LEARNING THE RULES OF URBAN SERVICE PROVISION
6.11  First steps: Searching for information from local govemment about
urban service provision through CBOs was at the heart of the early stages of
participatory development that in the project areas. Typically in the cities visited,
CBO leaders sought more information directly from city hall as soon as they
leamed about the projects, generally only at start-up. Through local meetings
called by community leaders, residents discovered more details about the
projects themselves. In this way, they leamed about the rules and responsibilities
of urban service provision in Brazil through a process of de facto civic education
instigated by their CBO. Neither residents nor local officials reported cases of
31 Between 1980 and 1990, the proportion of Brazilian women who were economically active rose from
26.6% to 35.5%, giving women a much bigger economic role in all regions of the country. Childcare
services are an incentive for women to support cBos. Without them, many women would be unable to
work.
48



significant changes in project design or execution, however, as a result of
community participation and consultation.
6.12 Moments of learning: In none of the cities visited did longer-term
residents know about the projects during the planning stage (Table 6.1). In
Aracaju, Almirante Tamandar6, Colorado and Juiz de Fora, beneficiaries told the
evaluation team that they only learned about the projects when laborers and
equipment moved on-site to begin work.32 Of course, the projects were planned
under Brazil's military govemment, when community consultation was not
considered a priority. This meant that most learning for residents took place
during the implementation phase of the projects.
6.13 Means of learning: Apart from meetings, a remarkably wide range of
means facilitate the flow of information between the community and local
government (Table 6.1). The most common method, used in eight of the cities
visited--all but Recife, Petrolina and Fortaleza--is through the participation of the
formal representatives of the residents, elected vereadores as city councilors are
known in Brazil.33 Democratization in Brazil in the 1980s favored a more
participatory approach by local politicians. CBOs themselves, as they channel
project information between residents and local governments, are an equally
important instrument of communication.34 In six cities residents cited election
campaigns as key moments of participation. Other means, such as newspapers,
fliers, loudspeaker vans and opinion polls were also used, but more sporadically.
The study found no evidence, from a beneficiary perspective, of the use of non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) or TV and radio as means of local
government:community communication over urban improvements.3536
6.14 Key things learned: By following project progress through their CBOs,
residents for the first time learned details about:
32 Interestingly, municipal officials consistently reported more participatory activities than local residents did
in all cities visited. In Aracaju and Recife, they referred to major public meetings in project areas which
longer-term residents could not recall having taken place.
33 Strengthening CBOs does not appear to have a substitute effect with respect to traditional electoral
responsibilities. On the contrary, solid CBOs become new instruments of articulation between political
representative and their electors. At the same time democracy and local elections-held in the state
capital cities for the first time in 1984--encourage CBO activities, especially during election campaigns.
The IES leamed of cases where vereadores began their political careers through the activities of CBOs.
34 The approach taken by CBOs toward local govemment is generally not conflictive. In no city visited did
the evaluation team find evidence of a breakdown of communications, resulting in protests, strikes or
other demonstrations by local residents.
35 Fortaleza hosts an important experiment in house-building and improvement through an association of a
Brazilian and a French NGO and the city government that involves significant community participation.
Infrastructure and service provision, however, is through conventional municipal and utility channels.
36 Bank guidelines called for NGO participation in project preparation only from 1988 onwards (OMS no.
5.30), after these projects were appraised.
49



*  urban service responsibilities of municipal, state and federal governments.
*  departmental responsibilities at the municipal level.
*  the relationship between private contractors and municipalities.
*  works implementation and materials used.
*  responsibilities for maintenance and operation.
It was especially for local residents to know where and to whom among
officialdom to address their claims for further attention. Thus residents leamed
the rules of urban service provision through a de facto process of civic education
among beneficiaries.37
HOLDING LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE
6.15 Community claims: Having learned about municipal responsibilities,
local residents held local governments accountable for urban service provision to
their areas. Some felt their neighborhood had as much a right to these services
as wealthier serviced parts of the city. Community claims for improved services
figured in elections for councilors (vereadores) and city mayor. Candidates would
generally trade promises for better services in return for the votes of residents.38
In group discussions with the team, more vociferous residents were able to
articulate their claims for better services clearly. Their frequent use of project
terms in discussions-such as procurement and maintenance, for instance-
indicates that they acquired, or at least consolidated, this skill through the project
experiences.
6.16 Lack of incentive for self-help: Placing urban service responsibility on
the shoulders of municipal government provides no incentive for communities
themselves to seek self-help solutions-called mutirao in Brazil-for improving
their urban living conditions. Local residents who had gained service
improvements, after all, did so without any direct inputs of their own. For these
reasons, the study found no evidence of self-help provision of urban services
stimulated by the projects. Mutirao solutions are applied in Fortaleza, but
principally for the provision of private housing goods. Infrastructure in these
cases remains a local government responsibility.
6.17 Contrast with Indonesia: In this way, the Brazilian experience contrasts
with community provision of infrastructure-for which residents provide their
labor free-in low income areas of cities in Indonesia, known as kampungs
(World Bank 1995. pp. 52-61). In addition to the projects' own lack of incentives,
37 A major study of 800 households in Bangalore, India, concluded that an understanding of the rules of
the game by beneficiaries is a key toward better service levels (World Bank 1 994a. p. 71).
33 The relationship between promises of concrete results and political allegiance at the local level is
called clientelism in Brazil (Gay 1990 p. 657).
50



self-help do not flourish in higher income Brazil where urban improvements are
larger scale.39 Also Brazil does not have Indonesia's intricate hierarchy of
govemment that includes neighborhood and block units of local government
which are primarily responsible for organizing self-help efforts in that country.
39 A CBO approach to initiating cooperative self-help development activities is 'applicable in the most
poorly served, marginal low-income settlements" (Schobeler 1996. p. 49). This criterion would exclude
project areas covered by this IER. Although poor and inadequately served before the projects, they
nevertheless had regular street and subdivision patterns and were accepted as parts of their respective
cities.



Table 6.1 Indicators of Participation - community perspective
Timing:             Means:
city          Planning 1 Execution   City     City      CBos  | NGOs     Election  I TV/radio ' Newspapers '  Fliers    Loudspeaker   Opinion
- Project area   stage  I  stage    mayor i councilors I       I       I campaigns |        I            I         I   vans         p polls
Fortaleza                                                                                     I                    1
- Parque Potirs             * 
life                           -------                                                        - +----
- Cass Amarela                           i               *                                                   *            I
Salvador      ------                                                 
-Anton. Balbino            0                  0                             0                                                    I
Petrollna   ----t        -----        -          -----------               - i-- -------I--
-eVtna Mc6*
-r - --------      -       --- --        -                  --[       -            -----------
-Alto CruzeiroI0                                                        
- Allo Cnxzeinx   t   *I    *             I         I        I    *     I         I           I          I            I
________ ----------. - -------- ------- -----F--- -------  - -i-------+-----+-------- _-- __----
- Quintas                               Ig    0      I   *    I        I           I        I            I               _
-'AW  jE---- -               --------------+-I-   -------------------                                             -------I--1-            --
- 18 de Forte                                                        - **..
*Propria i                                                            
-B. Am6dca                          *   I    *                 I       I           I        I                      I             I
imirantb 
Tamandar6             :   *         *:        *                             *      :
- Lamenha G.          I                                               I          I       I           I        I             I        -
------------ -_t-- --- t------ r  ---- t------- r ----- 1-------- t------- -------- t-----
*Colorado~~~~                                  I         I        I               I           I__
- Colorado                .          0*  *                                  . *                          :            *  :            - 
- Colorado                                                     II  
*Julz do Fora        +         _I--F -                                                               -1
I                  I          I         I       I           I        I       .    I          I            I
Note: Blank cells indicate that there was no evidence of timing or means of participation.
Source: Impact Evaluation Study Group Interviews with Beneficiaries and Key Informant Interviews
52



BIBLIOGRAPHY
Baum, W.C. and Tolbert, Stokes M. 1985. Investing in Development: Lessons of
World Bank Experience. The World Bank, Oxford University Press, New York
Brinkerhoff, D.W. 1994. 'Institutional Development in World Bank projects:
analytic approaches and intervention designs' in: Public Administration and
Development. Volume 14, Issue No. 2, May 1994.
Cernea, Michael M. 1988. Nongovernmental Organizations and Local
Development. World Bank Discussion Paper No. 40, Washington D.C.
De G6es, Paulo 1996. Rural Urban and Regional Migration in Brazil.
Background paper commissioned for this study, Rio de Janeiro.
Dillinger, William 1994. Decentralization and its Implications for Urban Service
Delivery. Urban Management Program, World Bank, Washington D.C.
Dillinger, William 1995. Better Urban Services: Finding the Right Incentives. A
World Bank Publication, Washington D.C.
Estache, Antonio (ed.) 1995. Decentralizing Infrastructure: Advantages and
Limitations. World Bank Discussion Paper no. 290, Washington D.C.
Gay, Robert 1990. 'Community Organization and Clientelist Politics in
contemporary Brazil: a case study from suburban Rio de Janeiro' in: Intemational
Joumal of Urban and Regional Science. Vol. 14, pp. 648-666.
Heaver, R. and A. Israel Country Commitment to Development Projects. World
Bank Discussion Paper No. 4, Washington D.C.
Hicks, James F. 1992. Decentralization and Reform of the State: Issues and
Options for Bank Assistance Strategy. EMENA Technical Department Regional
Discussion Paper, World Bank, Washington D.C.
Hirschman, Albert 0. 1986. "Exit and Voice: an Expanding Sphere of Influence"
in: Albert 0. Hirschman Rival Views of Market Society and Other Recent Essays.
Harvard University Press, Cambridge.
Inter-American Development Bank 1994. 'Fiscal Decentralization: the Search for
Equity and Efficiency' in: Economic and Social Progress in Latin America - 1994
Report. IDB, Washington D.C.
Israel, Arturo 1987. Institutional Development: Incentives to Performance. John
Hopkins Press for the World Bank, Baltimore.
53



Johnson, John H. and Sulaiman S. Wasty, 1993 "Borrower Ownership of
Adjustment Programs and the Political Economy of Reform" World Bank,
Washington D.C. draft.
Kessides, Chrstine 1993. Institutional Options for the Provision of Infrastructure.
World Bank Discussion Paper no. 212, Washington D.C.
Morra, Linda and Patrick Grasso Draft Guidelines for Impact Evaluation Studies.
World Bank Operations Evaluation Department, Washington D.C.
Moser, Caroline 1987. "Approaches to Community Participation in Urban
Development Programs in Third World Countries." in Michael Bamberger (ed)
Readings in Community Participation. Economic Development Institute of the
World Bank, Washington D.C.
Musgrave, R. and P. Musgrave 1984. Public Finance in Theory and Practice.
McGraw Hill, New York.
Narayan, Deepa 1996. Toward Participatory Research. World Bank Technical
Paper No. 307, Washington D.C.
Peterson, George E. 1997. Decentralization in Latin America: Learning through
Experience World Bank Latin America and Caribbean Studies Viewpoint,
Washington D.C.
Piccioto, Robert 1992. Participatory Development: Myths and Dilemnas World
Bank Policy Research Working Papers, Washington D.C.
Prud'homme, Remy 1994. On the Dangers of Decentralization. TWURD Policy
Research Paper, Washington D.C.
Rocha, Sonia 1996. On Urban Poverty: Policy Experiences in Brazil in the 80's.
Background paper commissioned for this study, Rio de Janeiro
Rondinelli, D. 1990. Decentralizing Urban Development Programs: A
Framework forAnalyzing Policy Options. U.S. Agency for International
Development, Office of Housing. Washington D.C.
Schubeler, Peter 1996. Participation and Partnership in Urban Infrastructure
Management. UNDP/UNCHSIWorld Bank Urban Management Program. World
Bank, Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1983. World Development Report: Management in Development.
Oxford University Press, New York.
World Bank, 1991. Brazil: Medium-Term Strategy for the Infrastructure Sectors.
World Bank, Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1992. World Development Report: Development and the
Environment. Oxford University Press, New York.
54



World Bank, 1992. Brazil: The Challenge of Municipal Development in the
1990s. World Bank, Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1993. Annual Review of Evaluation Results 1992. World Bank
Operations Evaluation Department Report 12403. Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1994(a). World Development Report: Infrastructure for
Development. Oxford University Press, New York.
World Bank, 1994(b). Twenty Years of Lending for Urban Development 1972-
92: An OED Review. World Bank Operations Evaluation Department Report No.
13117, Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1995. Indonesia Impact Evaluation Report: Enhancing the Quality of
Life in Urban Indonesia: The Legacy of the Kampung Improvement Program.
World Bank Operations Evaluation Department Report No. 14747-IND,
Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1996. The World Bank Participation Sourcebook. World Bank
Environmentally Sustainable Development Publication, Washington D.C.
World Resources, 1996. World Resources 1996-97: A Guide to the Global
Environment Washington D.C.
55






Annex 1
Table A.1  Brazil 1975-96: Benchmark Urban Sector Events
Non-Lending Activities                                                    Lending Activites
(details in Table A.3)                                                    (details inTable A.4)
Calendar Year        Government Policy                       Bank Policy (Bankwide)               Bank Policy (Brazil)                 Bank financed projects
(details in Table A.2)
1973                 Nabonal Low-Income Housing Program                                           The Bank was involved in two key
(Piano Nacional da Habitacao Popular,                                       aspects: (1) provision of badly needed
PLANHAP I).                                                                 services and employment opportunities
to the urban poor; and (2) strengthening
Nine metropolitan regions were                                              of the institutions at the federal and
established,                                                                local level.
1974                 Nabonal Commission on Metropolitan
Regions and Urban Policy (CNPU) created
1975-79              Second Naiional Development Plan (II
PND).
1975                 National Low-income Housing Program II   Housing Sector Policy Paper
(Plano Nacional da Habitacao Popular,
PLANHAP II).                           Urban transport Policy Paper
Nabonal Urban Development Fund (FNDU)
1976                 National urban transport agency (EBTU)
created.
Nabonal urban development fund (UDF)
created.
Medium-Sized Cities program (MSC)
began operations.
1977
1978
1979                 CNPU Is abolished and replaced by the                                                                             Sites and Services project approved
National Council on Urban Development                                                                             (Ln. 1654)
57



Annex I
Table A.1   Brazil 1975-96: Benchmark Urban Sector Events
Non-Lending Activities                                                     Lending Activities
(details in Table A.3)                                                     (details InTable A.4)
Calendar Year         Govemment Policy                       Bank Policy (Bankwide)                Bank Policy (Brazil)                  Bank financed projects
(details in Table A.2)
(CNDU) and an Undersecretariat of Urban                                                                            Medium-sized Cities project approved
Development (SDU).                                                                                                 (Ln. 1720)
Law 6766 on urban land subdivision
1980-85               Third Nabonal Development Plan (IlIl
PND).
1980                  Law 6803 on urban industrial land use   Shelter Policy Paper
1981
1982                                                                                                                                      Recife Metro Dev Proj approved
(Ln.2170)
NE Metropolitan Development project
approved (Ln. 2193)
1983                                                          Learning by Doing                    Urban Development in LAC in the 1980s  Parana Market Towns project approved
(Ln. 2343)
1984                                                                                                                                     Sites and Services (Ln. 1654) closes
1985                  CNDU abolished                                                               Urban Strategy Paper                   NE Metropolitan Development project
Ministry of Urban Development and                                                                                  closes (Ln. 2193)
Environment (MDU) created                                                                                          Santa Catabna Towns project
approved (Ln. 2623)
NE Flooding project approved (Ln.
2645)
1986                  EBTU abolished; BNH abolished           Urban Transport Policy Paper                                                Medium-sized Cities (Ln. 1720) closes
Caixa Economica Federal (CEF) assumed  __I                                                                        ISalvador Metro Development project
58



Annex I
Table A.1   Brazil 1975-96: Benchmark Urban Sector Events
Non-Lending Activities                                                      Lending Activities
(details in Table A.3)                                                     (details in Table A.4)
Calendar Year         Government Policy                      Bank Policy (Bankwide)                Bank Policy (Brazil)                  Bank financed projects
(details in Table A.2)
responsibilitIes of BNH.                                                                                           approved (Ln. 2681)
1987                  MDU became MHU (min.                                                         Urban Development in the Northeast
housing/urbanism)
1988                  MHU responsibilities curtailed as it                                                                               Parana Market Towns project closes
became Ministry of social welfare ministry                                                                         (Ln. 2343).
(MBES)                                                                                                             NE Flooding project closes (Ln. 2645)
National sanitafton program (PLANASA)
moved from MBES to MOH (ministry of                                                                                Rio Emergency Flooding
health).                                                                                                           Reconstruction project approved (Ln.
2975)
New Constitution put municipalities solely
in charge of local urban development
policy.
1989                  Ministry of social welfare (MBES)                                                                                  Redfe Metro Dev Project closes
abolished                                                                                                          (Ln.2170)
Parana Municipal Development project
approved (Ln. 3100)
Rio Grande do Sul Municipal
Development project approved (Ln.
3129)
1990                  Ministry of social action (MAS) created
1991                                                          Urban Policy Paper                   Medium-term Strategy for the
Infrastructure Sectors
1992                  Abolition of Ministry of Social Action (MAS)                                 Challenge of Municipal Sector
and of Secretariat of Regional                                               Development
59



Annex I
Table A.1  Brazil 1975-96: Benchmark Urban Sector Events
Non-Lending Activities                                                     Lending Activities
(details in Table A.3)                                                      (details inTable A.4)
Calendar Year         Govemment Policy                       Bank Policy (Bankwide)                Bank Policy (Brazil)                  Bank financed projects
(details in Table A.2)
Development.
Creation of Ministry of Social Welfare
(MBES) with Urban Podicy Responsibiiities.
1993                                                         Housing: Enabling Markets to Work                                           Santa Catarina Towns project closes
(Ln. 2623).
Minas Gerais Municipal Development
project approved (Ln. 3639)
1994                                                                                                                                     Ceara Urban DevelopmentNWater
Company project approved (Ln.3789)
1995                  Ministry of Social Welfare (MBES)                                                                                  Parana Municipal Development project
abolished                                                                                                          closes (Ln. 3100)
Creation of Ministry of Planning and                                                                               Reconstructon proect closes (Ln
Budget; its responsibilities included Urban                                                                        2975)
Policy.
Rio Grande do Sul Municipal
Development project closes (Ln. 3129)
1996                                                                                                                                     Bahia Municipal Development Project
approved (Ln.4140)
60



Annex I
Table A.2  Brazil 1975-96: Government Policy relating to the Urban Sector
Calendar            Govemment policy approach                       Govemment policy recommendations                Macro-economic events
Year                                                                                                                Population Indicators
1973                NatIonal Low-income Housing Program (Piano Nacional  The Metropolitan Regions Law required the creaton, by
da Habitacao Popular, PLANHAP I).              respective states, of Advisory and Deliberative Councils
First eighteoplitan werereate:Sa(DCs). The DCs had the responsibilities to prepare
First eight metropolitan regions were created: Sao  integrated metropolitan regional development plans and
Paulo, Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre, Curitiba, Recife,    programs and coordinate and execute programs and
Salvador, Fortaleza and Belem. Rio de Janeiro was  projects of metropolitan scope, induding common
added in 1974.                                 services (integrated development planning, basic
sanitation, metropolitan land use, transportation and the
road system, the production and distribution of piped
gas, and water resource use and pollution control). The
law transferred former federal responsibilites of
ensuring common services to the states.
1974                National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and  The GOB introduced a fiscal incentive to all
Urban Policy (CNPU) was created: inter-ministerial  beneficiaries of SFH in the form of a rebate equal to the
agency with advisory and prescriptive functions and  average 12% of the beneficiary's actual loan
responsibility for the coordination of natonal urban  repayments in the previous fiscal year and credited
development policy.                            against payments in the current year ("fiscal benefit).
1975-79             Second Natonal Development Plan (II PND).       The urban development strategy formulated in the 11
PND was based on the proposition that recent
urbanizaton trends (i.e., the rapid metropolization of Rio
de Janeiro and Sao Paulo) had introduced serious
distortions in urban structure and spatial organization.
Two lines of policy were introduced: (1) the system of
metropolitan areas was consolidated and measures
were taken to prevent further concentration of
population and economic activity In the SE region; and
(2) medium-sized cities in all regions were promoted to
reinforce an incipient trend that became evident in the
1960s by strengthening the second rank of the urban
structure and supporting the development of the interior.
Decision making and allocation of resources affecing
local development remained highly centralized at the
61



Annex I
Table A.2  Brazil 1975-96: Government Policy relating to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Govemment policy approach                          Govemment policy recommendations                   Macro-economic events
Year:                                                                                                                      Population Indicators
federal govemment level, to the detriment of the states
and municipalites.
1975                 Natonal Low-income Housing Program II (Plano
Nacional da Habitacao Popular, PLANHAP II).
National Urban Development Fund (FNDU)
1976                 National urban transport agency (EBTU) created.
National urban development fund (UDF) created.
Medium-Sized Cities program (MSC) began operations.
1977
1978
1979                 CNPU is terminated and replaced by the National    CNPU was terminated with the change in govemment
Council on Urban Development (CNDU) and an         and replaced by the National Council on Urban
Undersecretariat of Urban Development (SDU).      Development (CNDU). In addifion to CNPU
responsibilites, CNDU proposed annual and multi-
Law 6766 on urban land subdivision                annual urban development investment programs,
together with the annual program for all state funds
destined for urban development. The Executive
Secretary of CNDU was also transferred to the Minister
of Interior, where an Undersecretariat of Urban
Development (SDU) was created in May 1979.
SDU run the MSC.
1980-85              Third National Development Plan (lii PND).
1980                                                                                                                       Share of urban population: 68% (82 million).
During the 1980s there was a decreased in the urban
population of large metropolitan areas. Mid-sized dties
were receiving ("back migration") the population that left
earlier and now was retuming given the bad economic
62



Annex I
Table A.2   Brazil 1975-96: Government Policy relating to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Government policy approach                         Govemment policy recommendations                   Macro-economic events
Year:                                                                                                                      Population Indicators
situation of the large metro areas.
1981                                                                                                                       Rapidly declining of the national economic situation
amongst other reasons as a result of the second
petroleum price shock, that increased local pressures
for the decentralization of investment decisions and
sharply curtailed the resources available to the federal
government to pursue urban development objectives.
End of centralization.
1982                                                                                                                       Direct elections of Govemors.
1983
1984                                                                                                                       Direct elections of Mayors.
1985                 Civilian administration took over the central govemment.
CNDU abolished
Ministry of Urban Development and Environment (MDU)
was created to which BNH, the Executive Secretariat of
CNDU, EBTU and SDU were transferred.
1986                 EBTU abolished; BNH abolished
Caixa Economica Federal (CEF) assumed
responsibilities of BNH.
1987                 MDU became MHU (min. housing/urbanism)
1988                 MHU responsibilities curtailed as it became Ministry of
social welfare ministry (MBES)
National sanitation program (PLANASA) moved from
MBES to MOH (ministry of health).
New Constitution put municipalities solely in charge of
63



Annex I
Table A.2   Brazil 1975-96: Government Policy relating to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Government policy approach                          Govemment policy recommendations                    Macro-economic events
Year:                                                                                                                        Population Indicators
local urban development policy.
1989
1990                 Integrated Regional Planning was put aside and several                                                  Share of urban populatlon: 75% (82 million)
of the regional planning agencies were closed. The
municipalities were strengthened by letting them keep
some of the taxes collected locally.
Ministry of social action (MAS) created
1991
1992                 Ministry of Social Welfare (MBES) abolished
Creation of Ministry of Planning and Budget with
responsibilites for Urban Policy.
1993
1994
1995                 Ministry of Social Welfare (MBES) abolished
Creation of Ministry of Planning and Budget; its
responsibilities included Urban Policy
1996
64



Annex 1
Table A.3   Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-Lending Activities related to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Strategic approach (Bankwide)    Recommendations (Bankwide)              Strategic approach (Brazil)          Recommendations (Brazil)
Year:
1975                 Housing Sector Policy Paper call for    * sites and services projects                                         Late 70s:
lower affordable standards
* squatter upgrading projects                                            * support for GOB efforts to increase
the productfvity and improve the
* operaffons to be small demonstrabon                                       living conditions of the poorest
* support to housing finance instituftons                                   segments of the population, both
rural and urban;
* the promotion of insttuftonal
development policy reforms In order
to rationalize resource allocation and
enhance the coordination and control
of public investments.
*ease foreign exchange constraint on
Brazilian development by supporlTng
projects to expand export capacity
and promote domestc Import
substitubon and to provide part of
the medium and long-term capital
required by the country.
Urban Transport Policy Paper call for   *   bus and rail transport solutions
more attention to public transport
solutions affordable by the urban poor    *   cycist and pedestrian fadlities
*   lower cost traffic engineering
soluffons
1976
1977
1978
65



Annex I
Table A.3  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-Lending Activities related to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Strategic approach (Bankwide)    Recommendations (Bankwide)              Strategic approach (Brazil)          Recommendations (Brazil)
Year
1979
1980                 Shelter Policy Paper emphasizing    *   priority for the urban poor
shelter as a bask need of the urban  *   programs to be affordable with cost
poor.                                   recovery and community
participation
1981
1982
1983                 Learning by Doing focusing upon     *   efficient and equitable provision of   Urban Development In LAC In the  (only those specirically referrng to
inadequate urban services, infrastructure  urban services                1980s calling for Bank support in all  Brazil)
and institutional capadty for economic                                   countries in the region (induding Brazil)
growth                              *   nsttutonal strengthenig          for (i) stronger dty and metropolitan  *   strengthen and refine national
*   help private housing markets to  management; (ii) better urban services  urban management framework
work                            and infrastructure for urban enterprises    *   help develop metro areas and
and households; (lii) finandally sound   dces (management systems,
*   Bank to be wholesaler, not retailer   housing programs for low income    services, producUon and shelter)
of urban development finance    families
*   develop natonal policy framework
for housing, making existng
programs and instruments more
effident and equitable
*   develop sound polides for urban
transport, emphasizing dty
effidency
1984 _ _ . . .. .....
66



Annex I
Table A.3   Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-Lending Activities related to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Strategic approach (Bankwide)         Recommendations (Bankwide)            Strategic approach (Brazil)           Recommendations (Brazil)
Year:
1985                                                                                             Urban Strategy Paper calling for urban    *   operations combining macro-
policy: (i) with both macro-economic and  economic objectves and inter-
equity objectives; (ii) based upon states  personal equity In urban and
and municipalities' own priorities for    regional development policies
urban infrastructure and services; (iii)
with incentives for local govemments to    *   support for sound urban transport
improve their urban management            polices to improve cty efcency
functions.                            *   support for sound housing policies
and effective housing finance
mechanisms
*   strengthening urban management
to ensure efficient administration
*   greater efficiency in provision of
urban infrastructure and services.
1986                 Urban Transport Paper highlighting    *   financial viability and economic                                        The Bank decides not to support a
need for efficient urban transport,      efficiency to guide policy                                              second national MSC project and to
especially for the poor.                                                                                         essentially pursue a state by state,
*   improved bus operations                                                 metropolitan and municipal
*   examine other low-cost altematives                                     development approach in much of its
to expensive mass transit systems.                                     urban lending in Brazil during the late
1980s.
6 7



Annex I
Table A.3   Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-Lending Activities related to the Urban Sector
Calendar            Strategic approach (Bankwide)    Recommendations (Bankwide)               Strategic approach (Brazil)          Recommendations (Brazil)
Year:
1987                                                                                          Urban Development In the Northeast   .   greater local
calling for urban lending to support: (i)  autonomylaccountability in urban
economic growth within the constraints   development programs
of economic adjustment; (ii) sound
resource management; (iii) directly  *   more emphasis upon economi
targeted programs to benefit the poor;  instruments of urban development
(iv) efficient project Implementaton and  policy
procurement.                        *   urban policy should be more
related to dUes capadty to
mobilize resources than to
parameters of dty size
*   urban Investments In metro areas
should focus more upon economic
than sodal aspects
*   preventative rather than remedial
action to divert migrants from
metro, areas
*   integration of urban and industrial
development polides
1988
1989
1990
68



Annex I
Table A.3   Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-Lending Activities related to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Strategic approach (Bankwide)        Recommendations (Bankwide)           Strategic approach (Brazil)           Recommendations (Brazil)
Year:
1991                 Urban Policy Paper calls for economic   *   strengthen management of urban    Medium-term strategy for the      (strategic priorities for urban development
view of urban housing and infrastructure,  infrastructure programs        Infrastructure sectors (transportaton,    only)
taking into account large numbers of                                     telecom, water and urban) emphasizing    *   regulations to encourage private
urban poor and deterlorating urban   *   improve dty-wide regulations    four efficiency goals: (i) contributing to  sector involvement In municipal
environment                          a   strengthen municipal capacities  non-inflationary growth; (ii) greater
efficiency in service provision through  services
.   'safety netr programs for the    restructuring relative roles of public and    *   improved municipal finance
poorest                         private sectors; (ill) poverty targeted   polides, training and technical
*   raised awareness of urban        basic infrastructure services; (iv)      assistance
environment                     supporting environmental management.   *   tariff policies for municipal services
aiming at cost recovery
*   review municipal environmental
policies and make incentives to
limit polluUion
*   analyze housing/urban land use
policies
69



Annex I
Table A.3   Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-Lending Activities related to the Urban Sector
Calendar             Strategic approach (Bankwide)         Recommendations (Bankwide)            Strategic approach (Brazil)           Recommendations (Brazil)
Year:
1992                                                                                             Challenge of Municipal Sector         *   federal govemment to lead
Development focusing upon: (i) more       regulating 1988 Constitution
efficient municipal services by removing  changes affectng municipalifies
botUenecks; (ii) shifting municipal
development responsibiliUies to States;    *   federal goverment to lead in
(iii) transparent financial transfers to  urban polluton control
municipalities; (iv) incentives to force  *   stronger role for States in seeking
municipalites to maximize revenues; (v)   equity among municipalities
prices of municipal services reflecting
production costs; (vi) munidipal services   *   replace negotated grants by
that meet desirable performance           formula driven transfers
standards; (vii) efficiency through       strengthen municipal taxation
economies of scale; (viii) increase equity  capacity and incentives
by allocating resources to municipalities
in greatest need.                     *   improve cost recovery in pricing
* single set of books for local
accounting
* increase private sector role in
service provision (parking, public
transportation, toll roads, and solid
waste collection)
* better information about
municipalities
70



Annex I
Table A.3   Brazil 1975-96: Bank Non-Lending Activities related to the Urban Sector
Calendar              Strategic approach (Bankwide)         Recommendations (Bankwide)            Strategic approach (Brazil)            Recommendations (Brazil)
Year:
1993                  Housing: Enabling Markets to Work     *   Bank to discourage govemments
calls for govemments use market           from direct housing producton
enabling instruments instead of direct  *   But large scale infrastructure, sites
production of housing.                    and services and upgrading
programs for the urban poor.
*   sectoral approach by the Bank
*   regulatory and other institutional
improvements
1994
1995
1996
71






Annex I
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                         Objectives                           Description                          Ratings/Cost etc.
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979                 Sites and Services and Low-    .   promote lowest cost elements of    (a) Support for existing COHAB   ratings: satisfactory overall; uncertain
existing squaHter upgrading     PROFILURB programs in Sao Paulo,     sustainability and negligible institutional
Cost Housing (Loan 1654-BR)       programs and encourage lower    Salvador and Recife: (i) 31,800      development.
housing and infrastructure      urbanized lots; (ii) 23,800 home
standards                       improvement loans; (iii) 19,500 embryo    costs: US$460.5 m. (SAR: US$200m)
inHABstitutioy (strantelowncthe  housing units; (iv) complementary  loan: US$93 m. (SAR: US$93 m.)
CinAstttoal (statenlow-income   infrastructure; (v) experimental squatter
CHousin companies tow-increae   upgrading in Recife.                 completion: 1985
housing companies) to increase
delivery capacity               (b) Funding to support PROFILURB     PAR ffndings:
programs in other states.           *   all three COHABs experienced delays
in construction programs and their
financial performance was
unsatisfactory.
*   project suffered from BNH's
weakened cash flow.
*   project was difficult to implement with
a heavy demand on Bank staff time.
*   nevertheless, project contributed to
Bank's lending strategy in Brazil.
*   chances of project success are very
limited with an unwilling borrower in a
sector susceptible to political change.
73



Annex I
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                           Objectives                            Description                          Ratings/Cost etc.
Medium-sized Cities (Ln. 1720)  *   promote economic actvity through   (a) Technical assistance and       ratings: satisfactory overall; likely
Improved physical Infrastructure,    Infrastructure to promote economic  sustainability and substantial institutonal
urban services and munidpal      acUvity principally in low-income areas.    development.
administration In eight strategic
secondary regions.               (b) Building and staffing urban and   costs: US$150m (SAR: US$200m)
community infrastructure in low-income
strengthen institubonal capadty of   areas.                           loan: US$70 m. (SAR: US$70 i.)
agendes responsible for                                                compl Uon: 1987
coordination and execution urban    (c) Improvement of municipal       cmlto:18
development policies.            administration                        PAR findings:
(the above in the cities of Campina  *   project was innovative.
Grande, Florianopolis, Juiz de Fore,
Montes Claros, Natal, Pelotas,       *   too many project components and
Petrolina/Juazeiro, and Vitoria)          executbng agendes.
*   future efforts should rely more upon
municipal govemments.
*   degree of municipal involvement
correlated with project success.
1980
1981
74



Annex I
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                          Objectives                          Description                          Ratngs/Cost etc.
1982                 Recife Metropolitan Region   *   provideAImprove housing, urban   (a) Upgrading of 695 ha. for 160,000  ratings: unsatisfactory overall; unlikely
(Ln. 2170)                       infrastructure and services within    people;                         sustainability; and negligible institutional
Recife.                         (b) Metro infrastructure, inc: (i) 11km of   development.
*   provide metropolitan scale      BR 101 highway; (ii) 110 ha. of new  costs: US$215.6m (SAR: US$347.8m.)
infrastructure and services to  Curado urban center; (iii) 130 ha. of new
induce desired pattems of metro.    residential development at Curado; (iv)   loan: US$108 m. (SAR: US$123.9 m.)
development.                    Jaboatao industrial park; (v) housing  completion: 1990
land development of 240 ha. in
*   generate and enhance income,    Capibarbe river valley; (vi)         PAR findings:
especially for the urban poor.  Improvements to solid waste system.  *   apart from providing localized shelter
*   strengthen the planning,        (c) Income creaton and employment,       improvements, the project failed to
administrative and financial   inc: (i) TA to micro-enterprises; (ii)    achieve its objectves.
instbitutons responsible for urban  productivity centers to house 3,600
and metropolitan development,   micro-enterprises; (III) 10 labor    *   project failure was due to an over-
Intermedia.ion centers; (iv) infrastructure  ambibous design and adverse macro-
and equipment for fisheries cooperative;  economic circumstances.
(v) shrimp breeding station; (vi)
conservation of historic monuments and
provision of tourist infrastructure.
(d) Institutional development, inc: (i) TA
to strengthen metro agencies; (ii)
sanitaton education program.
75



Annex 1
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                          Objectives                          Description                          Ratings/Cost etc.
Fortaleza/Salvador           *   prepare programs and projects for   (a) Institutional development, induding    ratings: satisfactory overall; marginal
Metropolitan Development          Fortaleza and Salvador for Bank  detailed investment and engineering  sustainability; and partial institutional
Programs Preparation (Ln.         funding.                        studies, TA in financial and economic  development.
2193-BR)                                                          analysis for project preparaton,
*   strengthen metropolitan planning  administration and financial   costs: US$11.5m (SAR: US$25.1m)
agencies in Fortaleza and       management; income and employment   loan: US$5.6 m. (SAR: US$8.9 m.)
Salvador.                       generation studies.
(b) Pilot civil works for upgrading in  comple0on: 1985
Salvador, Camacar, Fortaleza and    PCR findings:
Caucala.                            *   a cost effectve engineering project Is
a valuable Instrument to test borrower
ownership and commitment.
*   Salvador demonstrated more
ownership than Fortaleza.
.   implementation has to be flexible to
adapt and adjust to changing macro
policy imperatives in Brazil.
76



Annex 1
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                         Objectives                           Description                          Ratings/Cost etc.
1983                 Parana Market Towns (Ln.     *   develop long term borrowing and  (a) Municipal infrastructure (street  ratings: satisfactory overall; likely
2343)                            cost recovery for municIpalities.  paving, rural road rehabilitation, small    sustainability and substantial institutfonal
bridges, power connections, water   development
seintroduce systematic cnteda for the   distribufton, sanitation works, storm  costs: US$105.2 (SAR: US$1 50.3m)
selection of subprojects and for the   drainage, street lighting, street furniture,   css  S182(A:U$5.m
allocadon of investment resources.  landscaping and site-works).    loan: US$51.9 m. (SAR US$52.7 m.)
*   promote, develop and apply fiscal   (b) Community fadlities (rural schools,    complefton: 1988
recovery of investment costs by  kindergartens, day-care units, social
redpient munidpalities.         centers, health posts, bus terminals,  PAR findings:
*   improve living conditions In small    slaughterhouses, markets, sport  *   project exceeded physical targets and
towns, through the provision of  grounds, gymnasium and recreation       achieved Its instituffonal and financial
urban Infrastructure and services.    centers).                          objectves.
(c) Equipment and vehicles for road  *   proiect improved subproject selection
maintenance equipment, school buses,     and resource allocation Procedures.
and ambulances
(d) TA to municipalItis for design,  *   it is difficult to assess project impact
tendering and supervision of wo*,        on local economic development.
cadasbres, real estate assessment, tax    *   the operaffon helped to improve the
administrabon, improved accounting,      quality of life in small towns and cities
town planning, and preparation of zoning  throughout Parana.
and circulation plans.
1984
1985                 Santa Catarina Small Towns    *   strengthen managerial and finandal  (a) Eligible infrastructure investments in   ratings: satisfactory overall; likely
Improvement (Ln.2623-BR)         capabilities of municipalities   190 towns with less than 50,000      sustainability and partial Institutional
inhabitants,                        development.
*   improve local govemment resource
allocation                      (b) Technical assistance to improve  costs: US$48.7 m. (SAR: US$70 m.)
provide local economic and social    managerial capabiities of municipalities,  loan: US$24.1 m. (SAR: US$24.5 m.)
*                         ~~~~~~~~~municipal associations and state
infrastructure to sUmulate      agencies concemed with municipal     complefton: 1994
producton and exports           development
PAR findings:
* (to be completed -AK)
77



Annex I
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                         Objectives                          Description                         Ratings/Cost etc.
Northeast Urban Flood        *   rehabilitate flood-damaged      (a) Shelter (i) rehabilitabon of 63,000  ratings: satisfactory overall, likely
Reconstructlon (Ln. 2645-BR)     municipalites                   units; (ii) reconstruction of 50,000 units;   sustainability and partial insttutional
(iii) relocabton and construcbon of 4,000   development
a strengthen planning for flood control  new units; (iv) low cost sanitabon  eosts:US$165.8 m. (SAR -USS208.6m)
and protection                  Improvement.                        cssU$6.  .(A  U$0.m
(b) Urban infrastructure (i) repair,  loan: US$98.6 m. (SAR - US$100 m.)
improvement and extension of water  compleffon: 1989
supply and sewerage systems; (ii) repair
of streets and storm drainage; (iii) flood    PAR findings:
protecton works; (iv) storm drainage  *   project exceeded target for
works; (v) vehicles and equipment.     Infrastructure.
(c) Community facilities: (i) repair of  *   flood protecton works have already
schools and health posts.               averted major damage.
(d) Micro-enterprise credits: (I) loans to    *   institutional strengthening objectves
repair and replace machinery, equipment  not achieved.
& buildings.
(e) Studies: (i) flood risk assessment; (ii)
flood management plans; (iii) TA to for
reconstructon and rehabilitation works;
(iv) evaluation of economic impact of
reconstrucUon works; (v) equipment for
Part E.
1986                Salvador Metropolitan         *   strengthen the finandal capacity of  (a) Loans to finance urban infrastructure  (project nearing completion)
Development (Ln. 2681-BR)        metropolitan and municipal      and municipal services (upgrading,
agencies.                       access roads, solid waste collection and   costs:(SAR US$151 m.)
*   supportincreasedeconomicdisposal facilities, maintenance program,  completion: 1996/97
productivity of the metropolitan  productve activities). 
region.                        (b) Institutional development (fiscal and
financial management, cadastres,
*   improved resource allocation.   historic preservation, metropolitan
*   reduce the demand for federal and   planning).
state transfers.
1987
1988
78



Annex I
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                         Objectives                          Description                         Ratings/Cost etc.
1989                Municipal Development         *   Improve the managerial and     (a) Technical assistance to strengthen    (prject nearing completion)
Project In Parand (Ln. 3100-     Institutional capacity and fiscal  urban management capabilibies of  costs:(SAR US$226.9 m.)
BR)                              efficiency of municipalities and  municipalities and state agencies
state agencies.                 concemed with urban development     complefion: 1996
*   provide basic economic and social   (b) Execution of urban sub-projects  loan: (SAR US$100 m.)
Infrastructure in urban areas.  (water, sewerage, solid waste, housing,
decentraliz urban administratn  community facilities, street paving, street
*   decentralize urban administration    lighting, erosion and water pollubon
and financial management.      control.
*   Improve targeting of urban
programs to lower income
population.
*   strengthen the State urban
development fund (FDU).
Municipal Development        *   improve the managerial and      (a) Technical assistance to strengthen    (project nearing completion)
Project in Rio Grande do Sul     institutional capacity and fiscal  urban management capabilities of
(Ln. 3129-BR)                    efficiency of municipalities and  municipalities and state agencies  costs:(SAR US$227 i.)
state agencies.                 concemed with urban development.    completion: 1996
*   provide basic economic and social   (b) Execution of urban sub-projects  loan: (SAR US$100 m.)
infrastructure in urban areas.  (water, sewerage, solid waste, housing,
community facilities, street paving, street
*   decentralize urban administration    lighting, erosion and water pollution
and financial management.       control.
*   improve targeting of urban
programs to lower income
populabon.
*   strengthen the State urban
development fund (FUNDOPIMES).
1990
1991
1992
79



Annex I
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                         Objectives                          Description                         Ratings/Cost etc.
1993                Minas Gerais Municipal        *   strengthen municipal financial  (a) Loans to finance TA to municipalites  (project under implementation)
Management and                   management in support of        and grant financing of training programs.
Environmental Infrastructure     decentralizaton objectives.     (b) Loans to finance urban Infrastructure  costs:(SAR  US$331.1 m.)
(Ln. 3639-BPJ                *   improve environmental           projects (water, sewerage, drainage,  comp/etlon: (scheduled 1998)
management.                    paving, street lighting).           loan: (SAR US$150 m.)
*   study the feasibility of mobilizing  (c) Loans to finance: (i) privatzation pilot
private resources for munidpal  program; and (ii) micro-regional pilot
services.                       program.
*   test provision of regional services
through munidpal associations.
*   transfer munidpal management
skills to less developed areas of
Minas Gerais.
1994                Ceard Urban Development and  *   strengthen local govemment      (a) institutonal development through TA   (project under implementation)
Water Resources Management      financial management and        to municipalifies and State agencies.  costs:(SAR US$240 i.)
(Ln. 3789-BR)                    institutional capacity of Ceara Stateb    urban                                US$240 m.)
agendes concemed with urban    (b) urban frastructure (low-costton: (scheduled 1999)
development and water resource    sanitation, drainage, street paving and    cmlto:(ceue  99
management                     lightng, community facilities, materials   loan: (SAR US$140 m.)
for self-help housing, and water supply).
*   improve living conditons in very
poor neighborhoods of selected  (c) water resources infrastructure
ities                          component (earthen dams, water
conveyance systems, rehabilitation of
*   increase efficiency of water use  existing reservoirs).
*   provide safe, reliable and economic  (d) pilot schemes for: (i) rehabilitating
source of water to targeted cities in  street children; and (ii) decentralized
critical need.                 water management.
1995
80



Annex I
Table A.4  Brazil 1975-96: Bank Lending Operations related to the Urban Sector
Calendar Year:    Project                            Objectives                            Description                           Ratings/Cost etc.
1996                  Bahia Municipal Management    *   help Bahia state's program of      (a) Institutional development          (project under implementation)
Project (Ln 4140-BR)               reform for management of urban    (b) urban infrastructure               costs:(SAR LS$222 m.)
areas(burainasrtuecss(AUS22n.
*   improve the living conditions of  (c) urban upgrading                   completfon: (scheduled 2000)
urban residents, primarily the poor.                                    loan: (SAR US$100 m.)
81



!



ANNEX 2
Comments from the Borrower
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND BUDGET
SECRETARIAT OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
Fax No. 1462/97                                     Brasilia, May 30, 1997
For:                      YVES ALBOUY
Chief, Infrastructure and Energy Division OED/World Bank
Fax:                      No. 001 (202) 522-3125
From:                     STAEL BALTAR
'Acting Secretary for International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning
and Budget
Fax:                      No. (061) 225-4022
No. of pages: 7
(including cover page)
NOTE:        In case of a bad transmission, please call
(061) 225-7185
Dear Mr. Albouy:
Thank you very much for your correspondence of May 22 last, in response to our request to
extend the deadline for submitting Brazil's comments on the study to evaluate the impact of urban
projects.
After consulting the agencies involved in the projects, we agree with the preliminary
version of the report prepared by the OED. We refer, in particular, to its more concise, logical, and
objective format for presenting the results of that study, especially its conclusions and
recommendations, which may be most useful in the formulation of new guidelines for the approval
and implementation of future urban development projects in Brazil.
Nonetheless, even with the extension of the deadline, we received comments from some
agencies late; they are attached to this message, with a request that the Department also consider
them in drafting the final version of the report.
Sincerely,
[signature]
83



ANNEX 2
ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT
ON URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
The actions undertaken by the World Bank evaluation project are essential to showing the
value of the work done by the urban research and planning institutes in the cities where project
interventions were undertaken in association with IBRD; to gauge the impact of the projects
undertaken with the beneficiary communities; and to assess the ever greater responsibility that local
governments are assuming for the provision of urban services to their communities.
We note the following with respect to the conclusions presented in the report:
1.   In general, improvements in the living conditions of the beneficiary populations
were greatest in the areas targeted by the health, sanitation (water supply, refuse collection, and
drainage), and road paving projects.
These benefits were observed most tangibly in the areas that had more than one
intervention. They were less evident in the areas that received only isolated projects. The
multiplicity of problems and unmet needs in the communities involved diluted the impacts of the
projects that were carried out in this fashion, as did the absence of parallel projects to sustain the
official interventions, considering the scope of the planned objectives.
For the purposes of evaluation, one should consider clustered and sustained interventions,
i.e. the concomitant implementation of projects to address a given situation and component projects
that facilitate and help to attain the pre-defined goal and objectives. For purposes of illustration, we
can cite the following component projects:
environmental and sanitary education components for the sanitation and health
projects (hygiene, etc.); and,
-     social assistance and psychological support components for the resettlement
projects.
2.    The experience of the CPM-IBRD in Juiz de Fora, although it contributed a new and
advanced administrative model, unfortunately did not create a specific municipal culture. From the
standpoint of evaluation, this project met with much resistance on the part of the implementing
units, and the results were possible only because of the technical effort. The cyclical pace of
government policies mitigates against the use and adoption of the resulting technologies in project
design and implementation. The outsourcing of public services, neglecting or underutilizing
installed technical capabilities, has hindered the application and development by a large number of
public employees from the CPM-IBRD school of the procedures they have learned.
Further work is still needed on the basic aspects of the cultural process, participation and
conmmunication.
In the CPM the model was applied only in part, in project design, but not in project
monitoring and ongoing evaluation.
84



ANNEX 2
3.    We highlight the importance of having a research and planning institute in the
municipal administration. One example is the case of Juiz de Fora. Soon after it was created, the
Research and Planning Institute of Juiz de Fora took charge of designing and administering the
CPM-IBRD projects. The technical team trained at that time learned a great deal. Soon thereafter
the CPM was able to apply the lessons learned in projects such as the following: The Fund to
Support Social Development (FAS), the Program for Social Priorities (PRO-MUNICIPIO), the
Program for the Sanitation of Risk Areas (PROSANEAR), and the Program for Environmental
Sanitation, Organization, and Modernization of the Municipalities (SOMMA).
In addition to these projects, the office has been undertaking short-term as well as
permanent activities in the area of urban planning, including drafting and monitoring laws relating
to urban development.
4.    The level achieved by Juiz de Fora in the document as a Best Practice City suggests
to us a certain concern in the face of the new development prospects that lie ahead. The inevitable
increase in the population, and with it the virtual growth in the demand for public services, requires
significant investment to ensure that the quality of life remains at today's levels.
[signature]
Carlos Alberto de A. Zenkner
Director of the Economic-Financial Department
85



ANNEX 2
IPEA/CGPU TECHNICAL NOTE
Brasilia, May 27, 1997
TECHNICAL    NOTE    ON          THE
DOCUMENT "BRAZIL: IMPACTS OF
URBAN PROJECTS" (May 2,1997, draft)
Diana Meirelles da Motta
Based on the projects evaluated, the document appropriately sets forth the main objectives
of the impact evaluation done by the Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank, as
indicated in the text distributed during the workshop held April 22 and 23 of this year.
The suggestions now presented refer to item 1 of the document, entitled "Main Conclusions
and Recommendations," and annexes Al - Brazil 1975-96: Benchmark Urban Sector Events and
A2 - Brazil 1975-96: Government Policy relating to the Urban Sector.
(1) ITEM 1. "MAIN CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS"
The following recommendations are aimed at highlighting issues that may arise in programs
that support reforms by improving services to address locally determined priorities. It is hoped that
this will help consolidate project evaluation efforts.
Improving the Living Conditions associated with Urban Poverty
When evaluating project impacts, special emphasis should be placed on urban poverty, and
the need to ensure it is addressed by the urban policies of the federal, state, and municipal
governments.
In the peripheral areas of the metropolitan regions, urban problems are often associated with
land use and poverty, and are generally aggravated by the steady incorporation of new areas that are
parceled out clandestinely. For the most part, such informal human settlements are located in areas
governed by legislation that places restrictions on occupation and construction, and they have
become an alternative means of housing for the poorest sector of the population.
Drafting suggestion:
- The informal areas should be recognized as a key element in the city's economic and
social development. Conventional planning approaches should be revised so as to take account of
situations in which housing is provided by the informal sector.
- Simplifying and adapting urban development plans and legislation on land use as a way to
apply specific instruments for solving urban land titling problems, as well as developing
86



ANNEX 2
environmental strategies specially tailored to the cities, in order to serve the occupied areas and
contain the social and physical deterioration of the urban environment.
Institutional Strengthening and Reform at the Municipal Level
Mitigating urban problems includes recognizing that urban policy should be seen from an
intersectoral perspective, in the macroeconomic and social context, with a view to better
applications of urban investments, expanding social equity, and fostering economic growth, as well
as improving the quality of life for the population.
Drafting suggestion:
- Evaluate urban management and planning from the institutional, financial, legal, and
political-administrative perspectives, especially in relation to land use, housing, infrastructure, and
public services, so as to contain the social and physical deterioration of the urban environment.
- The regulatory, institutional, and legal environment should be enhanced with a view to
eliminating the obstacles to greater access to land, housing, and urban infrastructure. It is
recommended that new types and sources of financing for investment be found, based on expanded
cooperation between the public and private sectors.
- The institutional stability of the federal agencies involved in urban development, which
have seen successive political-administrative reforms over the last 12 years, is fundamental to
ensure the design and implementation of federal urban policy, and to attain specific goals.
Support for Urban Policy and the Research Institutes
Drafting suggestion:
- Urban policy strategies should be based on a new model of state intervention, supported
by administrative decentralization and an effective partnership with society and the private sector,
considering the local communities to be strategic, and fostering the mobilization of local resources
and the participation of the population. Under such a model it would be up to the federal
government to regulate, articulate, and foster coordinated action to address the main urban
problems.
- Urban management can be improved through the activation and application of appropriate
urban policy instruments (for urban development, as well as legal, institutional, financial, and other
instruments) and by involving different actors, both formal and informal, in the urban development
process. The lack of appropriate methods of analysis to obtain information about the city, urban
planning practices, and the design, development, and application of its main instruments also stands
in the way of satisfactory urban management.
- As less urban research was done in the 1980s, an up-to-date empirical, analytical, and
conceptual basis is needed concerning urban problems. Studies should be carried out on important
87



ANNEX 2
issues to be considered by the various levels of government in order to support urban policy
analyses and proposals. The planning and research institutes need support to perform their role of
promoting urban planning and designing policies and policy instruments.
(HI)   TABLE Al - BRAZIL 1976-96: BENCHMARK URBAN SECTOR EVENTS
It is proposed that under the item government policies, 1992, the decision to abolish the
Ministry of Social Action and the Secretariat for Regional Development be indicated, as well as the
creation of the Ministry of Social Welfare (with responsibility for national policy in the areas of
housing, sanitation, internal migration, and occupation of lands), and of the Ministry of Regional
Integration (with responsibility for urban development, among other areas).
It is proposed that mention be made, under government policies, 1995, of the creation of the
Ministry of Planning and Budget, with responsibility for urban policy.
(III) TABLE A2 - BRAZIL 1975-96: GOVERNMENT POLICY RELATING TO THE
URBAN SECTOR
It is proposed that under the item government policies, 1992, the decision to abolish the
Ministry of Social Action and the Secretariat for Regional Development be indicated, as well as the
creation of the Ministry of Social Welfare (with responsibility for national policy in the areas of
housing, sanitation, internal migrations, and occupation of lands), and of the Ministry of Regional
Integration (with responsibility for urban development, among other areas).
It is proposed that mention be made, under government policies, 1995, of the creation of the
Ministry of Planning and Budget, with responsibility for urban policy.
88



ANNEX 2
Brasilia, 5 June 1997
To:   Dr. Roberto Bastos Carreiro
Coordinator of Performance Evaluation - SEAlNIMPO
From: Jorge Guilherme Francisconi
Ref:   Comments on draft version of Impact Evaluation Report on Urban Development Projects
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank
1.    These observations deal with the most important aspects of the partial knowledge that I
have of the problem and also respect the spirit of the Report. The excellent quality of the work
done should be highlighted, and thus the importance of its compatibility with present urban
problems. Here follow some modest suggestions to complement that effort.
2     I suggest that the document makes clear the differences and/or similarities between:
*  objectives that originally guided the elaboration of the projects analyzed;
- objectives that guide the Impact Evaluation Report.
This comment aims at establishing clearly for the reader, if (i) the original objectives were
achieved and if (ii) those objectives are the same and the ones that guided the evaluations of the
IER.
In the debates at SEAIN this question remained unclear. If I remember well, the Medium-sized
Cities Project-in whose preparation I participated while still at CNPU, an entity that does not
feature in the IER-and the Recife Metropolitan Project were guided by the need for a
multidisciplinary action, geared toward economic and social questions, the strengthening of the
system of medium-sized cities, and the reduction of regional inequalities-in the case of the
Recife project.
3.    The IER's understanding in item 6 (page vi) about the "Policy Dialogue in Brazil"
appears to be incomplete, when it suggests that poverty alleviation and improving the conditions
of the urban poor were among the objectives of the loans made at that time.
This is partially true. The directives of the Second National Development Plan (II-PND) to
reduce injustice and social inequalities, to strengthen the equilibrium of Brazil's urban network
and reduce regional inequalities included-without being the central point-poverty alleviation
and improving the conditions of the urban poor. As observed in the IER, the Housing Finance
System (SFH) had too much money, but the FGTS system did not permit a broader participation
of the poor in housing policy.
On the other hand, if the IER is wanting in offering a more complete picture of that moment, the
energy crisis should be remembered as an important causal factor in the loans requested by
EBTU for Metropolitan Corridors, for the Porto Alegre suburban train (TRENSURB)-the
Bank's first in this sector-and the corridors of Urban Agglomerations (AGLURB). Paving of
streets for bus routes, in favelas, arises at this time, always geared toward a poorer population. It
89



ANNEX 2
achieved a great success, and was repeated in other projects and remains among the components
with the most successful results.
That is all, and congratulations for the Methodology adopted!
Sincerely
(signed)
Francisconi
90



70  VENEZUELA  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0  (GUI~~~~~~~~~~NA                                                        BRAZIL                   28458~~~~~~~~~~IRD285
>~~>~
/               2007                                    ~~~~~IMPACT EVALUATION
COLOMBIA                               J ~~~~~~~~~~~Z 1400                                                                   6~ MILES
ROR ~~  > ~~~y'~K~~---s9                                                                       STUDY
IMA  <~~~~~-~~  AMA PA ~~~~URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
r>-.  I                   Macop~~~~~ -                 ATLANTIC    OCEAN                         0 ~~~~~~CITIES LOCATION
ZA    ~..~,o.Natal SELECTED CITIES
.11~~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~  70                         .       ~~~~~~~~~~~Soo Lv7~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~FEDERAL HIGHWAYS
Soo,oI  Fartolezo~ ~ ~ ~~(   STATE CAPITALS
A   M   A  z   0  -N   A   S
A    R    A,
.                                 F~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q~~J  PANDi     NATIONAL CAPITAL
..                                                                       NGP.                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
A1ARAN7~~~A0   .  CLARA   ~~~   NOIa~~             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A                                                                                                          Cpp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,4'j~~~~~~~~~~P9   l
A C R E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                            250  000   750  1000 KILOM0ETERS
R,oBrn,co                                                                              -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uaer  9- 6
Propreira  .   AOA200                              400        600 MILES
M  'A   T 0        A N t    o,e,,'     A       7A                                             l UVnonoAI,A7o
R                                /                                                                                     . N D 6             U,,to)TIA
G  R~ C  S 5 0                                   JavdrSnoof,oIooo
(                         Ro,cdor                                                                                      ony eodorsemeni or occepIaoce~~~~~~~~~~Salado
.i~~~~C~~nbo                             001 A',~~~~~~~~~~~TT0~!  MJA                                                       -h bo-od-on
I             Gor7co~~~~~~~~G0   A ,~BRAS LIA   /                                               _____________________
-,                  <.         1              -                1399~~~~~~~~~~~                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A I 5NN  V~ENEZLJELA f~T
*                ~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA       ".Jb                                                I'~Ao,4>    'PEC.REP
*  ,,N  -- ~~~~~~~~~~0.C~~~~nr               .. -.                            ..                                    COLOMBIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  (\,J ..OIDBI
S                                                    SACS                                                                   '6~~~~~~~Gd.'
I ~~~~~~. ~~~PAULO                                D                                         PERJANS              RAZI
PARAGUAY   I              Cooeo        ~      SoPpo
CHILE  /                                   ~~~~~~~~PARANA                                                                             070
-              "'                I     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Almirante                                                     PACIFIC
PA C I F  C                                                                       T  1d7                                                                                       ',,ARAGLAY
OCEAN ~~~~~~~~    . ~~~~~                                                          ATLANTIC ~~~~~~~~~OCEAN
:,'5ANTA CATAR114A                                       ~~~~~~~~ARC;ENTINA'  ATLANTIC
~PIomn,~rAEoIIn0  C EA  N
(  ARGEN'1HNA    I          KO/ C0~~~~~oASo~~                                                                                      )                    OCEAN
A)RS E   'baIN ARiO d                               UND
70'                       {~~~~0, URUGUAY(#090RO,0.                                                                                    6
JUNE 1997






IBRD 28459
, ENEAUENA lFGUL4NA
BRAZIL                                                           COLOMBIA|    J  t%L'                   Atlontic Ocean
JUIZ DE FORA
MINAS GERAIS STATE
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY                                                                   f
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                                                                                            13_ BRAZIL
SITE LOCATION: STA. EFIGENIA                                                        PERU    '-B.
TO   (MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT, LOAN 1720)                                                           PERUA                                 ER
Belo Horizonte                                                                                                                                    IGERAS
| t ,. ..*~  ~%fr                      0 uixd eror
~~~~~~~,                                                                        a                                      Bla~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o. R.de Janeiro
a                      0                                                                                                                (A)
/n                                             O - - - - ?l : .: . > Dr. Joao Penido
10             V/-                               -    S?             Reservoir..I
@     CITY CENTER
SELECTED PROJECT SITE
<   \  ;            <      f   8                                                                  _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND STREETS
f ?w S - .. ;.: g . j . ..... ? t- w F%S > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
T& -i                   STATE BOUNDARIES
po~~~~~~~~~t                       A                               .   .                                        4     ,rE?S,-w.  w    
-         ER -  NA- INTNONAL BOUNDAP2ES
KILOMETERS
This map  as produed
by the Map Design Ui
of The World Bank.
The boundaris. color,
denominations and any
other infarnotion ahou'
on this inc p  do  not
imply, o     . t   p.,t of
The World Bank Gr-Up,
any judgment an the legal
stnmiatus atd any tria ry;    
The Wodd Bank Group,                        -      /                                                            |)N/de aneir
ar any endorsement                                        \      s                                                                -:~Jh  \.
or anceptance of such                                                .         .Rid\
boundarjes.yT   l  eJn/oW.oer 
JUNE 1997






BRAZIL
FORTALEZA                                                               .tl .....e~
CEARA STATE
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY 
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
SITE LOCATION: POTIRA
(NE PILOT METRO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,LOAN 2193)1+ 
CITY CENTER                           T  eeil
SELECTED PROJECT SITE.........
BUILT -UP -AREA
MAW~IN ACCESS ROADS AND STREETS              /
--- RAILROADS                                                                                                                                    t     A
RIVERSN
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARY                                            . ... ....   .   ...
STATE BOUNDARY                                              . ..     ......... ..  ...\
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES/                                                                                                                                                             >
4.1
%  I* VNEZUELA 
cOLOMBIA).\~>   (~2~ZEA/ Atlantic Ocecan
STE.IA~~~~~~~~~~
BRAZI                                                                                                    .. ....
PERU                                                                                                                            b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ti map was produced
-)    *')      ~~~Brasilia~                                                    \. ..     ,                                                                              b   y the Map Design Unit
BOLl VIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fThe World Bank.
T~he boundaries, colors,
-'                                                                                                           ,..       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enominations and any
/                                            I                                                         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ther informafion shown
, " No do                                                                                                      g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5~51N  n  this ma p  do  not
~/    ~ o5OuIf~tJaim                                                                                                      ,.                                     imply, on the part of
~~~~~~~~~~~~2.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iayjdgeta  h  ea The World Bank Group,  F"
z   ARGENTIN                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~KILOMETcERS                   ~*                                                         status of any territory.
~~~ARGENTINAf. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      <'N  ~~~~~~~~~~~.- ~~~~or any endorsement                                                   Ka
U UGUA  'orlnk  cr,acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                 00
10   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~aioReservoir                                                                      ToJuazeiro do Norte       bonais






IBRD 28461
1bMq~~~~~~~~~~OO                                             Th~~~~~~~iis' mcq, 'n piodeced
b6 he M O sign Unit
The ~bovndbEies, colors,
denom.inrin Qnd ony
o.t---.r {i  rSrhn showr
I  oy judgInenfa telea
sTten of any  er*i
! . ' ' ,,,              .,,,,  ,, ,,,< ,,, >,, .,,- .,  ; ; ! ; ,,: ,, , ,.or any en                       t
mosrndon~e
1'"S''''...-4             -
\/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A f a! n} ; i! c
A a    >   <   ' a ?   - -     g    $            <         0        O~~~~~~~~~~~ C e an - 
I J                              I       I       
To Monte Aler
BRAZIL                                               coom A                             Alanltk Oceon'
NATAL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE STATE                                                                             II RNE   w
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY                                                                                     D OGRTNE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                                                                    B RA Z IL
SITE LOCATION: QUINTAS                                             PE RU
(MEDIUM - SIZED CITIES PROJECT, LOAN 1 720)                                              BL-  )         B.st! ;
CITY CENT       T                           RAILROADS                                               e         ;      
SELECTED P-aJ   SITE                       RIVERS                              e     /              -              a e a
ToRiachuela ,/' t tt__                                                                               /
BUILT -   AREA                             STATE BOUNDARY              .             ( ARGENT'IA.'
MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND STREETS        -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            JRYD .A>       A*rW  c Mean
JUNE 1997






IBRD 28462
BRAZIL-                                  $ToPfoaRi5&Ftrdo
JUAZEIRO                          .. 
BAIIASTATE-
!AArACTZ EVALUIATION STUDY EK
}TAN fEVELOPMENT POJECTS,
~~ ~A LTO  DO  CRUZEIRO                         .       -K0
t AlAm SIZED CITIES PROJECT,
LOAN  1720)                                                  .    -.                  
BUILT UP AREA
0 CITY CENTER                                                                       ij
SELECTED PROJECT SITE  "
-  MAIN ACCESS ROADS           i
AND STREETS
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
KILOMETERS
An   ' ,                                         BRAZIL
U        - - -               ~~~~~~~~~~~~SALVADOR
BAtHIA STATE
~~~                IMPA~~~~~~~~~Cr EVAIAUATION STUD.Y
e    E e-  e                                   1 1 0 a~~~ fDA:fl;z nX/L-I
* fl -             SITE LO~~~~~~PCATION: ANTOYNIO  BALBN 
__                             L~~~~~~~~ROJCJOAN 2 1 93}1
N               BT~~~~aiILT UPAREA    -- -Q5 10 1
E. i::  e': E~ ~ ~ ~                         0      CTY CENTER..    - - MTk 
I  j e\jSELECTED PROJECT SITE-  -
NI                       M~~~~~~ANINACCESS ROADSAND STREETS;
GUYVAN--
-  .~~~  ~~*  '~~~  i     2 ~~VENEZIJELA   jfl,t
'-~~~'-    Ei'Th~~~~~,.  I  I ~~~ ItAso   -OLOM                   A
E                                      Ahs~.-t   ~    COEAK'-       2,                   dmt cc
1.,   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R./:   
Os Sanmsr.                         us                   -
SOOOA OS 0055500 flaY  I      T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A v0 Oou
my isAL AOk              \/FEQAcAo
JUNE 1997






IBRD 28463
BRAZIL
ARACAJU
SERGIPE STATE
jo o:><<X3:w                                         IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
~~      -M                                         SITE LOCATION: 1 8 DE FONTE
.l{NE?A.LOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT,
'*l''                                         ~~~~~~LOAN 2645)
-       MAIN ACCEBUILT UP AREA
,   -->             E CITY CENTER
*3ERGIPE STATE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED PROJECT SITE
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY -tso?iggst;t ... _ MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND STREETS
0 ~ ~~~~                                           ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   50    10 a d5 
This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, dlenominations
Jtsi                   and anyother information shown on
this map do not imply, an the part of
Ro Sergipe                                              The World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any territory, or
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
BRAZIL
PROPRIA    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~i ~~                   BUILT UP AREA
SERGIPE STATE
IMPACT  EVALUATION  STUDY                                                     -     MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND STREETS
URBAN DEVELPOMENT PROJECT ,, 
SITE LOCATION: BARRIO AMERICA
(NE FLOOD RECONTRUCTION PROJECT, IV                                                       0
LOAN 2645) 
"*-- VENEZUELA '.YANY7jt
La. das                4
~STRGE                                         Pedrinhas
RV 
BOLIVIA   ,I
\-4   PARAGUIAY
/ ARGENT5SA                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 100 200 300 A00 500
fURUGU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~METERS






IBRD 28464
BUILT UP AREA                           BRAZIL
0  CITY CENTER                            PETROLINA
SELECTED PROJECT SITE             PERNAMBUCO STATE                    To Recife
MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND STREETS  IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
=oo ? n--; -? . SITE LOCATION: VILLA MOCO/
2 (MEDIUM SIZED CITIES PROJECT, LOAN 1720)
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--p~
77 l
R ECI FE            --ND                                      t\   P.' -     
PjERNAMBUCO STATE f t '??N    OL -, '- ,
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY                       1.<zF >~> ; ;
JRBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   IR              Q S-'!">?'f'   's           
SITE LOCATION: CORREGO DA AREIA  '-/t t                                ,' '    
RECIFE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECbTs _----Z ,?.,g4\  ."-iX'''''      '-   -:'. 
0  1  2  3  4  5 t(Afc
'7VENEZUELAw - ;5 1 U e  ; K; 
jv! i~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~'~BUL A~A~
-    -    - M -    -    -    -    -    -    -OUN~AR
BRAZIL      -                                            ANACS OD
(                                   --~ ~REDCTEFT
IA    E        ASIVIATUDY
HEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QS           AIA'E(PRAGA ;..,..'L.
.4-                                                  / ANTIN     n ' ,'  '  ae. . . 20  T
-      - R     U   ; - -   -   - -   -   -   -   -   -                    1 9 9
VMI;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EIA                      6~~~~Aae 2OgllAda  hWak  ak
LOM ?BbanarU aIrJea*nBn
,~~HIL~  KAGUUI,*  ~~~nd onyo~~b~r                  rnRatT a q han 
8 RUG A  Z   
MAIN ACJUN ROADS






IBRD 28,465
BRAZIL                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This mop was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The 6oundaries, colors, denominations
COLORADO                                                              ondl anyother information shows on
this map do not imply, on the part of
PARANA  STATE                                                          The World Bank Group, any ludgment
,.-rmi                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on the legal status of any territory, or
IMPACT  EVALUATION  STUDY                                                --;       any endorsement or acceptance of
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                                                  ?           suchboundaries.
SITE LOCATION (UNNAMED)
(PARANA MARKET TOWNS PROJECT, LOAN2343)
A   ? i:t i... ..E.A    ...E......l:?   -E.~ Ei. -'
j , . A, . , 0 .~~~~~~~'~  R. Rio GAnd'      "je do Sul''0  
Scr.E>RiI~~~~~~~~~- il- 
SELECTED PROJECT SITE                                                     PROJECTS
-                                                                        MAIN ACCESS ROADS  A   ROD A   STREETS
A :^ONDSTREETSO     \                                                        g 
I>,  X  BRAZIL
>  >  ALMIRANTE TAMANDARE
J  <                                     ~~~~~~PARANA STATE
/  )                               ~~~~IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
\  >                            ~~~URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
\ 4 oto SITE LOCATION: DISTRITO COLONIA LAMENHA GRANDE
--v> ~~(PARANA MARKET TOWNS PROJECT, LOAN 2343)
s~~~~~~~I 1-o.,   -      BUILT UP AREA                               i        \\!SELECTED PROJECT SITE
.. e . . iS. ziN, !.9:~~~~~~~~I  CITY CENTER                       MAIN ACCESS ROADS AND STREETS
9; sow,, 2t,,>.o . 2 > k                                  ~~~~~~~~RAILROAD
70 cu_                                                                           JUNE 1997~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VNZUL









______                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Report No.:     18736
Type  IER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ....



