Document ofDo
The World Bank                                     ",
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3863b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 12, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Cr$ 105.05 (September 1981)
US$1.00 = Cr$ 155.60 (April 30, 1982)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 square meter (m2) = 10.76 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 hectare = 2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
RMR                Recife Metropolitan Region
SUDENE             Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
FIDEM              Foundation for the Development of the Metropolitan
Region of Recife
COHAB              State Low-Cost Housing Company
CRV                Capibaribe River Valley
BNH                National Housing Bank
EBTU               Brazilian Urban Transport Company
CNDU               National Urban Development Council
SG/MINTER          General Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior
SDU/MINTER         Under-Secretariat of Urban Development/Ministry of
Interior
CUC                Curado Urban Center
DIPER               State Industrial Park Company
CEBRAE             Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and
Medium Enterprises
SEPLAN             Ministry of Planning
URB                Urbanization Company of the Municipality of Recife
URJ                Urbanization Company of the Municipality of Jaboatao
SETAS              State Secretariat for Labor and Social Assistance
SUDEPE             Brazilian Agency for Fisheries Development
EMOPER              State Civil Works Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
I.  RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES ..........          ..........................   1
II.  THE RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION .......            .......................   3
III.  INSTITUTIONAL AND PLANNING FRAMEWORK .....             ...................   7
A.  National Context ...........         .............................   7
B.  The RMR Planning Process ................................   8
C.  Performance and Experience .......           .......................  12
IV.  MAIN FEATURES OF THE SUBPROJECTS ......            ......................  14
A.  Upgrading Subproject .........          ...........................  14
B.  Metropolitan Infrastructure Subproject .....            .............  15
C.  Income Creation and Enhancement Subproject ....            ..........  18
D.  Institutional Development Subproject .....            ...............  20
V.  PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN ....................  23
A.  Cost Estimates ...........................................  23
B. Financing Plan........ I                                  ........ 25
C. Flow of Funds ..................                                      25
D.  Procurement and Disbursements ............................  27
E.  Accounts and Audits ......................................  29
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................................  29
A.  Institutional Arrangements ...............................  29
B.  Legal Arrangements .......................................  36
C.  Implementation Schedule ..................................  36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Recife in October/November 1981. The mission was made up of P. L. Watson
(Chief of Mission), N. Boyle, E. Canessa, R. Chavez and E. Echeverria,
LCPUR, G. Ingram and N. Gomez, URB, and T. Cooke, C. Fortin and .J. Ladd,
CONS. Ms. D. Lallement, LC2 also participated in the mission. Mr. P.
Watson was responsible for the report, Ms. G. Yabrudy performed the
computer analyses, Mrs. A. Fransois typed and Mrs. B. Davis edited the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)            -ii-
Page
VII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, COST RECOVERY AND AFFORDABILITY ............. 37
A.  Financial Analysis of Project Agencies ...................   37
B.  Operations and Maintenance ...............................   42
C.  Cost Recovery ............................................   42
D.  Affordability ...........................................   44
VIII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ........................................   45
A.  Summnary ..................................................   45
B.  Economic Analysis ........................................   46
C.  Results of Economic Analysis .............................   46
D.  Urban Poverty Impact .....................................   47
E.  Risks ....................................................   48
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..............................................   48
ANNEXES
1. Key Indicators
2. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
CHART 1
Flow of Funds
MAP
IBRD 15941
SAR SUPPLEMENTARY VOLUME
A. Details of the Upgrading Subproject
B. Details of the Metropolitan Infrastructure Subproject
C. Details of the Income Creation and Enhancement Subproject
D. Details of the Institutional Development Subproject
E. Detailed Cost Tables



BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
1.01       Bank involvement in the urban sector in Brazil is based on the
premise that attempts to change the spatial distribution of population,
economic activity, and employment need to be complemented by well-designed
programs that deal more directly with the problems of the urban poor.
Given the scale of Brazil's urban problems and the scarcity of funds avail-
able for investment, the Bank has chosen to concentrate its efforts in key
sectors and to channel its resources through federal intermediaries. Thus,
the Bank is working with federal institutions to introduce improved methods
of analysis, an increased focus on urban poverty, and better coordination
among agencies.  To reinforce these institution-building objectives, Bank-
financed urban projects in Brazil have attempted to transfer as much as
possible of the project preparation, appraisal, and supervision responsi-
bility to the federal agencies responsible for the projects and to encour-
age the federal agencies, where appropriate, to transfer this responsibil-
ity to local agencies.   Since the federal institutions and their poverty-
oriented programs are, in general, quite new and their policies and strate-
gies are in the formative stage, the Bank's approach involves higher risks
than might be encountered in more traditional programs. This is compensat-
ed for by the higher potential benefits and the externalities beyond Bank-
financed projects.
1.02       To date, five specifically urban projects have been financed by
the Bank in Brazil. The First Urban Transport Project was approved in June
1978, the Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project in January 1979,
the Medium-Sized Cities Project in May 1979, the Second Urban Transport
Project (Porto Alegre Suburban Railway) in April 1980, and the Third Urban
Transport Project  in May 1981.   In addition,  power distribution,  water
supply and sewerage, and pollution control projects financed by the Bank in
14 states and the Federal District have important urban components.   An
engineering loan to prepare metropolitan region projects in Fortaleza and
Salvador was appraised in February 1982. Additional projects in the areas
of small and medium-sized city development, sites and services, transport,
power distribution, and water supply and sewerage are under preparation for
the period 1982-85.
Rationale for the Project
1.03      There can be no doubt that the size and growth rates of Brazil's
metropolitan areas have created severe economic and social problems not
just in terms of the physical provision of urban infrastructure and ser-
vices, but also in the planning, management, and financing of both the im-
plementation and the future operation of such services.  It is also clear
that, despite efforts to provide jobs, infrastructure, and services in
medium-sized cities, the problems of metropolitan areas will continue to
grow. Moreover, managerial and financial problems can be expected to grow
even more rapidly than the physical needs.   Thus,  the proposed project
would finance programs and projects designed to alleviate the problems of
urban growth through the more efficient and economic provision of urban
infrastructure and services, while simultaneously working to strengthen the
process of metropolitan planning,  coordination,  and administration.   In



-2-
doing this, the project would build on the experience already gained in
this type of urban development project under the Brazil Medium-Sized Cities
Project (Loan No. 1720-BR).  The project would focus on the Recife Metro-
politan Region (RMR) for two reasons:   first the RMR has one of the most
developed metropolitan planning agencies in Brazil; second, Bank staff are
quite familiar with the problems of Recife and the capacity of its institu-
tions through their involvement in urban transport, housing, and water
supply projects that include the RMR. The local institutions are, similar-
ly, familiar with Bank procedures and requirements. In addition, the proj-
ect would involve two federal entities, the Under-secretariat for Urban
Development of the Ministry of Interior (SDU/MINTER) and the Superintend-
ency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE), in an attempt to devel-
op the federal capacity to replicate this project in other metropolitan
regions.
Objectives of the Project
1.04        The efficiency with which the RMR functions depends upon the
level and quality of services and infrastructure available to its popula-
tion, the spatial distribution and organization of population and activi-
ties, the strength of the economy, and the effectiveness with which inter-
ventions in the region are managed.  The proposed project would attempt to
promote both the concept and the effective implementation of metropolitan
region development principally by strengthening the process of metropolitan
planning and management.   This would be achieved through direct institu-
tional development activities and through physical investments that would
provide important direct benefits to the RMR population while simultaneous-
ly reinforcing the role of the metropolitan region planning authority. The
proposed project would finance a coordinated set of investments addressing
the difficult issue of producing an improved institutional system of man-
agement and coordination together with a balanced spatial framework, that
would together facilitate the efficient and equitable provision of urban
infrastructure, the delivery of urban services, and the enhancement of
incomes, particularly with respect to the urban poor.
1.05       The proposed project is consistent with national policy objec-
tives of: (a) strengthening metropolitan regional planning and administra-
tion;   (b)  providing urban infrastructure  and  services;   (c)  creating
income and employment; and (d) consolidating the development of metropoli-
tan regions other than Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The project addresses
the specific needs of the inhabitants of metropolitan regions, who make up
30% of Brazil's population. It is consistent with the Bank's urban lending
strategy in Brazil, in terms of both its use of intermediaries and its dual
focus on urban efficiency and urban poverty.   Although the project would
deal with only one metropolitan region, it would serve as a pilot to estab-
lish a modus operandi for projects in other metropolitan regions.  Finally,
the project constitutes a logical step in the series of urban projects in
Brazil.  The first two were sectoral projects (transport and housing)  in
metropolitan regions; the third was a multi-sectoral project in several
medium-sized cities.  It is now appropriate to apply the lessons learned in
these projects to the problems that are to be encountered in a large metro-
politan region.
1.06      The decision to intervene in the RMR through a coordinated set of
investments requires some explanation.   Attempts to improve urban condi-
tions and promote regional development patterns are frequently made by



-3-
means of a sectoral approach, for example, through housing or transport
projects. While such approaches may be useful for starting a dialogue and
establishing relationships with a metropolitan area or may be imposed by
institutional capacity limitations, they suffer from the inadequacy of
failing to deal with urban and regional problems as the problems of a
single system.  That the problems are interdependent is clear:   providing
water without sanitation and adequate drainage aggravates health problems;
providing drainage without garbage collection reduces the efficiency of the
drainage system; providing low-cost housing without transport imposes heavy
financial and time burdens on the poor. That the solutions should be inte-
grated is less obvious; however, difficulties frequently arise when inter-
dependent problems are addressed through sectoral programs. The activities
of different agencies tend to be uncoordinated: the housing company builds
a housing estate, but the water company and the bus company fail to include
complementary investments in their budgets; or their priorities may be dif-
ferent.   Separate sectoral programs also frequently  lack the management
impulse necessary to execute projects efficiently since there is no clear
promoter of the project.  Moreover, there are some areas, such as garbage
collection and disposal or health education, that are commonly neglected by
sectoral agencies and thus fail to be dealt with.   In addition,  sectoral
programs, through lack of coordination and focus, can fail to achieve the
synergistic effects of implementing projects in concert.   An integrated
project has the potential to avoid these problems and thus produce extra
benefits that go beyond the benefits derived from the individual compo-
nents. Thus, where adequate management and coordination capacity exist, as
they do in Recife, there are important positive externalities that result
from attacking urban and regional problems in an integrated manner.  Such
externalities include reduced infrastructure costs, reduced transactions
costs, and reduced implementation delays, together with improved levels of
service provision (see para. 8.01).
1.07       Within the context of these metropolitan-level objectives,  the
proposed project has four specific objectives, that may be regarded as the
means by which the regional objectives may be attained:  (a)  provision of
improvements to housing, urban infrastructure and services within the ex-
isting urban fabric; (b) provision of metropolitan scale infrastructure and
services aimed at supporting, complementing, and inducing desired patterns
of metropolitan development;  (c)   generation and enhancement  of income,
especially for the urban poor; and (d) strengthening of the institutions
responsible for the planning, administration and financial management asso-
ciated with urban and metropolitan region development.   The project would
contain four subprojects corresponding to those broad program areas (see
Chapter IV).
II. THE RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION
2.01       Geography.  The Recife Metropolitan Region (RMR) is situated on
the eastern coast of the State of Pernambuco and formed by nine municipali-
ties--Cabo, Igarassu, Itamaraca, Jaboatao, Moreno, Olinda, Paulista,
Recife, and Sao Lourenco da Mata (see Map IBRD 15941).   The RMR occupies
approximately 2,200 square kilometers which corresponds to about 2.2% of
the area of the State.
2.02       The fluvial coastal plain of low-lying land is the site of the
central urban nucleus of the RMR, covering 89% of the urbanized area and a
total of approximately 210 km2.  To satisfy the needs for urban expansion,



-4-
much of this land has been filled and drained. The remainder of the metro-
politan region is characterized by hilly formations with steep slopes and
sedimentary shelves to the north of Recife.   In the non-urbanized part of
the RMR, sugar cane is the main product, with some coconut plantations,
orchards,  and foodstuff agriculture.   The climate of the RMR is hot and
humid, with relief coming from sea breezes from the southeast. Most of the
annual precipitation falls between the months of March and August.
2.03        There exists a dense hierarchical drainage network as well as
significant  quantities  of subterranean water  deposits.    The Capibaribe
River watershed is the main hydrographic system of the RMR; the Beberibe
River is smaller. Both are seriously polluted and generally unsuitable for
human consumption. Urban development, through construction and paving, has
tended to increase surface water runoff, placing an excessive burden on
much of the drainage system, causing repeated flooding in low-lying areas,
and interacting in some areas with climatic conditions to create disagree-
able conditions.
2.04       Population.  With a population in 1980 of 2,348,332 inhabitants,
the RMR accounts  for 38.2% of the total state population.   Table 2.1
indicates, by municipality, the urban and rural population distribution and
overall densities.
TABLE 2.1. RMR: Area and Population, by Municipality, 1980
Area                             Population
KmZ    % of                                        Density
total    Urban       Rural       Total     Pop./km2
Cabo            451    20.5      82143       22282       104425      232
Igarassu        487    22.1      52379       20840        73219       150
Itamaraca        65     3.0       6505        1754         8259       127
Jaboatao        234    10.6    316481        14442       330923     1414
Moreno          189     8.6      26249        8736        34985       185
Olinda           29     1.3    281828          --        281828     9718
Paulista        207     9.4    157951         7876       165827      801
Recife          209     9.5   1194541        10197      1204738     5764
S.L.da Mata    330    15.0    127364         16764       144128      437
RMR            2201   100.0   2245441       102891      2348332     1067
2.05        Except for the period 1950-1960 when droughts in the interior
provoked increased migration to urban centers, the overall population of
the RMR has been increasing at a diminishing rate.   Table 2.2 indicates
the percentage changes from decade to decade.
TABLE 2.2. Percentage Changes in Total RMR Population
from 1940 to 1980, by Decade
Decade                                         Percentage Increase
in Population
1940-1950                                              48
1950-1960                                              50
1960-1970                                              46
1970-1980                                              31



-5-
These decreasing overall percentages contrast with the increase in urban
population as a percentage of the total (from 75% in 1940 to 96% in 1980)
and the corresponding decrease in the rural population share.   While the
RMR population grew at 2.7% from from 1970 to 1980, the urban population
increased  3.1%,  and  the  rural  population  decreased  3.3%.    The  lowest
growth rate was recorded in the municipality of Recife (1.3%).  The highest
rates were in Paulista (9.0%), Jaboatao (5.1%) and Sao Lourengo da Mata
(4.4%).  The growth rate of the RMR is low relative to the other Brazilian
metropolitan  regions:    Belem  (4.3%),  Belo  Horizonte  (4.7%),  Curitiba
(5.8%), Fortaleza (4.3%), Porto Alegre (3.8%), Salvador (4.4%), and Sao
Paulo (4.5%); only Rio de Janeiro (2.5%) had a lower growth rate. Nonethe-
less, Recife continues to be an important element in a system of metropol-
itan regions that in 1980 accounted for 29% of Brazil's population and 43%
of its urban population.
2.06      Employment.  In 1970, 33.5% of the residents of the Recife region
were migrants. Most of these came from the interior of the Northeast, from
the sugar cane areas, which expanded and became increasingly mechanized,
and from the uncultivated hinterland where cattle raising grew and en-
croached on land once utilized for cotton growing and foodstuff agricul-
ture.  The migratory pressure on Recife and its peripheral municipalities,
together with the natural growth of the RMR's labor force, greatly sur-
passed the capacity of the labor market to absorb this increase, notwith-
standing the creation in the 1960s of SUDENE and its incentives for indus-
trialization. In the wake of these incentives, a relatively sophisticated
industrial sector developed with requirements for a qualified professional
labor force, but little opportunity existed for large numbers of workers
who were for the most part poor and unqualified.
Table 2.3. RMR and Municipality of Recife: Distribution,
by Sectors, of the Economically Active
Population,in Percentages. 1950, 1970, 1978
Activity                     Proportion of Economically Active
Sector                                  Labor Force
1950           1970           1978
Primary          RMR           14.4            7.0             5.2
Recife         2.2            0.9            0.9
Secondary        RMR           27.0           23.9            26.7
Recife        25.3           20.8           16.9
Tertiary         RMR           58.6           69.1            68.1
Recife        72.5           78.3           82.2
2.07      Nonetheless, the RMR has a well diversified economy whose service
sector has gradually evolved while a significant amount of employment has
been maintained in manufacturing.  This is illustrated by distributions of
the region's economically active population in 1950, 1970 and 1978. Table
2.3 shows that the share of employment in agriculture declined, while the
shares of employment in manufacturing and commerce remained essentially un-
changed. This is consistent with the observation that attempts to increase



-6-
the share of manufacturing were relatively unsuccesful.   In addition, the
concentration of the urban labor force in commercial and service activities
has been accompanied by a high level of unemployment and underemployment in
the tertiary sector.   In 1977, in the RMR, 45% of the active labor force
was earning less than one regional minimum salary, and 79% less than three
minimum salaries.  The proportion earning less than one minimum salary in
the tertiary sector was twice as high as the secondary sector.
2.08      Spatial Considerations.  The population data from recent censuses
show clearly that the RMR has been undergoing significant decentralization
in recent decades. The percentage of the RMR population in the municipali-
ty of Recife dropped from 64% in 1950 and 1960 to 59% in 1970 and 51% in
1980.  Population density in the peripheral municipalities grew at a con-
stant 60% from 1960-70 and from 1970-80, while the density in the munici-
pality of Recife grew at 30% from 1960-70 and at only 16% from 1970-80.
Statistically estimated population density functions confirm this tenden-
cy.  The data on the distribution of employment show less distinct decen-
tralization trends.   The percentage  of manufacturing  employment  in the
municipality of Recife rose from 59% in 1950 to 63% in 1970; the percentage
of commerce in Recife remained constant at 79%.   The employment density
gradient data confirm this.   Although data are not available for 1980,
field observations indicate that manufacturing employment has continued to
decentralize, particularly to Paulista and Jaboatao, while commerce activ-
ities have probably remained concentrated in Recife.
2.09        RMR's Role in the Macro-Region.   The influence of the Recife
Metropolitan Region extends over an area of approximately 900,000 km2, in-
cluding 117 municipalities, covering the States of Pernambuco, Alagoas,
Paraiba, and Rio Grande do Norte, and parts of Sergipe, Bahia, Ceara, and
Maranhao.   Studies carried out in 1970 by the Brazilian Geographical and
Statistical Institute demonstrate that Recife, as a metropolitan center,
maintained about 4,000 different functional relationships within the North-
east Region, of which more than 2,000 are identified within its immediate
area of influence.   Approximately half of these 2,000 relationships are
linked to the distribution of goods and services, especially retail activi-
ties, specialized medical services, and education.  As a wholesale center,
Recife's role is less significant. Although 26% of the northeast region's
manufactured goods in 1970 were produced in the RMR, its industrial leader-
ship is restricted to its more immediate area of influence, since the RMR
meets strong competition from industrial centers in Bahia, Ceara, and
Alagoas. Culturally, the RMR functions as the principal educational center
in the northeast.   Especially at the university level, Recife exercises a
strong influence within the macro-region.
2.10       Access to Services.  When substandard housing is included, the
housing deficit  of  the RMR was  estimated  in  1970  to be approximately
121,800 dwelling units or 37% of the total housing stock. Of this percent-
age, 29% were slums and 26% were situated in Recife.   In 1978, thirty-one
large low-income settlements were identified within the RMR, nineteen of
which were located in flood-prone areas and twelve on hilly slopes.  A po-
pulation of 1,135,000 was estimated to reside in 210,000 dwelling units in
these areas.
2411      In 1977, of the total number of permanent private dwelling units
in the RMR, only 37.3% had showers, 43% water filters, and 45% refrigera-
tors.  In that year, the residential density per bedroom was greater than



-7-
two (the recommended limit) in 49% of total RMR dwelling units.  The sewer
network covered only 19% of dwelling units; 52% had only rudimentary septic
tanks;  only 55% were linked to city water systems;  and only 45% had gar-
bage collection.   Electric lighting was the public service that was most
readily accessible, serving 83% of dwelling units.
2.12      In the RMR, 76% of total daily trips are made using public trans-
port, 46% of which terminate in or originate from the central area of
Recife, where private automobile congestion diminishes the average bus
speed to less than 12 km/h.   The loss  in system efficiency  is further
aggravated by the conflict between government-established fares and service
quality.   Inflation raises operating costs and lowers the profits of bus
companies who charge higher fares and reduce the quality of transport ser-
vice provided.   Government  authorities  are  caught  between pressures  to
satisfy the needs of the bus companies and to limit the passing on of in-
creased costs to customers who live in distant peripheral neighborhoods and
have low incomes.
2.13       In 1969, 56% of the child population in the RMR between the ages
of 0 and 4 demonstrated varying degrees of malnutrition. In Recife itself,
60% of deaths of children less than 5 years old were attributable to infec-
tious diseases, generally associated with malnutrition.   In 1970, 38% of
the RMR population could not read or write, and 63% of those who entered
the first grade in 1967 did not register for the fourth grade, indicating a
high level of school dropouts.  With respect to leisure and recreation, in
1980, the proportion of public green areas per capita was only 0.8 m2,
considerably less than the 12 m2 minimum proposed by the United Nations.
III. INSTITUTIONAL AND PLANNING FRAMEWORK
A. National Context
3.01        Policy.   Formulation of a national urban policy began with the
Second National Development Plan for the period 1975-1979.  The policy was
based on the proposition that recent urbanization trends had introduced
serious distortions in the national urban structure and in spatial organi-
zation, had exacerbated problems of poverty, underemployment, and infra-
structure deficiencies in urban centers and had created disparities among
and within regions.   The Plan recommended:   (a) that the administrative
systems of metropolitan regions should be strengthened and the provision of
basic infrastructure consolidated, while taking measures to prevent further
concentration of population and economic activity in the southeast region,
particularly in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo; and (b) that medium-sized
cities should be developed to strengthen the second tier of the urban
structure and develop cities in the interior. The same ideas were taken up
again in the III PND (1980-85), where they were set more clearly in the
context of Brazil's macroeconomic goals of rapid growth with redistribu-
tion, combating inflation, and reducing the balance of payment deficit.
3.02       Agencies and Programs.   The three main federal agencies in the
urban sector are: the National Urban Development Council (CNDU), an inter-
ministerial council established in 1975 to be responsible for overall urban
policy and programming; the National Housing Bank (BNH), created in 1964
and responsible for investments in housing and complementary infrastructure
(water supply, sewerage, etc.); and the Brazilian Urban Transport Company
(E3TU), founded in 1976 and responsible for urban transport  investments.



-8-
Through these agencies, the Brazilian Government is attempting to achieve
its urban development goals by means of a variety of programs.   The more
important are the metropolitan regions program and the medium-sized cities
program (administered by CNDU), the Popular Housing Program, the Water and
Sewerage Program, and the Urban Rehabilitation Program (administered by
BNH), and the Urban Transport Program (administered by EBTU).   BNH domi-
nates the federal urban investment budget: its 1980 investment program was
Cr$152 billion (US$2.33 billion), 92% of the total.  EBTU accounted for 7%
of the total with Cr$12.1 billion and CNDU for 1% with Cr$1.3 billion.
3.03       Brazilian Metropolitan Regions System.  The difficulties of pro-
viding adequate urban services in the face of urban growth trends that were
producing physically integrated but administratively independent conurba-
tions have long been recognized in Brazil:   in 1967, the revised Federal
Constitution included enabling legislation that foresaw the creation of
"metropolitan  regions" to facilitate  the provision  of  common  services.
However, it was not until 1973 that the first eight metropolitan regions--
Sao Paulo, Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre, Curitiba, Recife, Salvador,
Fortaleza, and Belem--were created (Lei Complementar No. 14; June 8,
1973).   Rio de Janeiro was added in 1974.   The metropolitan regions law
required the creation, by the respective states, of Advisory and Delibera-
tive Councils, the former with a normative oversight function and the lat-
ter with responsibility for:  (a) the preparation of integrated metropoli-
tan region development plans and programs for the provision of common ser-
vices; and (b) the coordination and execution of programs and projects of
metropolitan scope, with the objective of unifying, where possible, common
services.   The law defined  "common services" to include:  (a) integrated
development planning; (b) basic sanitation (water, sewerage, and garbage
collection); (c) metropolitan land use; (d) transportation and the road
system; (e) the production and distribution of piped gas; and (f) water
resource use and pollution control.
3.04        The law has two particularly interesting features.   It clearly
establishes that the states are responsible for ensuring that common ser-
vices are programmed and provided in metropolitan regions in a coordinated
manner.  It also attempts to support the Deliberative Councils in a practi-
cal way by establishing that municipalities participating in the activities
of the Deliberative Councils will be given preference in the allocation of
state and federal resources.   This provision was strengthened by a subse-
quent decree that established that federal funds could be used in metropo-
litan regions only for projects that were compatible with the metropolitan
development plan.  The law that created the metropolitan region of Rio de
Janeiro contained two innovations.   First, to reduce the difficulties of
coordination among state agencies, the Governor of the State was appointed
chairman of the Deliberative Council.  Second, it established a metropoli-
tan region development fund to finance priority programs and projects. The
fund could receive state and federal budget and nonbudget resources, but it
could also absorb internal or external borrowing.
B. The RMR Planning Process
3.05      Following the formal creation of the RMR, the State of Pernambuco
in 1974 created the required Deliberative and Advisory Councils. The for-
mer is made up by five members appointed by the Governor and the latter



-9--
is made up by representatives from the state and the nine municipalities in
the RMR.  Both councils are chaired by the Governor.   A year later,  the
state established the Foundation for the Development of the Metropolitan
Region of Recife (FIDEM), an entity reporting to the State Secretariat of
Planning, to provide technical assistance and administrative support to the
councils.  By statute, FIDEM is responsible for:   (a) integrated planning
for metropolitan development; (b) programming and coordination of sectoral
investments of metropolitan interest; (c) coordination of the operations of
the federal, state and municipal governments in the RMR; (d) administrative
modernization of the weaker municipalities in the RMR; (e) execution of
public works and operation of public services of metropolitan interest; and
(f) administrative support for the Advisory and Deliberative Councils.
3.06       FIDEM operates as the metropolitan planning agency in a complex
planning  context within  an intricate  institutional framework.   In most
cases, municipalities or state companies are responsible for investments in
the metropolitan region.  Thus, FIDEM has to deal with nine municipalities
and the state companies responsible for inter alia, water supply and sani-
tation (COMPESA:   Companhia Estadual de Saneamento),  for housing (COHAB:
Companhia  de Habitacao  Popular),  for  highways  (DER:    Departamento  de
Estradas de Rodagem), for electricity (CELPE:   Companhia de Eletricidade
Pernambucana),   and  for  telecommunications   (TELPE:         Telecomunicacoes
Pernambucanas).    The  state  companies  establish  investment  programs  and
priorities in a relatively independent manner, as do the municipalities.
The state companies and municipalities may or may not work in concert.  An
additional factor is the federally-biased financing system for urban infra-
structure.  The state companies and the municipalities generally negotiate
directly with federal agencies such as BNH and EBTU.   In the absence of
legislation clearly establishing FIDEM's role and authority, it is largely
dependent on persuasion to obtain cooperation from the municipalities and
state companies. FIDEM has consistently taken the view that its efforts to
convince and persuade would be dependent on its ability to produce effec-
tive technical arguments  based on competent analysis and reliable data.
Thus, one of its priorities from the beginning has been the preparation of
a planning system that links proposed investment programs to an approved
metropolitan development strategy.
3.07      The RMR Development Plan.  In 1976, FIDEM produced the Integrated
Development Plan (PDI) for the RMR.  It was the first step towards a coor-
dinated approach to the metropolitan area through the articulation of sec-
toral programs and investments. In accordance with national planning leg-
islation, it was formally submitted to and approved by CNDU. Although the
plan originally spanned the period from 1976 to 1979, it remains the basic
document from which all development planning is derived.   The PDI deals
with the most pressing problems of the RMR and is essentially general in
its approach.  It contains a diagnosis of the RMR's deficiences and major
problems, a statement of the recommended development policy, sectoral popu-
lation in the development process; (b) inability of the metropolitan econo-
my to absorb surplus labor; (c) very uneven income distribution; (d) in-
ability of broad sectors of the metropolitan population to bear the costs
of housing and urban services as now structured; (e) transfer of the costs
of providing services from the upper-income to the lower-income groups; (f)
speculation and the high cost of urban land; and (g) inability of the "sys-
tem  to satisfy the needs of most of the population or to avoid the bene-
fits of development investments being channeled largely to higher income



-10-
groups.   As a result of this diagnosis, five general strategies were de-
signed to achieve the following policy objectives:   (a) strengthening the
RMR's economic base; (b) increasing the incomes and services available to
the lower income groups; (c) rationalization of the spatial occupation of
the RMR; (d) ecological and cultural protection and preservation; and (e)
coordinated political-institutional action.   The PDI establishes spatial
guidelines to guide the form that urban development should take and pre-
sents in general terms sectoral programs and priorities.
3.08      Sectoral Development Plans.  Within the general framework of the
PDI, FIDEM organized the production of sectoral development plans for areas
such as transport, water supply, tourism, etc.  In some cases, FIDEM hired
consultants to produce these plans.   In others, it worked through state
sectoral agencies.   Sometimes  it helped  to finance the sectoral plans.
These plans provide much more detail on individual problems, programs,
projects, and priorities for a given sector.  They also provide an excel-
lent vehicle for bringing together the planning and executing agencies in
such a way as to ensure that the needs of each are met.   In successful
cases, the results are very positive; in others, FIDEM has encountered re-
sistance to this type of coordinated, participatory planning process.
3.09        Territorial Organization Plan.   In parallel with the sectoral
development plans, FIDEM prepared the Territorial Organization Plan (POT),
that details the PDI's guidelines for the physical-spatial organization of
the metropolitan region, and which was completed in 1980.  The POT proposes
that urban growth should occur largely in four nuclei (see Map IBRD 15941):
(a)  Central, made up of the city of Recife and the coastal areas
of Olinda and Jaboatao;
(b)  Western, consisting of the crescent-shaped urban area made
up of Jaboatao and Sao Lourenco da Mata and the periphery of
Recife;
(c) Southern, made up by the city and industrial area of Cabo
and the future port and industrial area of Suape; and
(d)  Northern,  comprising the conurbation of small towns along
the BR-101 highway between Paulista and Igarassu.
In arriving at this proposal,  the plan took into consideration:   (a) the
need to preserve and protect the water catchment areas for the metropolitan
region; and (b) the desire to promote a more even and balanced growth of
the urban area, avoiding excessive concentration in the center, high travel
times and costs from peripheral residential areas to central work destina-
tions, and high costs for the provision of urban infrastructure. Thus, the
POT stresses industrial development, with supporting residential, commer-
cial and service areas, in the northern and southern nuclei;   commercial
and administrative activities, with the corresponding residential support
areas in the western nucleus; and some densification of the central
nucleus. The interstices (areas between the different nuclei), are intend-
ed to be kept at relatively lower densities, fostering the relative self-
sufficiency of the separate nuclei. The POT has a basically sound, common-
sense approach:   it takes the urban development process in RMR as it has
occurred in recent decades and attempts to channel and guide it, without
attempting radical changes, in order to achieve a more balanced, equitable
growth pattern.



-11-
3.10        Other Development Plans.  Four municipalities have prepared and
approved municipal development plans.  The plans of Recife and Olinda pre-
date the establishment of the RMR and FIDEM.  Both of these municipalities
are adjusting or modifying their plans to comply more closely with the PDI
and POT. In the case of Igarassu and Jaboatao, their plans, which appeared
in  the past  two years,    have  generally  respected  FIDEM's  development
plans. In general, FIDEM has grown in stature in the eyes of the munici-
palities, and little municipal planning is carried out without prior con-
sultation with the metropolitan planning agency.  Coordination between the
state sectoral agencies and FIDEM is not as well developed as that between
the municipalties and FIDEM, but considerable progress has been made.
FIDEM is now able to make significant inputs to the programs and projects
undertaken by state agencies.
3.11      Priority Public Investment Plan.  On the basis of the Territorial
Organization Plan and the Sectoral Development Plan, FIDEM produced prior-
ity public investment plans (PIP) for 1976-79 and for 1980-83. The PIP is
an indicative budget for the priority investments in five basic areas:  (a)
support to productive activities; (b) housing and urban development; (c)
transportation; (d) environmental sanitation; and (e) planning and adminis-
tration. Investments proposed in the PIP are intended to guide municipal,
state, and federal actions in the RMR.  The investments are of two types:
corrective--that is, projects which attempt to remedy existing situations,
such as upgrading of squatter settlements, improvement of garbage collec-
tion and disposal, widening of road-ways, etc.; and preventive--such as
location of commercial and residential development in the western nucleus,
establishment of industry and related services in the northern and southern
nuclei, and orderly urban development of the Capibaribe River Valley.
Table 3.1 shows the proposed investments for five strategic areas for the
1980-82 period and what has been committed in the federal, state, and
municipal budgets.   The  data reveal a considerable degree  of progress
towards the targets.   The position should improve further with the Bank-
financed investments programmed for 1983 and beyond.  Although FIDEM still
has to improve the procedures used to monitor progress on the PIP, the
evidence suggests that it has had some success not only in working with
agencies to obtain investment resources, but also in promoting the desired
balance of investments between key areas.
TABLE 3.1.  Proposed and Actual RMR Investments, 1980-82
Million Cruzeiros
Proposeda/       Actual         Budget as
PIP for          Budgeted       Percentage
1980-82          1980-82        of PIP
Support to productive
activities                       16,076            6,316            38
Housing and urban development       54,284           30,288             56
Transportation                      30,990           21,272             69
Environmental sanitation            13,228            9,549             72
Planning and administration            856               739            86
a/    Table shows only the 1980-82 section of the PIP since comparable
figures are available for actual and committed investments.



-12-
C. Performance and Experience
3.12        National Experience.   Although some regions--Sao Paulo, Porto
Alegre, and Belo Horizonte--had metropolitan planning agencies before the
formal creation of the metropolitan regions, effective metropolitan region
planning began through the Deliberative Councils, which rapidly established
metropolitan planning agencies to carry out the technical functions of the
councils.   Four states--Sao Paulo, Pernambuco,  Bahia,  and Para--followed
the Rio de Janeiro precedent and also established metropolitan region dev-
elopment funds.   Performance of the metropolitan region planning agencies
has been very mixed.   In some cases, they have been active and effective;
in others, they have achieved very little.  The reason for the differences
lies in the absence, in the legislation, of formal powers for the councils
and their technical planning agencies.   Thus, ability to carry out their
roles depends greatly on the importance attached to metropolitan operations
by the Governor, the prestige, diplomacy and political adeptness of the
agencies' staffs, and the degree of cooperation obtained from the munici-
palities.   In all cases, metropolitan region development plans have been
produced and approved by the federal government, but the degree to which
the planning agencies have been able to persuade municipalities and state
agencies to respect the plans has varied considerably.
3.13       Difficulties have arisen at the three levels of government.  The
federal government, through CNDU and its executive arm SDU/MINTER, has pro-
vided considerable support for the metropolitan regions. However, compared
with BNH and EBTU, SDU/MINTER's investments are very small and it has been
unable to break the stranglehold of sectoral thinking with respect to me-
tropolitan region programs and projects.  At the state level, difficulties
have also become apparent, specifically in the areas of coordination and
legal jurisdiction.   Few states, if any, have achieved an adequate modus
operandi between state executing agencies and the metropolitan planning
agency.  Without a clear definition of responsibilities and lines of com-
mand, coordination is difficult and conflict not uncommon. In addition, it
is only recently that the federal government has enacted land use legis-
lation.   Without it, state governments were unable to control land use.
Now that it exists, it has to be translated into state and municipal in-
struments.  The whole process is proving to be slow and difficult, and few
states have made real progress.   Finally,  no state has as yet enacted
legislation dealing  specifically with  the metropolitan region.   At the
municipal level, conflicts have, as expected, arisen between metropolitan
interests and priorities and the constitutional autonomy of the municipali-
ties. Moreover, conflicts have also arisen between the major municipality
in each region and the metropolitan agency.   This, however,  is probably
inevitable, given the technical and political strength of these municipali-
ties, the role of the metropolitan agencies, and the scarcity of re-
sources.
3.14       On the positive side, it may be concluded that the metropolitan
agencies have performed a useful function under difficult circumstances.
At worst, they have developed metropolitan development plans, sensitized
state agencies and municipalities to metropolitan issues, focused the
thinking of federal agencies on metropolitan-level problems, and created a
forum for technical and political debate.  At best, they have had a pro-
found influence on the regional allocation of resources; they have
strengthened the planning process; they have coordinated the investment
programs of municipal, state, and federal agencies; and they have provided



-13-
valuable assistance on administration and financial management to the weak-
er municipalities.   Overall, given the difficulties associated with their
creation and operation, it may be concluded that they are a valuable addi-
tion to the planning and budgeting process and merit decisive efforts to
strengthen their capabilities and to enable them to perform their functions
more effectively.
3.15      RMR Experience.  FIDEM relies heavily on the quality of its tech-
nical work to convince other agencies to respect the metropolitan develop-
ment plan. In this respect, FIDEM has been quite successful. FIDEM start-
ed with a well-qualified, competent staff, and is ably managed. An indica-
tion of FIDEM's capacity is the fact that, one year after its creation,
FIDEM produced the Integrated Development Plan for the RMR, followed close-
ly by the production of the other plans described above.   Overall,  the
municipalities and state agencies respect FIDEM's technical staff and their
work. FIDEM is, however, aware that most of its work to date has concen-
trated on macrolevel physical planning. In the future, it needs to concen-
trate more on: (a) the translation of its existing plans into detailed land
use recommendations and regulations; and (b) the integration of economic
planning into the physical planning process.
3.16      In spite of the difficult political and institutional situation,
FIDEM has had some positive experiences and has been increasingly success-
ful in persuading different agencies to comply with metropolitan policies
and objectives.  As a result, FIDEM's authority is increasingly recognized
and its role in the metropolitan planning process accepted.  One example of
successful coordination and compatibility of objectives among different
agencies is in the case of basic sanitation, water resources and environ-
mental protection.   SUDENE,  a regional federal agency,  is the technical
agent for the national lending agency for water supply and sewerage proj-
ects (BNH).  COMPESA, the state water company, executes these projects and
is the water supplier for all the municipalities. Within the framework of
FIDEM's metropolitan plan, all the above agencies, including FIDEM, have
managed to develop a form of integrated programming and budgeting. In the
case of municipal land-use planning and control, notable progress has also
been made. In 1975, only one municipality (Recife) had a planning depart-
ment.  In all, there were two land-use plans, one land and building regis-
ter, and four building and/or zoning codes. Today, the picture has changed
rather dramatically:   all nine municipalities have planning departments,
there are five land-use plans, nine land and building registers, and six
building and/or zoning codes.   This change has resulted largely through
FIDEM's program of technical assistance to the municipalities, as well as
the state's overall emphasis on planning and urban development.  The tech-
nical assistance program has also had important benefits in terms of im-
proved municipal administration and financial managment.
3.17         FIDEM is also developing state laws that, if approved, would
significantly consolidate its authority.   One example is in the area of
land-use planning and control.   A new federal law on subdivisions speci-
fically gives metropolitan agencies the authority to decide what land is
"urbanizable"  in  the metropolitan  area  and  to approve  land-use  ratios
(i.e., percentage of land for dwellings, circulation, green areas, etc.)
and urban design proposals for new subdivisions. Municipalities also ap-
prove such projects and this overlap of responsibilities had led to some
confusion and duplication.   But FIDEM and municipal authorities have made



-14-
considerable progress on working out practical ways to put the provisions
of the law into operation.  In fact, FIDEM now approves all subdivisions in
the metropolitan region.   These instruments,  together with a more wide-
ranging state land-use and zoning law that is being drafted, give FIDEM in-
creasing control and ability to enforce the guidelines of the metropolitan
development plan as far as the growth of the urban area is concerned.
3.18       The funding system for urban infrastructure also limits FIDEM's
authority.    Only a small  share of investments  is financed  through the
FIDEM-controlled Metropolitan Region Development Fund (FUNDERM) and the
executing agencies can, and do, deal directly with federal funding agen-
cies.  This leads to a situation in which the availability of federal re-
sources and the local political ability to obtain them becomes a dispropor-
tionately large factor in the allocation process.  As a result, there is a
risk that incompatible investments may be undertaken or that important com-
plementary investments may be delayed or eliminated.   In an attempt to
minimize these risks, FIDEM tries to operate as a broker in the system, on
the basis of up-to-date intelligence on the demand for investment funds and
their supply.  Thus, it can aid the municipalities and state companies in
their attempts to fund their programs in an integrated way.
3.19      Overall, it may be concluded that FIDEM has done a good job under
difficult conditions.  Many improvements could be made; some of which are
proposed under the project.   The task ahead is to improve the technical
tools available to FIDEM at the same time as working towards legislation
that will consolidate in juridical terms the authority that FIDEM has de-
veloped through ad hoc diplomacy and persuasion.
IV. MAIN FEATURES OF THE SUBPROJECTS
A. Upgrading Subproject
4.01          This  subproject would  finance  the upgrading of poor areas
(favelas) in the two largest municipalities in the RMR--Recife and Jaboa-
tao.   To date, upgrading attempts in the RMR have been largely concentrat-
ed close to the center of the Municipality of Recife in the quadrant that
includes the Avenida Norte, with minor interventions in the southern sec-
tor.   Under this project,  the program would be expanded to include poor
areas in the sector outside the Second Perimetral and between the River
Capibaribe/Avenida Caxanga and the southern limits of Jaboatao (see Map
IBRD 15941).   The subproject would include components in both Recife and
Jaboatao.  The Recife components are further divided into the areas to be
upgraded by the municipality and those to be upgraded by COHAB. Thus, the
subproject has three parallel components, plus a component covering the
complementary investments in trunk infrastructure and facilities.
4.02        The Municipality of Recife Component (US$57.00 million) would
provide for the upgrading of 20 low-income settlements or neighborhoods,
mostly in the southern catchment area of the Capibaribe River Valley. The
total area to be covered is 239 ha and contains a population of 67,800.
The Municipality of Jaboatao Component (US$16.01 million) would provide for
upgrading in 27 poor neighborhoods, with a population of about 57,000. The
COHAB Component (US$27.83 million) would include nine neighborhoods with a
population of about 30,000. The types of settlement vary from well-estab-
lished areas to recent squatter activity. The areas are either very steep,
hilly areas or low-lying, swampy areas, subject to frequent flooding.  The



-15-
criteria for selection of the areas specify that, for each poor area: (a)
seventy percent of families must have incomes below the relative urban
poverty threshold; (b) gross population densities must exceed 200 persons
per hectare; (c) the majority of families must lack secure land tenure; and
(d) all or most of the basic urban services (water, sewerage, drainage,
paved roads, and community facilities) must be lacking.
4.03        The interventions that would be included in the subproject in-
clude legalization of tenure, landfill in low-lying areas, drainage, street
paving, stairways in steep areas, water distribution, sanitation facili-
ties, loans for home improvements, and community facilities, such as
schools, health posts, and community centers.   The subproject would also
include a Complementary Infrastructure Component (US$24.53 million) to
provide those improvements to trunk infrastructure in the general vicinity
of the poor areas that are required to ensure the efficient operation of
the upgrading measures.   Facilities to be improved include drainage chan-
nels, water distribution networks, secondary roads and community recreation
areas.  (For details of these and other components, see the SAR Supplemen-
tary Volume).
B. Metropolitan Infrastructure Subproject
4.04      This subproject includes components in the Northern, Western, and
Central nuclei.   Although the projects are spatially distinct and func-
tionally independent, they are integrally coordinated in the sense that
each one of them supports the land-use plan and spatial structure proposed
in the RMR development plan:   the central nucleus should be consolidated
through infilling on vacant land; the northern nucleus has received reason-
able amounts of industrial infrastructure and housing, but requires an ade-
quate transport spine to structure and provide a focus for development;
the western nucleus already has some industry and housing, and needs to
develop the commercial activities that will enable it to function as the
RMR's secondary commercial center serving the western part of Recife to-
gether with Jaboatao and Sao Lourenco da Mata.   Expansion of housing is
also required in the western nucleus together with industrial developments
to complement  existing facilities.   Finally,  the garbage collection and
disposal component would support the municipalities in their traditional
collection activities and ensure adequate disposal through the creation of
a metropolitan agency to be responsible for garbage disposal, together with
the necessary facilities.
4.05        BR-101 Metropolitan Corridor (US$27.24 million).   The current
BR-101 between Paulista and Igarassu is a heavily-travelled, two-lane high-
way with soft shoulders.   Traffic is mixed, with an unusually high con-
centration of commercial vehicles.   The proposed component would upgrade
this road to a metropolitan transport axis with four lanes for mixed
traffic, a separate right-of-way for buses, cycle paths, and, in the built-
up sections, parking and sidewalks.  In urbanistic terms, the provision of
this type of facility has been shown (for example, in Curitiba) to provide
assured access by public and private transport and, thus, to attract higher
rates of urban growth at higher densities. In transport terms, the facili-
ty would reduce expenditures on vehicle operating costs, travel times, road
maintenance and accidents.
4.06        Curado Urban Center (CUC)  (US$14.87 million).   This component
would provide the urban infrastructure necessary for the development of the



-16-
Curado area as the secondary urban center of the RMR with a predominantly
commercial vocation. The development would cover about 110 ha, located at
the junction of the BR-408 and BR-232 highways and adjacent to the new re-
gional transport terminal, the university, an industrial park, and three
COHAB housing estates.   The center would include areas for commercial de-
velopment, small-scale industry, services, and warehousing, a park (using
land unsuitable for building), and 2,000 dwelling units for lower-middle
income groups.   The component would include only the urban infrastructure
for the center.   The urbanized land would then be sold to developers for
the construction of the commercial buildings, to private firms for the con-
struction of factories and warehouses, and to the state middle-income hous-
ing company (INOCOOP) for the construction of the housing.   This type of
operation enables FIDEM to control the development and ensure the desired
layouts and mix of activities without the expense of carrying out the total
development. The component would include earthmoving and site preparation,
drainage and road paving, water and sanitation networks (including supply
lines, collection networks, pumping stations, and oxidization ponds).
Electricity distribution and telephone networks would also be provided, but
would not be financed under the project.   It was agreed at negotiations
that the relevant State and Municipal authorities will provide and finance
the necessary installations, not only for CUC, but also for the Jaboatao
Industrial Park and the Capibaribe River Valley Development (see para. 9.02
(a)).  To ensure orderly occupation of the site, FIDEM would, by June 30,
1983, carry out a micro-zoning and marketing strategy study satisfactory to
the Bank. This was confirmed at negotiations (see para. 9.02 (b)).
4.07        Curado IV Housing Development (US$45.51 million).   To complete
the residential development envelope of the south quadrant around the
Curado Urban Center, COHAB would construct a low-income housing development
of 4,500 dwelling units on 131 ha to serve a population of about 22,500
persons. This component will assist in achieving the necessary balance of
residential areas to work areas.   Three types of dwelling unit would be
provided:   1,420 stepped-terraced row units;  920 core (embryo) units; and
2,164 apartment units. A main vehicular road would connect with the exist-
ing Curado II and III developments and provide access to the CUC.  Second-
ary roads and stairways would provide access to the residential sectors and
community facilities, and a pedestrian network would link the housing areas
to the community facilities and to a central commercial zone.   Community
facilities, such as schools, parks, and commercial areas, would also be
provided.   To ensure an efficient start to project execution, COHAB has
already obtained BNR's approval of the site occupation plan.
4.08       Jaboatao Industrial Park (US$9.09 million).  Jaboatao is part of
the western nucleus of the RMR about four km southwest of the CUC complex.
It is an industrial and service community with many small industries locat-
ed on small plots with inadequate facilities.   This project would provide
for the construction of 28 industrial workshops in a mini-industrial estate
one km southeast of the center of Jaboatao. The workshops would be sold to
interested firms. It was agreed at negotiations that the State would ensure
that DIPER charges sales prices that cover the full costs of land, all
infrastructure, operation, maintenance, and administration (see para. 9.02
(c)) -
4.09       Capibaribe River Valley Development (US$34.07 million).  As the
city of Recife grew and densified over the past couple of decades, frequent



-17-
floods of the Capibaribe River became increasingly costly in terms of pro-
perty damages and human suffering.   The National Department of Sanitation
Works (DNOS) undertook a major river control effort that included the con-
struction of three dams (Carpira, Tapacura, and Goita) and the rectifica-
tion and enlargement of the river bed along several reaches.   As a result,
about 236 ha of prime urban land along the river have become available in
the center of the metropolitan region, land which is of easy access and
readily serviceable by the adjoining urban infrastructure networks.   The
objective of this component is to incorporate the newly available area into
the urban network through orderly development for residential use and for
related facilities and services.   Land urbanized by the Municipality of
Recife would be sold to the state low- and middle-income housing companies
and to private developers for the construction of the housing units.  The
Municipality of Recife has obtained from COHAB and INOCOOP commitments to
buy the urbanized land for appropriate housing developments. Specifically,
urban infrastructure would be provided for 10,118 dwelling units for dif-
ferent income groups: 0-3 minimum salaries, 3,036 units; 4-5 minimum sala-
ries, 2,425 units; 6-12 minimum salaries, 3,640 units; and more than 12
minimum salaries,  1,017 units.   This mix of units provides  the maximum
cross-subsidization of low-income units that is compatible with full-cost
recovery.   Part of the lowest-income group units would be urbanized lots
set aside for the relocation of the 1,320 squatter families within the
component area.  Nine park areas would be constructed (largely on the non
aedificandi reserve or other low-lying land adjacent to the river) includ-
ing sport fields, landscaping, the restoration of historical buildings, and
a cycle path along the river bank for transportation and recreational pur-
poses.  Infrastructure networks would be included as follows:  primary and
secondary roads, pedestrian ways, cycle paths, street lighting, water, and
sewerage networks. Also included are four pedestrian bridges over the Ca-
pibaribe to improve access to jobs and shops, and one vehicular bridge to
integrate the new development with the urban area on the other side of the
river.
4.10        Garbage Collection and Disposal Component (US$38.45 million).
The municipalities that make up the RMR are responsible for the collection
and disposal of garbage.  However, only 45% of the garbage produced in the
region is collected.   The majority of it ends up in ad hoc rubbish dumps,
in streams and rivers, and in drainage channels.  Part of the problem is a
lack of primary collection equipment, but a major element of the problem is
the lack of adequate disposal sites.   The central municipalities produce
the most garbage but have the most limited land available for disposal.
Thus, there exists a regional problem of balancing the production of gar-
bage with its safe and efficient disposal.   This component would augment
the fleet of collection vehicles and organize disposal on a metropolitan
basis. Additions to the garbage collection fleet necessary to achieve 100%
primary and secondary collection and disposal were calculated. Two hundred
and eighty vehicles would be purchased.   Neighborhood collection stations
with containers for depositing refuse would be included, especially in in-
accessible poor areas. Equipment for street, land, and storm drain clean-
ing would also be included. Garages and maintenance shops would be provid-
ed  in  the  five  major municipalities.   Two  transfer  stations would be
provided in Olinda and Recife South.  Two disposal sites would be bought,
equipped, and put into operation.  Using a technology that is currently in
operation in Sao Paulo, both would be equipped and operated to produce bio-
gas (methane) that would be transmitted to adjacent industries who have
expressed their desire to use all that could be generated in the immediate



-18-
future. Operation of these sites would be carefully monitored to establish
the levels of bio-gas production that are practical under the conditions of
northeast Brazil.   This component would enable FIDEM to carry out one of
its principal but most neglected roles, that of stimulating the development
of new solutions to metropolitan problems in the absence of state or muni-
cipal capacity or agencies designed to do the job.   In this respect, the
component would also finance the initial operation (up to a maximum of two
years) by FIDEM of the garbage disposal system (see para. 6.18).  From the
point of view of strengthening FIDEM's ability to carry out its role, this
is one of the most important components in the project.
C. Income Creation and Enhancement Subproject (US$21.26 million)
4.11       A common comment with respect to Brazilian cities is that the
supply of jobs has failed to keep pace with the demand.  Reliable data on
this topic are notoriously difficult to obtain, but there are several in-
dications that the lack of full-time employment or the prevalence of low-
paying employment is a serious problem.   The clearest data are on income.
Nineteen seventy Census data show that 76% of families in the RMR earned
less than three minimum salaries--the Bank's poverty level--while 16% of
families earned less than one minimum salary--the Brazilian minimum sub-
sistence level for an individual. Although open unemployment rates do not
appear to be very high (Recife, 1970 = 6.5%), an additional 16% of the
labor force was reported to be working less than 40 hours per week and may
be considered to be underemployed. Other data indicate that, in 1980, 24%
of the RMR labor force was underemployed.   The overall figures, however,
conceal much higher rates for certain groups.  The poverty group is often
characterized by low skill levels and poor access to markets:   the labor
market in the case of individuals, and the consumer market in the case of
firms.  Thus, the small firm and the individual worker are prime targets
for intervention.   In addition, their very numbers make them an opportune
target. It is estimated that there are 120,000 small-scale enterprises and
200,000 self-employed or independent workers in the RMR. Brazilian experi-
ence indicates that a small firm that receives managerial and technical
assistance and supervised access to credit is likely to create an average
of two new jobs.  These two facts open up the possibility that it may be
easier to create new employment opportunities and enhance income through
small rather than large firms.   Since the Pernambuco state and municipal
authorities already have extensive programs to facilitate access to credit,
services, and infrastructure for large firms, the proposed subproject will
concentrate on programs aimed at the small firm and the independent work-
er.  The strategy is to assist in the expansion of proven programs and to
undertake pilot operations in promising, but as yet untried, areas.
4.12       Assistance to Micro-Enterprises Component.  Micro-enterprises in
the RMR have an average of four workers;  they tend to conduct their busi-
ness at home or from home;   they produce goods and services for the poor
that are in demand because there are frequently no affordable substitutes;
they receive no assistance from the formal sector; and they have little or
no access to formal credit sources.   Yet evidence suggests that they can
increase their productivity with a small amount of effort and assistance.
The assistance to the micro-enterprises component includes three subcompo-
nents aimed at strengthening the capacity of three agencies to provide fo-
cused affordable assistance to micro-entrepreneurs.   The UNO Subcomponent
would extend UNO's existing program of managerial and technical assistance
to micro-enterprises outside the municipality of Recife.  The subcomponent



-19-
would establish regional offices in Jaboatao, Paulista and Sao Lourenco da
Mata. The subcomponent would provide supervised access to credit to 4,440
micro-enterprises, technical and managerial assistance and training to
3,195 enterprises, and management courses to 1,596 owner-managers, in addi-
tion to forming 16 common service associations among enterprises with simi-
lar activities to lower the costs of purchasing raw materials and marketing
final products and improving productivity through equipment sharing and
appropriate technology adjustments.   Since an important part of this and
other income creation components involves assistance in approaching credit
sources, it was agreed at negotiations that the Government of Brazil would
take all necessary steps to ensure the availability of lines of credit to
micro-enterprises assisted under the project (see para. 9.02 (d)). As part
of its community development program, the Municipality of Recife has attem-
pted to provide facilities  for economic activities.   URB believes  that
micro-enterprises can benefit from improved infrastructure and equipment as
well as from managerial and technical assistance. The Municipality of Re-
cife Subcomponent would establish two productivity centers in the munici-
pality of Recife (in Coque and Casa Amarela), serving six neighborhoods
that contain concentrations of micro-enterprises in sewing, shoemaking,
woodworking, and sawmilling operations. The objectives of the subcomponent
are to increase the productivity of 2,400 micro-enterprises and to form six
common service associations. The Municipality of Jaboatao Subcomponent is
similar to the one described immediately above, but it is promoted by the
Jaboatao urban development company, URJ. The subcomponent would establish
a productivity center in the Cavaleiro District of Jaboatao near concentra-
tions of micro-enterprises in sewing, shoemaking, woodworking, and metal
working operations.   The objectives of the subcomponent  to increase the
productivity  of  1,200  micro-enterprises,  to  increase  incomes  of  1,570
self-employed producers, and to form three common service associations.
4.13        Provision of Intermediation Services Component.   According to
census data, 200,000 persons in the RMR are autonomous or self-employed
workers.   Of these, 70,000 are skilled tradesmen; however, their earnings
are less than two minimum salaries.  The unskilled independent workers earn
less than one minimum salary.  A market survey on the demand for a range of
household and office services indicates that most people prefer to use the
informal sector to reduce costs, but are still concerned about quality.
The survey further showed that about 60% of the demand was for skilled ser-
vices and 40% was for unskilled. These data indicate two opportunities for
action:   first, skilled independent tradesmen appear to be underemployed,
probably because communications difficulties limit their access to users
and vice-versa;  second, there seems to be an adequate demand for skilled
labor to justify training some of the pool of unskilled labor.  This pro-
gram includes two attempts to improve the capacity of the autonomous worker
to meet the demand for his services through a process of intermediation.
The SETAS Subcomponent would provide, for skilled tradesmen, a central
clearinghouse with good communications to act as a broker between the con-
sumer and the tradesmen, thus providing the consumer with access to a large
pool of tradesmen and the tradesmen with an expanded market for their ser-
vices.  For unskilled workers, the subcomponent would provide information
on and referrals to training courses run by state and national institu-
tions. In addition, assistance in obtaining proper documents would be pro-
vided for those whose employment seeking is hampered by the lack of docu-
mentation.   This subcomponent would extend SETAS, experience in one such
clearinghouse through the opening of four new intermediation centers in
Mustardinha/Afogados, Boa Viagem, Madalena and Rio Doce/Olinda, plus the



-20-
continued operatifor of the Casa Amarela center and a control unit to be
established in- L    of the centers.   The URB Subcomponent would establish
six intermediation centers in the municipality of Recife, in Brasilia
Teimosa, Coelhos, Favela Esperanca/Conceicao, Pina, Monsenhor Fabricio, and
Torre/Zumbi.    URB's  subcomponent  would  provide similar services  to the
SETAS subcomponent, but would also include infrastructure and equipment for
rental to tradesmen that serve the community from their own fixed loca-
tions.
4.14       Exploitation of Natural Resources Program Component.   The non-
urbanized part of the RMR is rich in natural resources that have not been
exploited to their full potential. This program attempts to stimulate the
better use of these resources through three subcomponents that aim to de-
monstrate the benefits  that can be derived  from  these  resources.   The
Fisheries Subcomponent would provide infrastructure, equipment, and tech-
nical assistance to revitalize COOPESCAPE (a Recife fishing cooperative)
into a viable production and marketing operation to supply the metropolitan
region with much needed low-cost fresh fish. The Shrimp Subcomponent would
demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of shrimp cultivation,
and disseminate this information to small cultivators in the area.   The
subcomponent would establish a breeding station and a demonstration shrimp
farm, organize artisan shrimpers into a cooperative association that would
eventually be capable of operating and maintaining the production facili-
ties, and set up a marketing and technical assistance operation to supply
shrimp larvae and know-how to small private farms existing in the metropol-
itan region.  The Tourism Subcomponent is designed to demonstrate the po-
tential of the RMR's underdeveloped tourist attractions. With its interna-
tional airport, its excellent beaches and its unique historical monuments,
the RMR should be able to develop a viable tourism industry attracting not
only Brazilian but also international tourists, with concommitant increases
in local incomes and foreign exchange earnings.  The proposed component is
a pilot project that would demonstrate the benefits of improving access to
both monuments and beaches through the provision of simple accommodations
and facilities and upgraded transport infrastructure in combination with
measures to prevent the further deterioration of important monuments. The
subcomponent would also include an archeological study and the preparation
of an integrated development plan for the island of Itamaraca.
D. Institutional Development Subproject (US$31.94 million)
4.15      The Institutional Development Subproject is based on the proposi-
tion that development of the RMR depends as much on the management and
planning capacity of its agencies as on physical works. The basic theme of
the subproject is to attempt to improve current systems of management, co-
ordination, and planning while simultaneously investigating more fundamen-
tal changes that may be required in structures, organizations, and sys-
tems.   Thus, the subproject combines action measures designed to produce
short-run improvements and diagnostic measures designed to determine future
improvements.   Specifically, the subproject aims:   (a) to improve the ef-
ficiency of RMR agencies through the demonstration of improved management
techniques, through the provision of improved management and planning in-
formation systems, and through technical assistance and training; (b) to
improve coordination among RMR agencies; and (c) to improve both the level
and the effectiveness  of community participation.   Taking a longer-term
view, the subproject would investigate potential mechanisms and instruments
for future metropolitan management. Finally, a component would be included



-21-
to provide health education in support of upgrading and low-cost sanitation
efforts. The subproject would include five components and would be execut-
ed by FIDEM.
4.16         The Improved Efficiency Component would have three subcompo-
nents.   The Project Management and Monitoring Subcomponent would use the
activities associated with the project to introduce to RMR agencies improv-
ed methods of project management, including programming, quality control
and financial control.   In addition, mechanisms for monitoring the execu-
tion of the project and evaluating the benefits derived therefrom would be
developed and implemented by FIDEM in coordination with the executing
agencies.   The Management  and Planning Information Systems Subcomponent
would comprise measures to improve the basis for both management and plan-
ning of activities in the RMR, including:   (a) an RMR information system
using a common cadastral base to update information on the networks, ser-
vices, and operations of RMR agencies; (b) a system for monitoring the
levels and effectiveness of public service provision in the RMR; (c) a sys-
tem for monitoring the plans and actions of the RMR municipalities; (d) a
system for providing improved information on the availability and use of
health services in the RMR, (e) a detailed diagnosis of the RMR economy,
coupled with the development of:  (i) methods to integrate economic vari-
ables into FIDEM's planning process; and (ii) improved methods for using
economic data as an aid to targeting income and employment creation
efforts; (f) a study of the potential of the small farmer in the RMR; and
(g) a study of methods for improving level of participation in economic
activities of female heads of households. The three latter activities are
aimed at improving FIDEM's work on economic planning and on income and
employment creation. In addition, the subcomponent would include a longer-
range study of the efficiency of agencies that are active in the RMR with a
view  to diagnosing  fundamental  problems  and  proposing  solutions.    The
Technical Assistance and Training Subcomponent would provide technical
assistance to municipalities in the area of cadastral operations (plus in
the case of Recife, financial management), project preparation, modern
administrative techniques, and personnel development.   In the context of
low-cost sanitation, this component would include technical assistance to
the executing agencies of upgrading components in the execution of low-cost
sanitation subcomponents and a pilot program in the state sanitation com-
pany on the operation and maintenance of low-cost sanitation measures.  In
addition, it would promote the development of human resources in the RMR
through the provision of short courses for 1,500 professionals (planners,
economists, engineers, controllers, managers, technicians, construction
foremen and  inspectors,  and  administrators)  involved  in  urban  service
delivery in improved methods in planning, programming, management, informa-
tion systems, project execution and supervision of works, social programs
and institutional development projects, project management, operations and
maintenance of urban services, general administration, assessment of human
resource needs within each municipal administration, and on information
systems on human resources in the RMR.
4.17      The Coordination Component would:  (a) improve coordination among
the 18 agencies presently involved in the provision of urbanization, re-
creation and transport services for the RMR; (b) implement an improved co-
ordination system among the 15 agencies presently involved in environmental
sanitation efforts; and (c) create a structure to formulate policy, estab-
lish norms, and coordinate solid waste management activities. In addition,



-22-
it would include a study of mechanisms and procedures to improve interagen-
cy coordination in the longer term.
4.18        The Community Participation Component would improve community
participation in the delivery of urban services, including: (a) the devel-
opment of a master plan and execution of priority actions related to the
mobilization of community participation on a regional basis; (b) a program
to improve access  by beneficiaries  to public  service  agencies  through
diagnosis of existing channels of communication, development of a central
information center for coordinating and disseminating information and ne-
gotiations with executing agencies; and (c) a program of organizational and
technical support and training for existing community development efforts
of local community action groups.
4.19       The Administration of the RMR Component would establish a group
of high-level specialists in complex organizations and systems to inves-
tigate potential organizational systems for the administration and finan-
cial management of the RMR, including the role of FIDEM, the development of
formal RMR management authority and legislation, the possible development
of metropolitan revenue sources, and mechanisms for ensuring coordinated
planning and execution of metropolitan investments in the context of sound
administrative and financial practices.
4.20        The Institutional Development Subproject has been prepared in
detail by FIDEM. It was agreed at negotiations that acceptance by the Bank
of a final work program, including terms of reference and qualifications
statements, would be a condition of disbursement for any component, except
for project management, of the Institutional Development Subproject (see
para. 9.03 (d)).
4.21        The Health Education Component.   Several studies have revealed
that the provision of water and sanitation facilities and garbage collec-
tion may not by themselves be sufficient to improve health conditions if
the practices governing the use of such facilities are not simultaneously
improved. This component would be coordinated with upgrading activities in
the poor areas and would help to ensure the efficient implementation and
ultimate beneficial impact of improved facilities on the health of the
people of the areas.  Promotion and education activities would be coordi-
nated with the construction, to encourage acceptance of low-cost solutions,
community and household participation in actual implementation, and proper
use, care and payment for facilities provided.  In addition, the component
would provide for training of professionals and documentation of the pro-
gram.
4.22        Specifically, 49 field workers, using a variety of educational
materials, would motivate and educate about 113,000 local people and lead-
ers in the poor communities.   The field workers would be supported by a
small administrative staff in each executing agency and by a coordinating
group in the State Health Secretariat. In addition, there would be a mass
media campaign covering the whole RMR, aimed at underscoring the proper use
of garbage collection facilities and the dangers of blocking drainage
channels with garbage.   Professional training and project  documentation
would comprise four annual seminars for sanitation professionals and the
production of audio-visual materials on low-cost solutions to environmental
sanitation problems.



-23-
V. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      The total estimated cost of the project, including contingencies,
is US$348 million, of which US$83.5 million (24%) would be foreign ex-
change.   The base cost estimates  are in September 1981 prices.  Summary
project cost estimates are presented in Table 5.1; cost estimates by compo-
nent and by cost category are presented in Table 5.2.
TABLE 5.1. Summary Cost Estimates
Foreign                         Foreign
Total  Exch.   Local        Total       Exch.       Local
Subproject                 US$ m                               CR$ m
A.  Upgrading      125.37  30.09   95.28        40,409.71   9,698.33  30,711.38
B. Metropolitan
infrastruct.  169.23  40.61  128.62        56,029.65  13,447.12  42,528.53
C. Income
Creation        21.26   5.10   16.16        6,551.15   1,572.28   4,978.87
D. Institutional
development    31.94   7.67   24.27        12,413.27   2,979.18   9,434.09
PROJECT TOTAL      347.80  83.47  264.33    115,403.78  27,696.91  87,706.87
Detailed cost estimates by subcomponent, by cost category, and by quarter
are presented in the SAR Supplementary Volume.   Cost estimates were based
on final designs for the Jaboatao upgrading component and the first phase
of earthmoving for the CRV Development component, on advanced preliminary
designs for the BR-101, the garbage collection and disposal, and the first
phase of the Recife upgrading component,  and on preliminary designs  for
all other components, with the exception of the later phases of the Recife
Upgrading and CRV Development components, which are based on extrapolations
from the first phases. Final designs are under preparation for all compo-
nents or component phases that are scheduled to be executed at the begin-
ning of project implementation (see also para. 6.20).  Thus, bidding will
begin soon after loan signing. Physical contingencies ranging from 10% to
25% have been allowed, depending on the level of design, the experience of
the agency, and the difficulty of estimating costs for the specific subcom-
ponent. The project would provide about 420 man-months of consulting ser-
vices (mainly local) at an average cost estimated at US$7,250 per man-month
(including travel,  subsistence,  and overhead).   This  is consistent with
current experience in Brazil.
5.02       Price contingency rates are based on best estimates of the rate
of Brazilian inflation as measured by the general price index, plus a 3%
allowance to reflect the fact that construction prices have recently risen
faster than general prices. The estimated basic inflation rates are 90% in
1982, 70% in 1983, 50% in 1984, and 40% in 1985. Cruzeiro project costs
were converted into dollars on the basis of quarterly projected exchange
rates that reflect a stated Brazilian policy of devaluing sufficiently to
reflect the difference in dollar and cruzeiro inflation rates, thus main-
taining the real exchange rate at its December 1980 level. The estimated
dollar inflation rates used were 8% in 1982 and 7% thereafter. Since all



BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 5.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES (USSM)
(A)      (B)      (C)       (D)       (E)          (F)                (I)           (H)           (I)            (J)          (K)
DETAILED ENGINEER.      SUPERVISION             PHYSICAL CONTING.             PRICE CONTING.                                 % OF
TECH.    LAND     CIVIL                     -----------------------------------   BASE   -----------------               -----------------              TOTAL
COMPONENT                    ASSIST.  ACQUIST. WORKS  EVUIPMENT SUBTOTAL  AMOUNT  i OF CID  AMOUNT  X OF CID  COSTS    AMOUNT   2 OF H  SUBTOTAL  AMOUNT   I OF J                                        TOTAL
A. UPGRAIPINC
SLYM IPGRADING (PCR)                 0,OO    18.99    20,25      0.00    39.25      0.68         3     1.36         7    41.29     8.44        20    49.72      7.28       15              57,00              16.39
SLUM UPGRADING (COHAB)               o.oo      7,05    10.75     0.08    17.88      0.34         3     0.94         9    19.16     3.83        20    22.99      4.84       21              27.83               8.00
SLUM UFGRADING (F'MJ)               o0oo      0.21    11.11      0.00    11.33      0.44         4     0.75         7    12.53     1.88        15    14.41      1.60       11              16.01               4.60
cOMPLEMENTARY INFRAS.                o.oo     3.47    12.96      0.00    16.44      0.51         4     0.75         b    17.69     2.65        15    20.35      4.18       21              24.53               7.05
SUBTOTAL A                       0.00    29,73    55.07      0.08    84.09      1.98         4     3.80        7    90.66    16.80         19   107.47    17.90        17             125.37              36.05
E. METROPOLITAN INFRASTRUCTURE
BR-101 RESTRUCTURING                  3.00    5.72    12.31      0.01    18,04      0.62         5     0.86         7    19.52     2.97        15    22.49      4,75       21              27.24               7.83
CURADO URBAN CENTER                  0.o0    0.43       9.60     0.69    10.73      0.51         5     0.51         5    11.75     1.18        1o    12.93      1.94       15              14.87               4.28
CURADO IV                            o.oo     1.61    30.65      0.00    32.26      1.53         5     1.53         5    35.32     3.53        10    38.85      6.66       17              45.51              13.09
CRJ URBANIZATION                     0.00      1.94    19.43     0.18    21.55      0.96         5     1.26         6    23.77     4.59        19    28.36      5.71       20              34.07               9.80
INDUST, PARK (JAB)                   o.oo     0.21      6.30     0.00      6.51     0.32        s      0.32        5      7.14     0.71        10     7.85      1.24       16               9.09,              2.61
GARBAGE COLLECTIONiDISPOSAL          3.28     3.02    10.06    13.25    29.61       0.51         2     0.77         3    30.90     2.76         9    33.66      4.79        14             38.45              11.06
SUBTOTAL B                       3.28    12.93    88.35    14.14   118.69       4.45         4     5.25        4   128.40    15.75         12   144.14    25.09        17             169.23              48.66
C. INCOME CREATION                        5.31      0.56     3.16     3.03    12.06      0.21         3     0.14         2    12.41      1.58       13    13.99      2.11        15             16.10               4.63
TOURISM                                0.55      0.18     2.89     0.00      3.63     0.14         5     0.14         5     3.91     0.48        12     4.39      0.77       17               5.16               1.48
SUBTOTAL C                       5,86     0.73      6.05     3.03    15.68      0.36         4     0.28        3    16.32      2.06        13    18.38      2.88       16              21.26               6.11
D. INSTITUTIONAL fEVELOPMENT             23.99      0.00     o.oo      0.00    23.99     0.00         0     0.00         0    23.99      0.00        0    23.99      5.08       21              29.07               8.36
HEALTH EDUC. U COMM,SUPPORT            2.13      0.00     0.00     0.00      2.13     o.oo         0     0.00         0     2.13     0.21        10     2.34      0.53       23               2.87               0.83
SUBTOTAL D                      26.12     0.00      0.00     0.00    26.12      0.00         0     o.oo        0    26.12      0.21         1    26.33     5.61        21              31.94               9.18
PROJECT TOTAL                            32.26    43.39   149.47    17.26   245.38       6,79         4     9.33         6   261.50    34.82        13   296.32    51.48         17            347.80             100.00
NOTE: BASE COST ESTIMATES ARE IN SEPTEMBER 1981 PRICES



-25-
the foreign exchange is exnected to be indirect, with international infla-
tion rates already reflected in Brazilian prices, inflation factors were
not calculated separately for local and foreign costs.
B. Financing Plan
5.03        A Bank contribution of 35% of project costs is proposed, given
the low foreign exchange component (24%) and the high poverty impact (60%)
of the project (see para. 8.02).   This would imply a loan of US$122 mil-
lion.  Including the front-end fee would bring the loan amount to US$123.9
million.   Counterpart funds would be provided by SDU/MINTER (15%) and by
local agencies (50%).  The local share would be made up of 10% from munici-
palities, 10% from the State of Pernambuco, and 30% from state and munici-
pal borrowings from BNH. The relative contributions for individual compo--
nents would vary while maintaining the overall ratios. The financing plan
is shown in Table 5.3.  It was agreed at negotiations (see para. 9.02 (e))
that, in April of each year of project execution, the Bank, the Ministry of
Interior (through its General Secretariat (SG/MINTER)), SUDENE, the State
of Pernambuco, FIDEM, and the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao would
review progress in the previous twelve months and determine the revisions
that would be necessary in the next year's financing plan. The revised
financing plan would show the allocations that should be included in the
budget proposals of the project agencies.   The appraisal mission verified
that provisions for federal, state, and municipal counterpart funds had
been made in the appropriate 1982 budget proposals.   Formal confirmation
that the approved budgets contain the required funds was provided at
negotiations.
C. Flow of Funds
5.04        Chart 1 shows the flow of funds for a typical project in which
the participation of the funding agencies is equal to the average for the
project. The federal government (in the form of SDU/MINTER), which would
provide 50% of project costs (including 35% of Bank financing) would trans-
fer its funds to the project account in FUNDERM through SUDENE. The latter
would participate for two reasons: experience with the Medium-sized Cities
Program has shown that SUDENE is more flexible and responsive than the
Ministry of Interior in releasing funds; and controlling the resources
strengthens SUDENE's administration and coordination role. The 10% state
contribution would also be deposited in the FUNDERM project account. These
funds would be controlled by FIDEM and released to the executing agencies
as follows:   the first two quarterly disbursements would be made according
to the physical-financial timetable; the third disbursement would be made
only upon proof that the first quarter's works had been executed. Subse-
quent disbursements would follow the same principle.   The executing agen-
cies would provide their own 10% of resources directly. The remaining 30%
from BNH would be made available to the executing agencies through BNH's
financial intermediary (the state development bank, BANDEPE, or COHAB).
FIDEM has in operation a detailed system of financial controls that is
working satisfactorily on other projects and is satisfactory to the Bank.
All releases of funds are conditional upon predetermined evidence of per-
formance and specific authorization. Detailed records are kept of all
transactions and movements in the project bank accounts. The accounts
themselves are restricted to specific components and cannot be used for
other purposes.



BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 5.3 FINANCING PLAN
CRNM
COMPONENT             EST. COST              GOBIBIRD        C     PE-TOTAL        C                                                                                     CITY TOT,       %
AGENCY                CREDIIT                                                                         CREDIT
FUNEIERM      C       BUDGETS        C      OPERATIONS    I                                           BUDGET        C      OPERATIONS      I
A. UPGRAE'ING
IIPSRAI'ING(PCR)     51223.44                480055       9.20   3019.15        57.00      73.13        1,40                  0.00   2946.02        56.40                1666.20      31.90    459.66         0.80   1206.61       2-3.10
UPGRABIING(COH)      2415.04                1933.24      00.05    403.01        20.00       0.00        0.00                  0.00    483.01        20.00                   0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0,00
UPGRADIING(PMJ)      1513.31                 514.53      34.00    430.10        208.95    430.10       20,95                  0.00        0.00       0.00                 564.46      37.30       95.34       6.30    469.13        31.00
COMPL . INFRAS.    21t37.51                  555,75      26.00    171.00         0.00     171,00        0.00                  0.00        0.00       0.00                1410.76      66.00   1410.76        66.00        0.00       0.00
SUBTOTAL A      11209.30                3404,07       30.06   4111.26       36.42    602.23         6.04        0.00       0.00   3429.03        30.37               3641,50       32.26   1965.76        17.41   1675.74        04.04
B. METRO. INFRASTR.
004101               2363.00                1772.25      75.00    590.75        25.00    590.75        2.5.00                  0.00       0.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
CURADO U. .          1350,27                1203.97      94.53       74.30       5.47       0.00        0.00                  0.00       74,30       5.47                   0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
CURADIO IV           4001.34                 163.25       4.00   3917.60        95.99       0.00        0.00                  0.00   3917.60        95.99                   0.00       0.00        0,00       0.00        0.00       0.00
CR0 OIEVELOPMNT      2970,97                 923.70      31.01   1034.90        34.74    439.10        14.74                  0.00    595.00        2.0                  1020.30      34.25      131.07       4.40    089.22        29.85            .
INI', FARK-JAB        025.11                 721.97      07.50        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      103.04      12.50        0.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
GARBAGE COL/DI       3535.67                3000.63      07.13    456.10        12.90    456.10        12.90                  0.00        0.00       0.000.0  0.00                           0,00             0.00olo     0.00       0.00
SUBTOTAL B      15142.36                7945.05       52.47   6073.73       40.11   1405.95         9.01    103.14         0.60   4507.70        30.30               1020.30        6.74    131.07         0.07    089.22         5.87
C. INCOME  CREATION    1469.43                   906.64       61,70    437.09       29,00    437.09        29.00      61.72        4.20       0.00        0.00                 63.19        4.30      63,19        4.30       0.00        0.00
TOURISM                461.30                 461.30     100.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00                   0.00       0.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
SUBTOTAL C        1930.01               0368,02       70,85    437.09       22.68    437,09        212.60      61.72       3.20        0.00       0.00                  63.19       3.27      63.19        3.27       0.00        0.00
B, INSTIT . DEVEL.       2_520.56               2520.56      100.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        0.00                  0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
HEALTH  FOOT.,         245.04                 245.04     100.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00                   0.00       0.00       0.00                   0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0,00       0.00
SUBTOTAL 51       2766.40               2766,40    100.0   000          0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00             0.00       0.00                   0,00 0.00 oo           0.00       0.00        0.00
POROJECT TOTAL          31120,07               15564.34       50.00  10622,00       34.13   2606.00         0.37    164,05         0.53   0016.00        25.75               4724.98       15.10   2160.02         6.94   2564.96         0.24
BASE COST ESTIMATES ARE IN SEPTEMBER 1901 PRICES  BUT THEY DO NOT INCLUDE PRICE CONTINGENCIES.



-27-
D. Procurement and Disbursements
5.05      A total of approximately US$200 million of civil works, and about
US$25 million worth of goods, would be procured under the project.
5.06       Civil works.  Between 500 and 600 contracts for civil works are
expected to be let, ranging in value from about US$2 million (for landfill)
to about US$30,000 (for a community center in a poor area), with the major-
ity of contracts falling in the lower part of the range. The phasing of
implementation, the number of executing agencies, (nine executing agencies
plus support agencies) and the spread of works over different locations
preclude the grouping of contracts into larger packages. Experience with
other Bank-financed projects in Brazil has shown that foreign firms are un-
likely to be interested in bidding for contracts worth less than about US$4
million. Accordingly, all civil works contracts would be procured using
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. These proce-
dures permit the participation of foreign firms. Subject to the Bank's
prior approval, minor works (such as neighborhood improvements and the res-
toration of historic buildings) would be carried out by force account or by
established community groups directly contracted by the executing agen-
cies. This would apply where competitive bidding might entail costs and
delays disproportionate to the value of the works. The total value of such
works is not expected to exceed US$30 million (or 15% of the value of civil
works).
5.07       Goods and Equipment. Contracts for vehicles and biogas produc-
tion, treatment and distribution equipment for the garbage collection and
disposal component (approximately US$17 million) would be procured by ICB
in accordance with Bank guidelines.   Other goods, equipment, and vehicles
contracts, largely small items of machinery, furniture, and office equip-
ment, would be procured under local competitive procedures acceptable to
the Bank.  Foreign firms would be permitted to participate.  Domestic ma-
nufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference of 15% or the import
duty whichever is the lower.
5.08       Bank Review of Procurement. Prior Bank review and approval of
bidding documents and bid evaluations would be required for all contracts
subject to ICB.  The first civil works contract to be let by each executing
agency would be reviewed by FIDEM and SUDENE and subsequently by SDU/
MINTER, which would certify to the Bank that each contract is consistent
with Bank guidelines. SDU/MINTER currently carries out this function under
the Medium-Sized Cities Project (Loan 1720-BR). Bank supervision missions
have checked their performance and judged it to be satisfactory. All other
contracts would be subject to prior review by FIDEM and would be reviewed
by Bank supervision missions ex post on a sample basis.  The sample would
be chosen so as to include approximately 10% of the contracts and no less
than 30% of total contract value.
5.09       Bank Review of Final Designs. Bank review and approval would be
required for the final designs of the following components: (a) Recife Up-
grading Component (Phase 1); (b) Capibaribe River Valley Development (Phase
1); (c) Curado IV Housing Development; (d) the first bio-gas collection and
storage facility; (e) the Curado Urban Center; and (f) the first three em-
ployment subcomponents to be prepared.   Such approval would constitute a
condition of disbursement for each of these components (see para. 9.03
(e)). All other final designs would be reviewed by FIDEM and by SUDENE;
the latter would formally approve all designs. Bank supervision missions
would review final designs on a sample basis.



-28-
5.10       DisbA r' -nients. Bank loan funds would be disbursed to cover 100%
of consultant services (including final designs, supervision, technical
assistance, and suudies) and 27% of all civil works contracts. Disburse-
ments would be made against statements of expenditure submitted by SDU/
MINTER certifying payments by executing agencies for civil works and con-
sulting services and discriminating the component involved, the relevant
contract, the location of the works or services, and the amount disbursed.
The use of statements of expenditure for both civil works and consulting
contracts is justified by the large number of components and contracts in-
volved.   Detailed documentation supporting  the statements  of expediture
(including contracts, supervision reports, certification of work completed,
and disbursements by FIDEM) would be kept by FIDEM, for review by Bank
supervision missions. SDU/MINTER has demonstrated its capacity to operate
such a system.  In previous projects in Brazil, delays have arisen in the
production of final designs and the start-up of civil works due to the gap
between appraisal and the availability of funds.  To avoid this problem in
this project, retroactive financing would be allowed for up to US$3 million
for civil works and US$7 million for final designs and technical assist-
ance.
5.11      In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, a Special
Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up
to US$8 million. The Government may request the Bank to make advance pay-
ments in dollars from the Loan Account into the Special Account.   With-
drawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made on the basis of
the statements of expenditures forwarded to the Central Bank.  Conversion
from dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that pre-
vailed on the date on which expenditures were made. The Central Bank would
send the statements of expenditures to the Bank, which would then replenish
the Special Account.
5.12         The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 2,
Table 1.  In calculating this schedule, the effects of using:  (a) a rela-
tively optimistic disbursement profile, based on what is believed to be a
feasible implementation schedule (see para. 6.20) and reasonable disburse-
ment lags; and (b) a pessimistic profile based on the Bank-wide historical
sector performance were investigated.   The results are shown in Annex 2,
Tables 2 and 3.  Experience with this project should be better than the
historical averages:   considerable  care has been devoted  to the early
preparation stages, designs are more advanced, and the management agency is
experienced. Nonetheless, history has shown that unforeseen and unforesee-
able problems do arise.   Thus, the estimate of the disbursement schedule
(Annex 2, Table 1) has been calculated as an average of the optimistic and
pessimistic schedules.   Specific evidence from Brazil indicates that this
is in accordance with Brazilian experience.  Loan 1563 has approached this
schedule, disbursing 55% compared with 62% after 3 1/2 years. This project
is now disbursing very rapidly.   Loan 1654 is on the proposed schedule,
having disbursed 25% after two years.  It is also now disbursing rapidly.
Only Loan 1720 is behind the schedule due to a slow startup.  Recent per-
formance (US$3 million and US$5.2 million disbursed in the third and fourth
quarters of 1981) indicates that it may well catch up with the average by
the end of 1982.   Thus,  it is believed that the proposed disbursement
schedule is realistic and consistent with the relevant experience.   The
proposed closing date would be December 31, 1988.



-29-
E. Accounts and Audits
5.13        It was agreed at negotiations:   (a) that each executing agency
would maintain a project account, separate from its usual accounts, and
would make them available on request to the General Secretariat of the
Ministry of Interior (SG/MINTER); (b) that FIDEM would maintain a consol-
idated project account (see para. 9.02 (f)); (c) that SG/MINTER would
arrange for annual audits of the separate project accounts and the
consolidated project account by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (d) that SG/MINTER would submit such audits to the Bank not more
than six months after the close of each fiscal year (see para. 9.02 (g)).
In addition, the auditors would examine the statements of expenditure
submitted with disbursement applications and would verify and certify that
they are supported by adequate documentation and reflect properly incurred
expenditure for legitimate project purposes.  Not later than four months
after the end of their fiscal year, the Central Bank would provide to the
Bank the results of an audit of the Special Account carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
5.14        In respect of the Medium-sized Cities Project, SDU/MINTER has
submitted to the Bank audits for 1981 and 1980 carried out by the Ministry
of Interior's Financial Control Department under the supervision of the
Ministry of Finance.   The audits were thorough, carried out in accordance
with accepted practices, and accepted by the Bank. They demonstrated that
SDU/MINTER and the executing agencies acting under its control had managed
its financial affairs satisfactorily, using adequate financial control
procedures and maintaining accurate records. The opinions submitted applied
to the subproject accounts maintained by executing agencies and to the con-
solidated project account maintained by SDU/MINTER.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
Overview
6.01       Previous Experience and Lessons Learned.  The institutional and
implementation arrangements for this project have benefitted from experi-
ence acquired under the three first urban projects in Brazil.   All three
started up slowly, but are now being executed at a reasonable pace.   A
major problem arose from the strategy of using federal intermediaries that
were relatively inexperienced:   this  lead to delays  in the review and
approval of final designs and in the appraisals of unidentified projects.
A second problem concerned the loss of momentum between appraisal and loan
signing. Since most designs were very preliminary (a third problem), addi-
tional delays were incurred, delays that were exacerbated by difficulties
in land acquisition. In this situation, problems were made worse by inade-
quate supervision and coordination mechanisms. These difficulties resulted
in adjustments to the First Urban Transport Project and the Sites and Ser-
vices and Low-Cost Housing Projects. Nevertheless, the original objectives
of the projects have been maintained and all three projects are now showing
good progress.  In spite of the difficulties (that are perhaps intrinsic to
the first projects in new sectors), delays have been minimized.  The First
Urban Transport Project is expected to be completed in four and a half
years--more than the three years predicted at appraisal but well within the



-30-
eight year Bank-wide average for the sector.  The Sites and Services Proj-
ect is expected to be completed on schedule. The Medium-Sized Cities Proj-
ect is expected to be completed with only minor delays.   In the proposed
project, specific measures have been taken that should reduce the incidence
of problems:   the whole project has been appraised by Bank staff and the
involvement of federal agencies is more limited; final designs are much
more advanced than in previous cases; attention has been paid to the
current and future availability of counterpart funds;   retroactive finan-
cing will help to maintain momentum after appraisal; land acquisition was
well advanced before negotiations; and project management and coordination
systems have been more carefully planned. Overall, a major effort has been
made to incorporate the lessons of previous projects into this project.
6.02      Responsibilities and Management Structure.  The management system
for this project has four levels of agent, corresponding to the different
levels of responsibility for project execution.  The first level comprises
the responsibility for overall project execution and quality control vis-a-
vis the Bank.   This is a federal government responsibility and will be
exercised by SUDENE acting as the agent of MINTER (by whom this responsi-
bility has been formally delegated by ministerial declaration (portaria))
in close collaboration with MINTER's General Secretariat (SG/MINTER) and
Under-Secretariat of Urban Development (SDU/MINTER). The second level com-
prises the actual management responsibility for the project, including en-
suring that timetables and budgets are adhered to, that designs and con-
tracts are produced, and that works and programs are executed satisfactori-
ly.   This is essentially a management  role and will be carried out by
FIDEM.  The third level comprises the agencies that will actually be res-
ponsible for organizing the execution of works and programs --the executing
agencies. There are nine executing agencies for this project. The fourth
level comprises specialized private or public companies or agencies that
perform specific execution tasks without having overall responsibility for
a component.   These could be consulting firms, contractors, public utili-
ties, or even municipalities. These agencies may be thought of as subcon-
tractors to the executing agencies.   Apart from private contractors and
consulting firms, there are 16 support agencies in this project. Four are
municipal, state, or federal agencies that will be involved in civil works;
three are state or federal agencies providing technical assistance;   and
nine are municipalities or private organizations that will be involved in
program operation. Most will be involved in only a small part of the proj-
ect.
Details of the Management System
6.03      The following example of the operation of the system will clarify
the responsibilities of the agencies with the three highest levels of re-
sponsibility (the fourth level only has the responsibility to fulfil its
contract with the executing agency) starting at the point of approval of
preliminary designs.
Step 1.   Production of Final Designs.   The executing agency is responsi-
ble.  If the designs are to be contracted out, the  elaboration
of terms of reference and bidding documents, the  evaluation of
bids,  and the contracting would be the   responsibility of the
executing agency.   FIDEM would review and   approve all stages.
For the first contract by each executing   agency, SUDENE would



-31-
participate with FIDEM in the review and approval process.   For
subsequent contracts, SUDENE would carry out an ex post review on
a sample basis.
Step 2.   Review of Final Designs.  FIDEM would analyze all final designs,
certify that they are technically sound and in accordance with
the approved preliminary designs.   SUDENE would review and ap-
prove the final designs. (Certain specific designs would also be
reviewed by the Bank--see para. 5.09).
Step 3.   Procurement.    SUDENE  would  establish  procurement  guidelines
acceptable to the Bank.   FIDEM would review all procurement to
ensure: (a) consistency of the bidding documents with the guide-
lines; (b) adequacy of the technical specifications; (c) correct-
ness of the bid evaluation; and (d) adequacy of the contract.
For the first procurement by each agency, SUDENE would partici-
pate in the review and approval process.   For subsequent con-
tracts, SUDENE would carry out an ex post review on a sample
basis.   (Certain specific procurement  decisions would also be
reviewed by the Bank and by SDU/MINTER (see para. 5.08).
Step 4.   Supervision:   the executing agencies would be responsible for
ensuring that the works are on schedule and within budget and for
supervision works, including measurements, tests, and analyses to
ensure adequate control of quantities and quality.   FIDEM would
be responsible for: (a) verifying adequate supervision of works;
(b) verifying adherence to timetables and budgets; (c) verifying
compliance with the approved design; (d) checking bills; (e) re-
leasing funds; (f) verifying performance on complementary mea-
sures; (g) approving project revisions and contract adjustments
proposed  by  the  executing  agency;  (h)  liaison  with  other
agencies;  and  (i) preparation of monthly progress reports and
quarterly reports.  SUDENE would be responsible for: (a) a quar-
terly review of progress;  (b) periodic performance and quality
control audits; and (c) reviewing FIDEM's quarterly report before
sending it to the Bank with its own comments.
Step 5.   Monitoring and Evaluation:   FIDEM would finalize the monitoring
and evaluation proposal and have it approved by SUDENE and the
Bank.   FIDEM would be responsible for all monitoring and evalua-
tion activities. SUDENE would review the results from a program-
matic point of view.   It was agreed at negotiations that FIDEM
would present to the SUDENE for its approval by September 30,
1982, a monitoring and evaluation program.  The approved program
would be submitted to the Bank by SUDENE by October 31, 1982
(see para. 9.02 (h)).
In the case of components for which FIDEM is the executing agency, FIDEM's
responsibilities for review and approval would be assumed by SUDENE.
Assessment of the Agencies
6.04        SUDENE.   SUDENE is a large organization that operates programs
and projects in all sectors.  SUDENE's responsibilities under this project
would be carried out by the Coordenacao de Desenvolvimento Urbano (CDU).



-32-
CDU has a team of 13 professionals that has worked on this project since
the early stages of preparation.   The CDU general project coordinator is
the head of CDU;  his deputy is the project chief.  Coordinators have been
designated for the areas of infrastructure, income creation, and institu-
tional development.   The sectoral coordinators are supported by technical
staff. This team has followed the development of the project and is fully
acquainted with the components, the executing agencies, and the views of
Bank staff.   It is, therefore, in an excellent position to carry out its
general coordination and administration roles. In terms of its responsibi-
lity for the review of final designs and procurement, the CDU team can
count on the support of SUDENE's engineering group that was appraised and
found to be competent.  The first designs of the important components will
also be reviewed by the Bank (see paras. 5.09 and 9.03 (e)). SUDENE's in-
come creation group is less strong.   The CDU team will, therefore, obtain
specific professional advice from the federal sectoral agencies, CEBRAE and
SUDEPE  (Superintendencia  para  o Desenvolvimento  da Pesca).    Convenios
(contracts) assuring the availability of these services were signed prior
to negotiations.   The role of SUDENE in this project is most important:
not only will it provide an independent overview within the management
structure, it will also have an important institution-building impact on
the CDU team.  This impact will be translated into practical applications
through CDU's work in the metropolitan regions of Salvador and Fortaleza
and the medium-sized cities of the northeast.
6.05       FIDEM.  As noted above, FIDEM has devoted considerable attention
to developing the structure and organization necessary to manage this proj-
ect.   The result is a management system that would use FIDEM's existing
capacity in combination with special arrangements for the project.   The
management of the project will be carried out through FIDEM's Departamento
de Gerencia do FUNDERM (DGF). There will be a general project coordinator,
who will report directly to the superintendent, and an assistant project
coordinator.   They will obtain support on physical programming and execu-
tion from DGF, on financial programming and budgeting from DGF's Divisao de
Gerencia Financeira do FUNDERM (DFF), on legal matters from the legal group
attached to the Superintendent's cabinet, and on administrative matters
from FIDEM's Unidade de Apoio Administrativo (UAA). These two coordinators
will be responsible for overall management and coordination.   The person
designated general coordinator is highly competent, and worked for a while
as coordinator of the First Urban Transport Project.  He is thus familiar
with the relevant rules and procedures.
6.06      Under the general coordinator, there will be three sectoral coor-
dinators, dealing with infrastructure, income creation, and institutional
development.  Each sectoral coordinator will be supported, for each compo-
nent, by a team drawn from FIDEM's technical units.  Thus, the technical
staff will continue to do their normal jobs, the only difference being that
they will be pulled together into matrix teams for this project. This sys-
tem has the great advantage that it does not create a new project manage-
ment unit in FIDEM. Rather it creates a small management and coordination
overlay on the existing managerial and operational structure of FIDEM.
This is expected to result in fewer problems and disruptions in the project
start-up phase and to provide more permanent improvements in FIDEM's opera-
tions as a result of the project.



-33-
6.07      To ensure adequate coordi'nation among different groups working on
similar or related projects, FIDEM intends to create sectoral coordinating
committees for infrastructure, income creation, and institutional develop-
ment, made up of the sectoral coordinator, the relevant FIDEM technical
staff, and the component managers from the executing agencies.  These comr-
mittees will review progress on a regular basis, detect problems, ensure
feedback from monitoring to execution, and report to the general coordina-
tor. They will provide a useful mechanism for identifying problems, a rec-
ognized forum for their discussion and a source of peer pressure to perform
among executing agencies.
6.08      FIDEM has adequate experience of managing the execution of proj-
ects, both those funded by FUNDERM and those financed by the Bank. During
the execution of the Recife Subproject of the First Urban Transport Proj-
ect, FIDEM has developed from a very passive coordinator to an active and
effective project manager.   It has made some mistakes--e.g.  in ensuring
the provision of funds and adequate quality control--but has responded to
Bank and EBTU criticisms by introducing systems to correct the deficien-
cies. Thus, in terms of its capacity to manage individual projects, FIDEM
is competent.   FIDEM has not,  however,  managed a project  of this size
before.    Therefore,  the  coordination  system  has  been  developed  in  a
detailed and formal way to provide a clear structure within which FIDEM can
work. It should also be noted that most of the components are not inter-
dependent in the sense that a problem in one would necessarily lead to
problems in others.  This will facilitate FIDEM's task.  Overall, FIDEM is
judged to be competent to carry out tasks assigned to it.
6.09       Executing Entities.  These are seven executing agencies for the
ten components in the Upgrading and Metropolitan Infrastructure Subproj-
ects:   the Municipality of Recife's urbanization company, URB, would exe-
cute upgrading in Recife, complementary infrastructure, and the Capibaribe
River Valley Development; COHAB would execute upgrading in Recife and the
Curado IV housing development; the Municipality of Jaboatao's urbanization
company, URJ, would execute upgrading in Jaboatao; the state highway de-
partment, DER, would execute the BR-101 component; the state civil works
company, EMOPER, would execute the Curado Urban Center under the supervi-
sion of FIDEM; the state industrial park company, DIPER, would execute the
Jaboatao industrial park, and FIDEM would execute the garbage collection
and disposal  component.   The following  chart  shows  that,  although  the
number of components and agencies appears to be very complex, most agencies
are involved in only one component and no component involves more than one
agency:
Jab.
Upgrading      Compl. BR-         Curado       Ind.   Garb-
PCR  PMJ  COHAB  Infra.101  CUC    IV    CRV  Park   age
Mun.Rec./URB       X                   X                       X
Mun.Jab./JURJ           X
COHAB                          X                       X
DER                                         X
EMOPER                                           X
DIPER                                                                X
FIDEM                                                                       X



-34-
During project preparation, the SUDENE institutional analysis team prepared
background reports on the executing agencies, including legal structure,
goals, staff, past performance, and evident problems. On the basis of this
extensive documentation, the appraisal mission evaluated the capacity of
the agencies  to execute their components.   In all cases,  the legal and
organizational structure of the agencies was judged to be adequate to per-
mit them to carry out their tasks.   All have adequate experience in the
type of operation that they would have to carry out and all have adequate
upper-level management to control execution of their components. To ensure
the necessary degree of coordination, each executing agency would formally
nominate a component manager who would be responsible for executing the
component and who would represent the agency on the sectoral coordinating
committee.  The manager would be the principal point of contact between the
agency and FIDEM.   He would be supported by a team of technicians  (not
necessarily full-time) covering the areas of monitoring and evaluation,
financial control and preparation of accounts, legal matters, and adminis-
trative matters. The real job of the manager is to ensure that the various
departments of the executing agencies perform their tasks efficiently and
on schedule.  As in the case of FIDEM, the basic work would be done by the
normal operating units of the executing agency, with coordination at the
managerial level.   It is believed that this is the best way to integrate
the component completely into the executing agency, and to ensure the
support and cooperation of middle- and lower-level staff.
6.10        Key elements of the appraisal were the agencies' capacities to
manage, to coordinate, to produce final designs, and to supervise works.
(Since most agencies carry out works through contractors, the issue of
capacity to construct is rarely important.)   Experience in urban projects
in Brazil has tended to show weaknesses in final design and supervision
usually due to large projects that overburden agencies' internal technical
and/or financial capacity.  To avoid any such problems, funds for the pro-
duction of final designs and for the supervision of works have been includ-
ed for all components.   Contracting out these tasks will impose a reduced
burden on the agencies' staffs and will ensure the availability of re-
sources.  It is believed that, with the additional support provided by the
measures described above, all the executing agencies will be capable of
executing their components.   It was  confirmed at negotiations  that the
State and the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao will, in cooperation
with FIDEM, establish and/or maintain management and coordination systems
adequate to ensure effective performance (see para. 9.02 (i)).
6.11       URB.  In the last three years, URB has undertaken the construc-
tion of Recife's Second Perimetral Road, and paving in poor areas (both
under the Bank-financed First Urban Transport Project), a program of urban
rehabilitation (under BNH's CURA program), and a program of slum upgrad-
ing.   Delays were initially encountered in the land acquisition for the
second perimetral; the mayor assigned additional staff to URB and the
problem was reduced.   Civil works have been executed  competently.   The
paving program had initial problems with quality control that URB resolved
through the contracting of consultants to carry out supervision tasks. The
CURA program components were executed more or less on schedule (10-11
months actual vs. 8-9 months) and the upgrading program was executed on
schedule in spite of the use of unskilled community labor. URB has adopted
systems and procedures that reflect learning from previous experience.  In
addition, implementation schedules for the proposed project have been
adjusted to reflect past experience.



-35-
6.12       Since the current administration took office in 1979, URB's per-
formance has steadily improved and earlier difficulties with land acquisi-
tion, design and quality control have been overcome.   The project compo-
nents to be executed by URB represent an expansion of its previous program
of approximately 100%.  However, the components have been phased to build
up gradually and URB will contract out most of the civil works as well as
design and supervision.   This means  that URB's  role is largely one of
management and coordination.   URB's management capacity is judged to be
adequate to carry out its role.   Since execution of the project would re-
quire a higher than usual amount of internal and external coordination, URB
has agreed to establish a coordination unit, reporting directly to the
President of URB, with infrastructure and income creation branches, ade-
quate to provide additional linkages and information flow both between
URB's operating units and between URB and its support agencies.  Overall,
URB is competent to execute its project components.
6.13         COHAB's experience in housing construction is extensive:   in
September 1981, it had completed (since 1966) 58,000 units and it had
40,000 units under construction.   The Bank has been working with COHAB
since 1978 under the low-cost housing and sites and services loan and has
demonstrated design and supervision capacity, together with contract
management and quality control.   COHAB is judged to be very competent in
all areas.  Moreover, COHAB is a Brazilian leader in housing construction
techiques for steep sites. Thus, there is no doubt that COHAB will be able
to execute the Curado IV housing development in an efficient manner.
6.14       COHAB has less experience in slum upgrading, but is nonetheless
one of the foremost housing companies in this area.   In late 1981, COHAB
was involved in upgrading projects that would benefit 35,000 families:
3,600 in execution, 2,200 approved but not started, 10,100 being reviewd,
and 19,100 in design.  COHAB has a special directorate that is responsible
for these projects and has made considerable efforts in the area of appro-
priate design standards and community participation.   Examination of the
projects under construction indicates that, after taking account of ad-
vances and delays in individual sub-items, project execution is being
carried out essentially on schedule.
6.15      URJ.  The Jaboatao urbanization company has executed several si-
milar projects in the last three years under the BNH's upgrading, sites and
services, and urban renewal programs.  In over 80% of cases, URJ has com-
pleted the works ahead of schedule and has in many cases exceeded the
targets. Thus, URJ has adequate experience to execute the project.
6.16      In the cases of both URJ and COHAB, shortcomings were detected in
middle-level,  technical management.   This is because these agencies main-
tain small staffs and contract out most of their work and would, therefore,
be stretched by program expansions. To resolve these problems, these agen-
cies would be required to make commitments (in the FIDEM/Executing Agency
Convenio) to hire the necessary staff to carry out these functions.
6.17      The small Jaboatao industrial park would be executed by the state
industrial park company, DIPER, which has adequate experience and capacity
to execute this component.   The BR-101 and Curado Urban Center components
were prepared by FIDEM and would be executed by the state highway depart-
ment and the state civil works company, under the supervision of FIDEM.



-36-
Both companies have considerable experience and are quite competent to
execute these components.
6.18      It was noted above that one of the objectives of the garbage col-
lection and disposal component is to eliminate a gap in the region's insti-
tutional structure through the creation of an agency to be responsible for
garbage disposal in the metropolitan region. The feasibility study for the
component showed that the best solution would be an autonomous company, of
which the state would hold 51% of the shares with the municipalities of the
RMR holding the balance.   It is, however, considered risky to hand over
this new and important service to a completely new company.   Therefore,
FIDEM (which prepared the project through its Divisao de Limpeza Urbana)
would operate the system in its initial two-year phase.  This would ensure
adherence to the regional and technical objectives of the component and
would enable operating procedures to be developed and staff trained under
the close supervision of the promoter of the component.   In addition,
giving FIDEM the responsibility for operating the system that it developed,
has the advantages  of:   (a)  placing  the burden  of performance  on the
creator of the system (who has the greatest incentive to make it work); (b)
eliminating the troublesome gap between planner and executor; and (c)
avoiding the possibility of mutual recriminations between the company and
FIDEM over differences between expected and actual levels of preparation
and performance.  It was agreed at negotiations that, to assist it in this
operation, FIDEM would, by October 31, 1982, hire on a management contract
consultants with adequate experience in the management of biogas-producing
landfill sites (see para. 9.02 (j)).  It was agreed at negotiations that,
within one year from Loan Signing, FIDEM would obtain the Bank's approval
of the detailed structure of the new company and that, within two years of
Loan Signing, the State would establish the company and hand over opera-
tions to it (see para. 9.02 (k)). In addition, to ensure adequate working
arrangements in the initial phase, FIDEM would enter into a contract (con-
venio) with the municipalities that would establish the basic operational
and financial procedures, and would record the municipalities' intention to
participate in the company that would be set up.  An acceptable draft of
this contract has been presented to the Bank;   its signature would be a
condition of disbursement for the garbage component (see para. 9.03 (c)).
- B. Legal Arrangements
6.19       The legal structure of the project would comprise:   (a) a Loan
Agreement between the Bank and the Federative Republic of Brazil; (b) a
Project Agreement between the Bank, SUDENE, the State of Pernambuco, FIDEM,
and the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao; (c) a convenio (contract)
between SUDENE and the State of Pernambuco, with the intervention of FIDEM,
to transfer the federal counterpart funds to FUNDERM; and (d) convenios
(contracts) between FIDEM and each of the exexcuting agencies, establishing
responsibilities  for  project  execution  and  financing.    Drafts  of  the
SUDENE/FIDEM convenio and one FIDEM/Executing Agency convenio have been
submitted to the Bank for review.   The signing of a SUDENE/FIDEM convenio
acceptable to the Bank would constitute a condition of effectiveness (see
para. 9.01).   The signing of a FIDEM/Executing Agency convenio acceptable
to the Bank would constitute a condition of disbursement for each component
(see para. 9.03 (a)).



-37-
C. Implementation Schedule
6.20       Project execution is expected to take 48 months.  Detailed sche-
dules of expenditure by component, by category of work, and by quarter are
shown in the SAR Supplementary Volume.  These schedules are based on a de-
tailed analysis of the proposed implementation schedules, including estima-
tion of quarterly expenditures for individual subcomponents (i.e., water,
roads,  sewers,  etc.).   Where appropriate,  implementation  schedules were
adjusted to reflect the realities of final design production, bidding, in-
teractions between subcomponents and the capacity of the executing agen-
cies.   Key indicators for project execution are provided in Annex 1 for
each component. Although the project as a whole is estimated to take four
years to execute, it should be noted that several components are scheduled
to be completed in two or three years.   This reduces the risk that the
project might overrun. This risk is also reduced by the phasing of several
components:   should unforeseen problems arise in the early stages,  time
would exist to reprogram the later phases, thus avoiding delaying the pro-
gram as a whole. The mission also reviewed the status of final engineering
designs.   Given the capacity of the agencies involved, a programmatic ap-
proach has been taken to ensure that the timetable for production of final
designs is consistent with the timetable for civil works.  In terms of the
completion of final designs for the first year's civil works, the program
is on schedule: at appraisal, approximately 8% of final designs were com-
plete; by the end of March, 31% were complete, by loan signing 64% should
be complete and the remainder would be 42% complete, giving a total of
79%. Given the Bank's experience with these executing agencies and their
performance to date (including the on-time production of preliminary de-
signs on a very tight schedule), the status of final design preparation is
satisfactory. To avoid start-up problems due to non-availability of land,
the land for CRV Development (Phase 1), Recife Upgrading (Phase 1), CUC,
Curado IV, and the Timbo II landfill site is already available for the
start of civil works. There is, therefore, little risk that works will not
be able to start on schedule.  Overall, the implementation schedule repre-
sents a reasonably conservative target, that is realistic in the light of
the type project involved and the capacity of the executing agencies. The
implementation schedule was discussed with and accepted by the Ministry of
Interior and the Ministry of Planning.   Together with the key indicators,
it was confirmed during negotiations by means of an Aide Memoire.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, COST RECOVERY, AND AFFORDABILITY
A. Financial Analysis of Project Agencies
7.01       As opposed to projects in which the project comprises the major
part of the operation of a single agency, it is in the nature of this proj-
ect that many components and many agencies are involved.   This means that
most components comprise only a small part of the project.  The components
to be executed by URB on behalf of the Municipality of Recife comprise 37%
of total project costs;   the two components to be executed by COHAB comr
prise 22%. No other component or executing agency represents more than 10%
of total project costs; only two others represent more than 5%.  No finan-
cial analysis was carried out for agencies executing components represent-
ing less than 10% of total project costs, attention is, therefore concen-
trated on the most important institutions:   COHAB and the Municipality of
Recife.



-38-
COHAB
7.02       COHAB is a state-owned company established to produce housing for
lower-income groups.  It operates virtually exclusively under BNH programs
and lines of credit for low-income housing, sites and services, and, more
recently, upgrading of poor areas.   Although it is an independent state
company, COHAB is obliged to operate under BNH's rules and procedures and
the prime determinants of its financial situation are the terms and condi-
tions of the BNH lines of credit.
7.03      BNH rules allow a nominal 2% of estimated costs for housing proj-
ect design and 4% for supervision, and a flat 10 UPC (about US$100) per
unit for poor area upgrading (PROMORAR) projects. These fees apply only to
those costs to be recovered from beneficiaries.   Off-site infrastructure,
community facilities, land and infrastructure executed by other agencies
are excluded from COHAB's earning base.   These fees,  which are COHAB's
principal source of revenue, are considered low by professionals in the
field.  The second source of revenue,  in order of importance,  is interest
on mortgages. The average spread of 1.5% on COHAB's portfolio is low, and,
in common with other Brazilian low-income housing companies, COHAB will
face increasing problems as the portfolio grows unless BNH modifies the
structure of interest rate spreads.
7.04       Although COHAB's performance in building low-cost housing units
(see para. 6.13) has been impressive, the spreads and fees allowed by BNH
have been insufficient  to cover COHAB's  expenses.   COHAB's  general and
administration expenses--3.5% of total assets--are high compared with other
COHABs. COHAB-Sao Paulo is under 2% and does a similar volume of business
Tl-h less than half the staff (460 vs. 960 employees).   After showing a
,. ginal profit in 1978, COHAB incurred heavy losses in 1979-80.  The loss
for 1981, based on preliminary results, iL' expected to be equivalent to 27%
of COHAB's net worth.
7.05      At the end of 1980, 66% of COHAB's assets consisted of land held
for development, work in progress and infrastructure built on behalf of
sector agencies and municipalities.   The latter are being turned over to
the responsible entities (which reimburse COHAB).  Coordinating infrastruc-
ture is a serious problem for COHAB, since it has to repay BNH financing,
even if it is unable to sell completed units due to delays in provision of
essential services.  Mortgage loans accounted for 23% of assets; they are
expected to grow rapidly as COHAB sells the units currently under construc-
tion.  Current assets (3.4% of assets) included Cr$177 million in overdue
mortgage payments.   Although COHAB has  the benefit of the state bank's
state-wide branch network and adequate computer controls at its head
office, much of the collection process is still manual.   Delays of up to
one month are experienced in processing payments and crediting COHAB with
the proceeds. About 20% of COHAB's beneficiaries do not pay within 90 days
of the due date.   This is in line with national averages.   However,  the
volume of overdue accounts that COHAB is carrying will increase as large
numbers of new beneficiaries assume mortgage loans.   As a state company,
COHAB suffers pressure not to evict delinquent beneficiaries, especially at
critical points on the election calendar.
7.06      The principal source of financing for COHAB's activities is long-
term borrowing from BNH, which accounted for 90% of total liabilities and



-39-
equity at the end of 1980.  Excessive reliance on debt (equity contributed
only 2% of total capitalization in 1980) has componded the problems arising
from COHAB's poor operating performance.   Losses have offset 50% of the
equity contributed  by  the state  government  in 1978-80.   Current  asset
growth has been financed by debt and stretching out payments to suppliers.
Financing Plan
7.07      During the project implementation period (1982-85), COHAB expects
to invest US$201.9 million equivalent.   The bulk of this investment would
continue to be financed by BNH, with the exception of the IBRD, federal,
and state funds associated with the proposed project, as shown in Table
7.01.
Future Finances
7.08      The financing plan assumes that measures will be taken to improve
COHAB's financial performance over the next three years.   These include
equity contributions by the State of US$2.0 million equivalent in 1982 and
US$1.0 million equivalent in 1983 and in 1984, together with reducing gen-
eral and administrative expenses to no more than 2% of total assets. These
measures should be supplemented by a program satisfactory to the Bank to
improve collections and the implementation of a system to provide better
coordination on infrastructure provision. In addition, the State would en-
sure that COHAB maintains a current ratio of no less than 1.5:1.0 and would
take all measures necessary to enable COHAB to do so.   It was agreed at
negotiations that the State would adopt these measures (see para. 9.02
(1)). It should also be noted that a subcomponent has been included in the
Institutional Development Subproject to enable COHAB to develop (a) a pro-
gram to improve collections, (b) modernized systems of accounting, cost
accounting and financial reporting, and (c) a system of short- and medium-
term financial planning.  These measures were identified on the basis of a
computerized model of a simplified version of COHAB's accounts which was
used to simulate alternative strategies to improve COHAB's financial condi-
tion. Although the model used is not highly sophisticated, it allowed pro-
jections to be made that are indicative of the probable reactions to alter-
native financial scenarios for COHAB.
7.09       COHAB is expected to be profitable in the period 1982-88.  How-
ever, even after the measures noted above, its return on equity would de-
cline steadily.   This confirms the need for a revision in the revenue
structure of COHAB.   As part of supervision activities for the Low-cost
Housing and Sites and Services Project (Loan 1654-BR), Bank staff are ana-
lyzing (a) the extent to which this problem applies to other COHABs and (b)
systemic changes that would be necessary to put the low-cost housing pro-
gram on a sounder financial footing. Resolutions of the financial problems
of COHAB and the other state low-income housing companies will require a
concerted effort by BNH,  the state governments and the companies.   The
availability of reliable financial projections as a result of the proposed
project's institutional development subproject would be an essential pre-
condition for such an effort in the case of COHAB.



-40-
TAB1E 7.01. CCEAB Financing Plan (1982-5)
(US$ millions; Septenmer 1981 Prices)
Investments: Proposed project                    61.7               30.5%
Other housing projects            132.7              65.8%
Additions to fixed assets           1.8               0.87%
Additions to working capital        5.1               2.6%
Land for development                0.6               0.27
Total                   201.9             100.0%
Financing:   Net incone                          4.0                2.0%
Federal Project Funds              21.7              10.8%
State Project Funds                 9.8               4.9%
ENH loans for project              30.2              15.0%
Capital increase                    4.0               2.0%
Other borrowings (mnstly E        132.2              65.3%
Total                   201.9             100.07
TABIE 7.02. 1iicipality of Recife-Receipts and Expenditure 1981-1982
Current Cr$ m           Current Cr$ m
Receipts               Expenses
1981       1982        1981        198-2
Current Receipts                                                               Current Expenses
Taxes                      1,359      4,408       1,771        3,807        Personnel
Fees                         290        662         386       2,098         Services
1,135       4,600        Intra-government transfers
Transfers - Federal          248        940         346        1,027        Transfers to individuals
- State          2,685      7,328         319         665        Charges on debt
- Convenios        208        926         900       3,157        Direct expenses of
municipal agencies
Revenue from services        777      2,982         277          516        All other services
All other receipts           463      1,212
Subtotal      6,030     17,786       5,134      15,920
Capital Receipts                                                               Capital Expenses
Credit Operations          1,104      2,030         909        1,558        Investnents
Grants                       708      4,659         363          637        Intra-governnent transfers
Other                        415        504         401          608       AMDrtization
Direct expenses of
1,404       6,193          mmicipal agents
44          63        Other
Subtotal.     2,227      7,193       3,121       9,059
TOTAM                      8,255     24,979       8,255      24,979



-41-
Municipality of Recife
7.10       Given the complexity of the budgetary and accounting systems of
Brazilian cities,  the financial analysis of Recife was simplified.   The
sources and uses of funds were examined in a simplified form and the analy-
sis focused on Recife's capacity to service the debt and operate and main-
tain the facilities that would result from the project.
7.11       Sources and Uses.  The Municipality of Recife's receipts and ex-
penditure for 1981 and budget for 1982 are shown in Table 7.02.   Appro-
ximately 40% of current receipts come as transfers from the state, the
majority of them from the State tax on the circulation of merchandise.  In
the municipal tax category, about 60% of receipts come from the municipal
tax on production and circulation and the remainder from property taxes.
In this respect, the municipality is in a relatively good position since
much of its revenue depends on business-related taxes.   The current ex-
penditure of the municipality are 85-90% of current revenues; about 58% of
expenditure is through dependent agencies or companies.
7.12       Debt Service.   The Municipality would borrow Cr$12,940 million
from BNH at 1% interest on indexed capital over 30 years with one year's
grace period.   The time distribution of borrowing,  the resultant repay-
ments, and the repayments as a percentage of 1981 debt service levels (all
in 1981 cruzeiros) are shown in Table 7.03.
TABLE 7.03. Debt Service of the Municipality of Recife
(Cr$ million)
Annual            Cumulative                       Repayment as % of
Year      Borrowing          Borrowing        Repayment       1981 debt service
1982        1,728              1,728
1983        3,751              5,749              67                9
1984        5,033             10,512             212               29
1985        2,428             12,940             407               56
1986 +        -                 -                501               70
The maximum repayment represents 6% of the muncipality's 1981 budget; with-
out reducing other expenditure categories,  this means that a 6% real in-
crease  in  municipal  revenues  would  be  required  by  1986.    Given  the
business-related nature of the municipality's revenue sources, this seems
entirely plausible.   Thus, the municipality should have no difficulty in
servicing the marginal debt that would result from the project.
7.13      Operations and Maintenance.  In this project, the level of opera-
tion and maintenance expenditure required varies from component to compo-
nent.   Subcomponents providing roads, drainage channels, retaining walls,
and stairways will have a positive effect on municipal maintenance expen-
diture.  Investigations made by the Municipal of Recife indicate that such
investments would reduce by 43% the high costs of maintenance of clogged
streams,  unpaved  roads,  and  hillsides  subject  to  erosion.    In  the
Capibaribe River Valley, new annual expenditure of Cr$16 million (less than



-42-
US$200,000 p.a.) would be required by 1985--an 8% increase over 1982 expen-
diture by Recife for these items. This expenditure would be more than off-
set by the new property taxes on 10,000 units that would be collected. Ad-
ditional operation and maintenance demands created by water and sanitation
subcomponents would be balanced by corresponding increases in tariff rev-
enue. The largest element of operation and maintenance costs would be for
schools, creches, health posts, and community facilities--about Cr$156 mil-
lion per annum from 1985 onwards.  This would be equivalent to 7% of 1982
municipal expenditure on these categories.   Given the size of the project
and its importance to the municipality, the required increases in operation
and maintenance expenditure are relatively modest and should be easily ab-
sorbed by the municipality.
7.14       Conclusion.  The overall conclusion is that the Municipality of
Recife is competent to carry out the financial operations associated with
the project and is capable of meeting debt service requirements and provid-
ing adequate levels of operating and maintenance funds for project facili-
ties.
B. Operations and Maintenance
7.15       With respect to the operation and maintenance of components not
discussed  above,  the following  observations  apply.   Maintenance on the
BR-101 is the responsibility of DER, the state highway department.   It is
estimated  that  the  costs  of maintenance  on the new facility would not
exceed the costs of maintaining the current road, with its excess traffic,
deteriorating road bed, and crumbling shoulders.  The Curado Urban Center
and the Curado IV Housing Development would both create additional mainte-
nance requirements for roads, drains, public areas, and community facili-
ties.   These requirements would be more than adequately covered by the
additional property tax revenues that would be generated by these compo-
nents.   The Jaboatao Industrial Park and the CUC industrial area would
create additional operation and maintenance expenditures that would be com-
pletely and directly recovered from charges on the firms locating in these
areas.
7.16        In general, problems of operation and maintenance result less
from a lack of resources than from a failure to channel them to operations
and maintenance. Analysis indicates that adequate revenues will be gener-
ated by the project components to cover operation and maintenance costs.
It was confirmed at negotiations that all project executing agencies would
make adequate provision for operation and maintenance expenses in respect
of project facilities (see para. 9.02 (m) (i)).  Experience suggests that
close attention to this matter will be required during supervision.   To
facilitate this task, it was further agreed at negotiations that FIDEM will
prepare an annual report to the Bank evaluating the adequacy of operation
and maintenance expenditures by project executing agencies (see para. 9.02
(m) (ii)).
C. Cost Recovery
7.17       In this project, a variety of cost-recovery mechanisms will be
used depending on the type of component involved. The level of cost recov-
ery (for components other than institutional development for which cost
recovery is not relevant) will average 78%.



-43-
Upgrading Subproject
7.18      Almost 100% of costs will be recovered from beneficiaries for all
components of this subproject,  directly or indirectly,  depending on the
elements that make up each upgrading package.  For Land Regularization and
Legalization in squatter settlements, all costs will be recovered from the
beneficiary through monthly payments over variable periods of time.   For
Water and Sewerage, connection fees and monthly water and sewerage charges
will cover all direct costs. Alternative technology solutions will be re-
covered directly, in the form of monthly payments that vary with the type
of solution.   Street Lighting costs are completely recovered from benefi-
ciaries by the municipality through a specific charge for the service.
Storm Drainage and Street Improvements are recovered partially and indi-
rectly through property taxes.
Metropolitan Infrastructure Subproject
7.19       Costs are recovered through different mechanisms for four cate-
gories of component. One hundred percent of the costs for the Curado Urban
Center, the Capibaribe River Valley (CRV) Development and the Industrial
Park of Jaboatao will be recovered directly through the sale of developed
land.   In the case of CRV Urbanization,  there is a cross-subsidy  that
allows lower-income groups to have access to housing in the area.  In this
case, and in that of the housing portion of the Curado Urban Center, part
of the developed land will be sold to the housing companies (COHAB and
INOCOOP).   In the case of the CUC commercial and industrial areas and of
the Jaboatao Industrial Park, the urbanized land would be sold directly to
private developers or industrial firms. All Curado IV Housing Development
project costs except roads and drainage would be recovered through monthly
payments according to standard COHAB and BNH procedures;   these include an
interest rate on indexed capital that would vary from 1% to 6% depending on
the price of the unit and a repayment period of 20-25 years.   Roads and
drainage would be recovered indirectly through property taxes.   For the
Garbage Collection and Disposal Component, it is estimated that the produc-
tion of gas would generate revenues adequate to cover 100% of the cost of
sanitary landfill and gas production plants (that is, the metropolitan
elements of the component).   In the case of collection equipment, garbage
collection taxes are currently inadequate to cover the costs of operation,
maintenance, and vehicle replacement.   It was agreed at negotiations that
it would be a condition of disbursement for the supply of collection
equipment to any municipality that the municipality have initiated a pro-
gram, designed to ensure that revenues from solid waste management would
cover all operation, maintenance and vehicle replacement costs (see para.
9.03 (b)).   There is no direct cost recovery for the BR-101 Component.
Costs are recovered indirectly from property taxes in the area of influence
of the road and from federal taxes on vehicle registration, gasoline,
alcohol, and lubricants levied directly on road users.
Employment and Income Creation Subproject
7.20      Cost recovery levels and mechanisms vary from component to compo-
nent.   For the UNO Assistance  to Micro-enterprise  Component  technical
assistance is estimated to cost about 16% of the value of the loans it will
accompany.  Only 3%, however, will be charged to the beneficiaries.  It is



-44-
an objective of the component to work with UNO to demonstrate the feasibi-
lity of higher levels of cost recovery. For the Recife Municipality Assis-
tance to Micro-enterprises Component, 3% will be charged for the technical
assistance;   however,  the total component cost will be recovered through
the profits derived from charges and user fees for infrastructure and com-
mon services. The same applies to the Jaboatao Municipality Assistance to
Micro-enterprises Component.   For the SETAS Intermediation Services Compo-
nent,  operating  costs will be recovered  through  client  fees.   Initial
capital investment for equipment and building renewal would not be recover-
ed directly. For the similar URB Component, all infrastructure, equipment,
and operating costs would be recovered through rental of boxes and user
fees.   In both of the above cases,  the URB operations  are expected  to
demonstrate to UNO and SETAS, respectively, that higher levels of cost
recovery are feasible.   For the Fisheries Component and the Shrimp Compo-
nent, 100% of the costs of infrastructure, equipment, and technical assist-
ance would be recovered through the sales of fish and shrimp.   For the
Tourism Component, full costs would be recovered for the camping facilities
and low-cost accommodations through user charges.
D. Affordability
7.21       Housing Components.   The major components of this project that
involve the eventual construction of new housing are producing serviced
land that will be sold to housing construction intermediaries (e.g. COHAB)
or in some cases directly to households.  Two types of affordability cal-
culations have been carried out.  First, the lot values used to evaluate
these components are the market prices of similar serviced land that is
presently being purchased by poor households in neighborhoods located near
the project components. The fact that low-income households are presently
buying such lots in market transactions demonstrates their affordability.
The second type of affordability calculation involved the estimation of a
monthly rent or payment required to cover the costs of a dwelling unit on a
serviced site.   This monthly housing cost is then compared to data from
sample surveys which show the percent of income spent on housing by low-in-
come households.  These data indicate, for example, that low-income house-
holds spend from 25 to 30 percent of their monthly income on housing in
Recife. Calculations for the components indicate that the housing produced
would be affordable to the average poor household  in Recife.   Similar
calculations have been carried out for upgrading components, and these in-
dicate that the housing expenditures required by households residing in the
target areas will be below the budget shares indicated in survey data.
Using market prices is a valid way of doing project analysis when the proj-
ect is small related to the market because the intervention is unlikely to
change market prices. The number of new sites being offered for housing is
small in relation to the relevant market.   The upgrading components when
aggregated will provide improved infrastructure and services for about
44,000 poor households, which is a non-marginal intervention.   However,
these households are presently living on these sites; their current average
housing payments are well below the average for their income group; and the
project required expenditures will not raise their expenditures over the
average for their income group. Therefore, the upgrading components should
be affordable to these households.
7.22      Commercial/Industrial Site Components.  For these components, the
affordability calculations were based on a market analysis.  In all cases,



-45-
the prices to be charged under the project are below current market prices
for similar serviced sites.
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Summary
8.01        The benefits from this project fall into two types:   specific
benefits to individual beneficiaries and indirect benefits and externali-
ties.   Specific benefits have been quantified and are described  below.
The state of the art of urban and regional economics does not permit quan-
tification of the indirect benefits and externalities that result from
undertaking an integrally coordinated package of projects rather than proj-
ects with a more restricted sectoral orientation.   In a narrow sense, the
direct benefits include (for example, in an upgrading component), the cumu-
lative effects of undertaking water, drainage, paving, and sanitation in-
vestments together.   In a wider sense,  the undertaking of a coordinated
package of investments with common objectives creates additional benefits
that are the specific results of planning and coordination.   Five catego-
ries of indirect benefit or externality have been identified.   First, the
economy of the region would be stimulated by the multiplier effects both of
the increases in the incomes of the 30,000 individuals associated with in-
come creation components and, to a certain extent, of the construction ex-
penditure resulting from the project.   A large proportion of the benefi-
ciaries of the income creation components are poor and much of the upgrad-
ing will be carried out using labor from the upgrading areas. Thus, since
the poor tend to spend a high proportion of their income in their local
neighborhoods, the multiplier effects should be concentrated in poor
areas.   Second, the region as a whole and its economy in particular will
benefit from increased efficiency and reduced transactions costs. Specific
examples include reduced transport costs, improved accessibility, the
bringing together of employment and residential areas, and improved health
conditions, all of which should contribute to increased productivity.
Third, the effective planning of location and density would tend to reduce
the  costs  of providing  future  infrastructure.    The nucleated  regional
structure is expected to induce more local trips and fewer trips to the
center of Recife, thus reducing the need for highly expensive central city
transport investments.   Similarly,  the costs of providing expanded water
and sewer networks would be reduced in planned peripheral developments
where lower-cost technologies can be used and expensive renovations and
expansions of networks  in densely built-up areas avoided.    Fourth, the
coordinated provision of infrastructure would reduce the delays, costs, and
financial burdens that result from a lack of coordination, such as housing
developments that cannot be sold because they lack water or other services
(with increased carrying costs for the agency involved) or road projects
that are held up while public utilities are relocated, with resulting cost
increases in many cases.  Finally, the region would benefit from increased
levels of efficiency and productivity in the RMR agencies themselves
through the Institutional Development Subproject and through the necessity
for the agencies to work together and coordinate activities.    Although
these indirect benefits and externalities do not lend themselves to quanti-
fication, it is believed that they may well be more important than the
direct benefits and, in fact, constitute the primary justification for the
project.



-46-
8.02       The individual components of the project are all well justified
in economic terms.   Economic evaluations were performed on project compo-
nents that constitute 95% of total project costs.   The overall internal
rate of return for the evaluated components is 21%.  The average rates of
return are 18% for the housing and residential infrastructure components,
28% for the employment components, and 23% for the remaining (garbage col-
lection and highway upgrading)  components.   The components of the project
also provide substantial benefits directly to the poor in Recife.  The ur-
ban poverty impact was calculated for components constituting 83% of total
project costs. For these components, 60% of the project benefits (produced
by 44% of the project costs) will accrue to the poor. The neighborhood up-
grading components will be of particular benefit to the poor;   these com-
ponents will provide water and sanitary facilities to about 60% and 70%,
respectively, of the poor households in Recife who currently lack these
services.
B. Economic Analysis
8.03        Approach to Appraisal.   Because many different types of compo-
nents are included in this project, a single uniform evaluation procedure
was not used for all components.  At the same time, an attempt was made to
use current market information as a basis for evaluating components wherev-
er possible.   The housing and employment center components essentially
involve the transformation of poorly serviced residential sites or unser-
viced land into serviced sites or lots.  Good market price information is
available for residential, commercial, and industrial lots in Recife in
various locations and with various levels of installed services. For these
zomponents, the price differential between the current site and an upgraded
site were used as the main measure of benefits.  In some cases, additional
benefits were estimated from savings in maintenance costs.   This approach
was used in components whose costs constituted 73% of total project costs.
The economic analysis of the garbage collection component was essentially
similar to the financial analysis.   Sensitivity tests were carried out to
ensure that the component would still be justified even if lower than ex-
pected quantities of gas are produced by the landfill sites.  The highway
upgrading component was analyzed using standard procedures based on savings
in vehicle operating costs, road maintenance, and passenger travel time.
For income creation components, analysis was based on the value of
increases  in output or reductions  in production costs.   In some cases,
segments of the component were analyzed separately or analyses of the in-
cremental rate of return of portions of the component were calculated. For
example, the road upgrading component was analyzed in five separate seg-
ments and the incremental return of the energy producing investments in the
landfill site was calculated.  This type of calculation helped the mission
determine the appropriate scale for some components.
C. Results of Economic Analysis
8.04      Table 8.1 presents the internal economic rates of return for each
component estimated according to the procedures outlined above.   The re-
sults indicate that all components are strongly justified in economic
terms, and that the employment-oriented components have particularly high
rates of return.



-47-
TABLE 8.1. Economic Analysis and Poverty Impact
Internal   Rate   Percent   Impacts   to   Poor
Component                     of Return            Benefits       Costs
Upgrading:  Recife               16                   74            74
Upgrading:  Jaboatao             18                   90            90
Upgrading:  COHAB                14                   88            91
Complementary infra-
structure                     20                    74            74
BR-101                           25                   59             7
Curado Urban Center             37                    NE            NE
CIMJ                            27                    NE            NE
Curado IV                        29                   70            70
Capibaribe River:  Housing       16                   21            11
Capibaribe River:  Park          15                   65            50
Garbage collection               22                   85            NE
Assistance to ME's:  UNO         50                  100           100
Assistance to ME's:  URB         73                  100           100
Assistance to ME's:  URJ         44                  100           100
Intermediation:  SETAS           39                   70            70
Intermediation:  URB             16                  100           100
Fisheries Component              27                   70            70
Shrimp Component                46                    30            30
NE=Not Estimated: insufficient data.
D. Urban Poverty Impact
8.05       The family urban poverty threshold in Northeast Brazil is esti-
mated to correspond to three minimum salaries, or Cr$ 10,300 per month in
1980.  This threshold was recently confirmed by a Bank financed research
project.   (See J. F. Hicks, Jr. and 0. M. Vetter, "Identifying the Urban
Poor in Brazil"; final report, IBRD - RPO 672-37 (December 1981)).  Nine-
teen seventy-eight data on the income distribution indicate that 62.4% of
the households in the Recife Metropolitan Region have incomes below the po-
verty threshold.   Of these 320,000 poor households,  between 70,000 and
105,000 receive inadequate public services.   For example,  estimates  in-
dicate that, in 1977, 105,000 poor households lacked water, 70,000 lacked
electricity, and 64,000 lacked more than rudimentary sanitary facilities.
The target upgrading areas included in this project contain large con-
centrations of these inadequately served households, and 80% of the house-
holds in these area are poor.   These 80% constitute approximately 44,000
households, 42% of the poor households in Recife who lack water and nearly
two-thirds of the poor households in Recife who lack electricity or rudi-
mentary sanitary facilities.   Since the income creation components  are
aimed almost exclusively at small businesses and independent workers, their



-48-
poverty impact would be virtually 100%.   Table 8.1 displays by component
the percentage of benefits and costs going to the poor.
E. Risks
8.06      This project involves risks with respect to project execution and
continuity of political commitment.
8.07      Execution.  Since the project involves a number of different com-
ponents to be executed by different agencies, there is a risk that individ-
ual components might not be executed efficiently.   The execution capacity
of each executing agency was appraised and the mission concluded that the
risk of any agency failing to carry out its responsibilities was small.
Since delays can be as troublesome as complete failures, implementation
schedules were checked in detail and adjusted to reflect realistic expec-
tations regarding local capacity.   Large projects were broken down into
subcomponents or phases to facilitate monitoring of progress and reprogramr
ing, should it be necessary.   Although the components are inter-related,
they are not interdependent in terms of execution.   This means that the
effects of a problem with one component would not spill over and cause
problems with other components.   In addition, a failure of one executing
agency to perform its responsibilities would not seriously affect the
benefits of the project as a whole.  Overall, it may be concluded that the
risk with respect to project execution is small.
8.08        Political Continuity.   Brazil will hold elections at the state
level in November 1982; state and most municipal governments will change in
March 1983.   There is some risk that the project will suffer from these
changes. First, the new governments may not be committed to the project.
This risk is small since there is a strong degree of political continuity
in the state of Pernambuco.   For example, FIDEM's management remained un-
changed through the last change in government and the state Secretary of
Planning assumed the same post in the Municipality of Recife. In addition,
the new government will find financing available for a large project that
will produce benefits early in its administration.   The mission believes
that there is little risk that the new government will not endorse the
project.   Second,  there may be a loss of momentum due to changes in key
personnel in the executing agencies.  This risk cannot be avoided; it can,
however,  be minimized.    The  preparation  schedule  for  the project  has
emphasized the start of works in as many cases as possible before the
elections or the change in government.  In addition, FIDEM is aware of the
problem and is prepared to play a strong management role to ensure that new
staff in the agencies understand and accept the project and their
responsibilities  under  it.   (This  is,  in fact,  a subcomponent  in  the
Institutional Development Subproject.)   SUDENE will also assist in this
process. In this way, the risk of a loss of momentum can be reduced to an
acceptable level.
IX. Recommendations
9.01        The signing of a SUDENE/FIDEM convenio acceptable to the Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness (SAR 6.19; LA 7.01 (b)).



-49-
9.02      It was agreed at negotiations that:
(a) the State and the Municipality of Recife would ensure the instal-
lation of electricity and telephone networks for the Curado Urban
Center, the CRV Development and the Jaboatao Industrial Park (SAR
4.06; PA 2.13 (a)--references are to the relevant sections of the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan Agreement (LA), and the
Project Agreement (PA)).
(b) FIDEM would carry out by June 30, 1983 a micro-zoning and
marketing study satisfactory to the Bank for the Curado Urban
Center (SAR 4.06; PA 2.13 (b));
(c) the State would ensure that DIPER recovers full land, infrastruc-
ture, operating, maintenance and administration costs for the
Jaboatao industrial park (SAR 4.08; PA 2.12);
(d) the Government of Brazil would take all necessary steps to ensure
the availability of lines of credit to micro-enterprises assisted
under the project (SAR 4.12; LA 3.05);
(e) SG/MINTER, SUDENE, the State, FIDEM, Recife and Jaboatao would,
in April of each year from 1982 to the year prior to the one in
which the project would be completed, review with the Bank pro-
gress in the previous 12 months and the revisions that may be
necessary to the annual financing plan, such revisions to be used
in the budget preparation process of all executing entities (SAR
5.03; LA 3.04; PA 2.06);
(f) Each project entity would maintain a separate project account and
FIDEM would maintain a consolidated project account (SAR 5.13; PA
4.01);
(g) SG/MINTER would arrange for independent audits of all project ac-
counts, and SG/MINTER would submit such accounts and audits to
the Bank not more than six months after the close of each fiscal
year (SAR 5.13; LA 4.02);
(h) FIDEM would present a monitoring and evaluation program to SUDENE
for approval by September 30, 1982.  SUDENE would submit the ap-
proved program to the Bank by October 31, 1982 (SAR 6.03; PA
2.07);
(i) the State and Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao would ensure
that all executing entities, in cooperation with FIDEM, establish
and/or maintain adequate project management and coordination sys-
tems (SAR 6.10; PA 2.09);
(j) to assist it in the execution of the garbage disposal subcompo-
nent, FIDEM would, by October 31, 1982, hire consulte"nts with ex-
perience in the management of bio-gas producing landfill sites
(SAR 6.18; PA 2.10 (c));



-50-
(k) within one year of loan signing, FIDEM would present to the Bank
for approval a proposed structure for the regional garbage dis-
posal company (SAR 6.18; PA 2.10 (b)) and, within two years of
loan signing, the State would create, and transfer responsibility
for garbage disposal operations to, the company (SAR 6.18; PA
2.11);
(1) the State of Pernambuco would: (i) make capital contributions to
COHAB of US$2 million equivalent in 1982 and US$1 million equi-
valent in 1983 and in 1984; (ii) ensure that COHAB maintains a
current ratio of not less than 1.5:1.0, taking all measures ne-
cessary to enable COHAB to do so; (iii) establish a coordination
system among state agencies to ensure the timely provision of in-
frastructure to COHAB projects; and, (iv) cause COHAB to devise
and implement a program satisfactory to the Bank to improve
collections of mortgage payments and to ensure that future per-
sonnel and general administrative expenses do not exceed 2% of
the total assets of COHAB (SAR 7.08; PA 4.03); and
(m)  (i) the State and the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao would
provide adequate resources for the operation and maintenance of
project facilities  (SAR 7.16;   PA 2.01  (d));   and  (ii)  FIDEM
would prepare by April 30 of each year an annual report for the
Bank containing an evaluation of the adequacy of operation and
maintenance expenditures (SAR 7.16; PA 2.08);
9.03      The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) for any component, the signing of a FIDEM/Executing Agency
convenio acceptable to the Bank (SAR 6.19; LA Schedule 1, 3 (b));
(b) for the provision of garbage collection equipment to any munici-
pality, tne initiation by that municipality of a program that
would ensure that revenues from solid waste management would cov-
er the full costs of operation, maintenance, and vehicle replace-
ment (SAR 7.19; LA Schedule 1, 3 (c));
(c) for the garbage disposal subcomponent, FIDEM would have signed a
convenio with the municipalities of the RMR establishing the
basic operational and financial relationships and procedures for
garbage collection and disposal and their intention to establish
a garbage disposal company (SAR 6.18; LA Schedule 1, 3 (d));
(d) for any component of the Institutional Development Subproject,
except for project management, acceptance by the Bank of a final
work program, including terms of reference and qualification
statements (SAR 4.20; LA Schedule 1, 3 (e));
(e)  for  the following  components--Recife  Upgrading  (Phase 1), CRV
Development (Phase I), Curado Urban Center, Curado IV Housing
Development, the first bio-gas plant, and the first three income
creation projects to complete final designs--Bank approval of the
final designs (SAR 5.09; LA Schedule 1, 3 (f));
9.04        Subject to the above conditions,  the project would be suitable
for a loan of US$123.9 million, for a period of 15 years, with a 3-year
grace period.



-51-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
RECIFE INTEGRATED METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS
TABLE 1:   Financial
TABLE 2:   Physical
TABLE 3:   Key Dates



BRASIL    PROJETO DE  DESENVOLVINENTO   DA REGIAS   NETROPOLITANA DO RECIFE
KEY INDICATORS: QUARTERLY EXPENDITURE, CUMULATIVE OUARTERLY EXPENDITURE, I CUMULATIVE PERCENTAGES.
1981                          1982                                     1983                                    1984                                      1985              CUSTOS
__  _    __------_ ------------------------------ _------ _------------------------------  ------   ------------------------------  ------_------------------------------   OTT 8T L
CUSTOS DO  COMPONENTE                          4          1         2         3         4         1         2          3         4         1         2         3          4        1          7         3         4      CamP.
UPGRADING (PCR)
CRSM                                8.55     11.46    254.90    693.16   1321.83   2665.25   1654.67   2354.17   1538.26   1747.82   1917.17   1170.69    723.97    216.46    220.60    100.76               16599,72
CRS(CUl)                            8.55     20.01    274.91    968.07   2289.90   4955.15   6609.82   8963.99  10502.25  12250,07  14167.24  15337.93  16061.90  16278.36  16498.96  16599.72
Cum Z                               0.05   0.12          1.66      5.83     13.79     29.85     39.82     54.00      63.27     73.80     85.35     92.40     96.76      98.06     99.39    180,O0
UPGRADING (COHNA)
CRS8                                                             128,48    351.63    583.52    620.02    655.25    756.37    053.45    946.48   1076.54   1183.82   1224.13    837.16    723.21    78,.52  18728.58
CRStCUM)                                                         128,48    480.11   1063.63   1683.65   2338.90   3095.27   3948.72   4895.20   5971.74   7155,56   8379.69   9216.85   9940.06  10728.58
CUM X                                                              1.20      4.48      9.91     15.69     21.80      28.0S     36.81     45.63     55.66     66.70      78.11     85.91     92.65    100,00
UPGRADING (PMJ)
CR88                                                   240.08    417.00    580,56    570.28    648.77    671.48    535.66    210.36                                                                            3874.19
CRS(CUH)                                              240.08    657,08   1237.64   1807.92   2456.69   3128.17   3663.83   3874.19
Cum X                                                   6.20      16,96     31.95     46.67     63.41     80.74      94.57    100.00
COMPLEMENTACAU
CROM                                          4.80      10.35      1.10    176,75    490.17    793.94    699.64    826.26    962.37    792.13    666.38   1450.90   1640.32    285.17    406.88               9207.16
CR$(CCU)                                      4.80      15.15     16.25    193.00    683.17   1477.11   2176.75   3003.01   3965.38   4757.51   5423.89   6874,79   8515.11   8800.28   9207.16
CuON                                          0.05      0.16       0.18      2.10      7.42     16.04     23.64      32.62     43.07     51.67     58.91     74.67      92.48     95.58    100.00
BR-101 RESTRUCTURING
CRSM                                                   37.90      90.14      9.38    715,24   1143,47     53.22    195.59   1377.79   1659.08   1226.02   1273.60   1271.24    738.62    588.58       27.83  10407.70
CR$(CUN)                                               37.90    128.04    137,42    852.66   1996.13   2049.35   2244.94   3622.73   5281.81   6507.83   7781.43   9052,67   9791.29  10379.87  10407.70
CUO  X                                                   0.36      1.23      1.32      8.19     19.18      19.69     21.57     34.01     50,75     62.53     74.77      86.98     94.08     99,73   looo.o
CURADO URBAN CENTER
CRSNM                                        65.52     30.53    148.91    485.43    461,92    432,09    355.71    462.13    605.19    639.46    454.89    239.67                                              4381,45
CROOCUM)                                     65.52     96.05    244.96    730.39   1192.31   1624.40   1980.11   2442.24   3047.43   3686.09   4141.78   4381.45
Cum 0                                         1.50      2.19       5.59     16.67     27.21     37.07     45.19      55.74     69.55     04.15     94.53    100,00
CURADO IU
CROr                                        298.76     85.03      88.38    507.90   1200,46   1321.05   1501.82   1733.59   1958.06   2167.11   1960.45   1927.08                                            14750.49
CRS(CUM)                                    298.76    383.79    472.17    980.07   2180.53   3501.58   5003.40   6736.99   8695.05  10862.16  12822.61  14750.49
CuNm                                          2.03      2.60       3.20      6.64     14.78     23.74     33.92      45.67     58.95     73.64     86.93    100.00
AREAS VAZIAS
CRSH                               13.80      4.46      96.54    192.22    380.24    634.77    861,32    584.60   1151.56   1526.30   1206.55    869.41   1660.88   1121.13    808.94    885.71    704,53  12702.96
CRS(CUM)                           13.80     18.26    114.80    307.02    687.26   1322.03   2183.35   2767.95   3919.51   5445.81   6652.36   7521.77   9182.65  10303.78  11112,72  198M ,43  12702,96
CUm Z                               0.11      0.14      0.90       2.42      5.41     10.41     17.19     21.79      30.86     42.07     52.37     59.21     72.29      81.11     87.48     94.45    100.00
CONJUNTO INDUSTRIAL NULTI-FABRIL/JAB
CRS8                                                    64.84     22.10     12.99    175,61    452.00    547.87    588.86    657.52    249.46                                                                  2771.25
CRS(CUM)                                               64.84      86.94     99.93    275,54    727.54   1275.41   1864.27   2521.79   2771.25
CUO  X                                                  2.34       3.14      3.61      9.94     26.25     46.02      67.27     91.00    100.00
GARBAGE COLLECTION I DISP.
CRSO                                         24.98    457.30    422,55    908,13   1921,32   1254,38    661.83    828.22    905.17   1560.87   1290.92    541.63        91.08     98.20     23.52     25,65  11015.75
CRS(CUM)                                     24.98    482.28    904,03   1812.96   3734.28   4988.66   5650.49   6478.71   7383.88   8944.75  10235.67  10777.30  10868.38  10966.50  10990.10  11015,75
CuO  0                                        0.23      4.38      8.21      16.46     33.90     45,29     51.29     50.81      67.03     81.20     92.92     97.84     98.66      W9.55     99.77    100,00
INCOME CREATION
CR$8                                          0.00    127.04    265.28    271,07    563.44    694.56    513.50    502.65    410.75    247.43    266.47    289.30    254.40    218.15    104.89    114.45   4043.30
CRS(CUO)                                      0.00    127.04    392.32    663.39   1226,83   1921.39   2434.89   2937.54   3340.29.  3595.72   3862.19   4151.49   4405.89   4624.04   4723.93   4e43,38
CUO  X                                        0.00      2.62      8.10      13,70     25.33     39.67     50.27     60.65      69.13     74.24     79.74     85.71     90.97      95.47     97.64    100.00
TURISNO
CRSO                                                              11.70     59.19    130,26    166.76    231.98    263.00    265.61    225.18    208.23      58.61      46.73     40.22                        1707.47
CR$(CUM)                                                          11.70     70.9    201.15    367.91    599.89    862.89   1128.50   1353.68   1561.91   1620.52   1667.25   1707.47
cum x                                                             0.69       4.15     11.78     21.55     35.13     50.54      66.09     79.28     91.48     94.91     97.64    100.00
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
CR00                                                    17.33    131.92    166,42    541.54    707.84    952.65    965.99   1033.72   1035.62    951.78    958.44    921.05    985.44    904.25    96005  11234.04
CRX(CLM)                                               17,33    149.25    315.67    857.21   1565,05   2517.70   3483.69   4517.41   5553.03   6504.81   7463.25   8384.30   936Y.74  10273.   11234,04
CuO  0                                                  0.15       1.33      2.81      7.63     13.93     22.41     31.01      40.21     49.43     57.90     66.43     74.63     83.40      91.45    100.00
HEALTH EDUCATION
CRS8                                                              16.74     19.70     54.47     52.76     66.29      70.67     65.72     87.87     99,88     99.33    146.73    165.55    124.56    108.46   1178.73
CRS(CUM)                                                          16.74     36.44     90.91    143.67    209.96    280.63    346.35    434.22    534.10    633.43    780.16    945.71   1070.27   1178.73
Cum N                                                              1.42      3,09      7,71     12,19     17.81     23.81      29.38     36.84     45.31     53.74     66.19      80.23     90.80    100.00
TOTAL     CRS8                               22,35    409.90   1421.84   2629,68   5251.22  10708.25  10803.63   9850.01  10418.81  12579.83  12734.41  10241.66  10408.03   6933.27   4398.05   3862.36   2729.49 115402.87
CRS(CUM)                           22.35    432.33   1854.17   4483.85   9735.07  20443,32  31246.95  41096.96  51515.77  64095.60  76830.01  07071.67  97479.70 104412.97 108811.02 112673.38 115402.87
Cum X                               0.02      0.37      1.61      3.89       0.44     17.71     27.08     35.61     44.64      55.54     66.58     75.45     84.47     90.48      94.29     97.63    100.00                  '



-53-                                                                                                   AM         
Ta2ieYI
BRA21L    RECIFE METROPOLITAN RE3ION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY INDICATIOS  PHYSICAL
-  1982                                  1983                                     1984                                      1985
COhPOKENT7                                     I         2          3         4         1          2         3          4         1         2         3          4        1           2         3         4
UPGRADING (PCR)
HE7T9RES                                                                     35,s5                                    83.2                                      82.6 36.85
    HA. HA..                                                                                                        31 9.50                                   203.15                                   239.X
29m I                                                                       15,30                                    58.300                                     50  92.8                               18,0
H6J0SHOLDS                                                                 2025,33                                  4725.00                                  48725.0                                   2025.00
cL9. HO3USEHOLDS                                                           2025,.x                                  6750.00                                  11475.00                                 13500.00
Cum 0                                                                        15.00                                    SO0                                       as.0x                                   100.30
L0P1RADING  (CO3)8
HEC1`H85                                                                                                                                                        47.00                                    40.00
CL I. HA.                                                                                                                                                       47,30                                    87.X0
CUh 1                                                                                                                                                           54,02                                   10.00
H3USING IO18000ENTS                                                        420.00                                  1860.00                                   1880.00                                  1880.00
CUh. IMPROVEMENTS                                                           420.00                                  228a.00                                   4140.00                                  6000.00
cL1 0                                                                         72.0                                    38,38                                     69.00                                   100.00
LIPERAIND (PKJ)
HECTARES                                                                     92.x0                                   256.00                                     18.00
CUM .KA.                                                                     92.30                                   348.00                                   366.D0
CUM                                                                         25.14                                    95.08                                    100.30
OUSEHOLDS                                                                  29so.x0                                  8000E00 X50.X0
CLM.4OUSEENOLDS                                                           27938.30                                 1090:o                                   11400.38
cum 0                                                                        25.44                                    95.61                                    388.38
CG7PL. INFRA8.(1840A8E)
KM.                                                                                                                    4.X                                       5,40
C22. KA.                                                                                                               4.38                                      9.40
CuI 0                                                                                                                 42.55                                   130.De
90830~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
RDADS
BR-101    KA.                                                                                                                   3J.X                                       5.x0                                     2.60
CLh.KK.                                                                                                                3.80                                    8a.0                                      30.60
C20 8                                                                                                                 28.30                                     75.47                                   130.00
CRV-PRIlWY KK.                                                                                                                   2.0                                       3.8                                      3.28
Ch.lKm.                                                                                                                2.30                                     5.X0                                      6200
Lh1                                                                                                                  32.26                                    88.65                                    100.80
D2C -IRWY KK.                                                                                                                                                              2.20
CU1.K8.                                                                                                                                                         2.20
aim10                                                                                                                                                          300 .00
190B033E0 LAND
CC        2ECTARES                                                                                                              20.X0                                     45-7
C29.48.                                                                                                               20.00                                     62. 0
CUM 1                                                                                                                 30.35                                   230.30
CRY       848RES                                                                        2.3                                     59s.0                                     s7.x0                                   6a.o0
23CL.h8.                                                                     15.38                                    7400                                     171.00                                   236.0
CLh 8                                                                         6.36                                    30.36                                    72.46                                    008.30
DIIELLING L4TS                                                                                                                                    500s.0    80o.3       80.30    B           O.0   00    80.30
CUK.D.U.                                                                                                                                            500s.3    1300.0    2100.30   290.30   3730.00   4500.00
CUm                                                                                                                                                  3 31.30   28.89      46.67     64.44     82.22    306.06
IKDUTRIAL AMs
AB. I.P.  2EC99ES                                                                      9.3       13.0       3.90
DCUI M. 9N0.                                                                           19.3      22.90
CmK1                                                                         39 30     82.97    138.38
CUC        21CT8ES                                                                                                                                  103        10.3      24.10
CM8. HA.                                                                                                                                   10.3      2.3        44,10
C21 X                                                                                                                                      22.68     45.35    20D.30
I3N0TR14L 000ILDIN4S
JA. I.P. 55. 800                                                                               3Mm.0               '9 3                 13400,00            13400.    6417.30
CU. 0S. s .                                                                          3500 .0             11 4E88.00          24E88.38             38290. 0  44697. 0
CU1 1                                                                                   7.83                25.68               55.66                80.64    130.0:
TA. TO KICRO3ErP2SAS
UK4       8E0s AI3STED                                                                                     900.30                                  1238.38                                  1500.3
8. 4                                                                                            900.x0                                   21703.3                                  3600.30
CU2. 0                                                                                            25.30                                    58.33                                   100.0x
REC8VB   NE'S A63SSTED                                                                                    1200.30                                  1600.00                                  2000.30
cm1. 4                                                                                          1230.30                                  2800 .00                                 400 .
C28. 0                                                                                            22.0                                     SB.33                                   138.3
JAWRJ   80S ASSISTED                                                                                       600.00                                   830.00                                  1380.2O
C234  8                                                                                         600,00                                   1400.0                                   2400.00
CU1. 1                                                                                            22.38                                    50.33                                   300.30
INTERME.DIATID1
REC/URB   4 OF SNORT-TERN JOBS                                                                            2250.00                                  3250.00                                   3250.10
C1. 4                                                                                           22.O00                                   5500s.x                                  8750.
C2U. z                                                                                            25.71                                    62.86                                   10:.00
I GF 8RAI0EES                                                                                   256.x0                                    706..                                    70.02
00. 8                                                                                          ss6.00                                   122.3                                    1871 .
C0. Z                                                                                            23.2:                                    64.02                                   1.00"c
SETAS     I 4F SHORT-TERM JOBS                                                                           2220.2                                   30600.00                                  47800.OC
un. 8                                                                                         13238.22                                 4 036.800                                87630.00
12. 1                                                                                            15.07                                    50.30                                   01.21
t OF TRAINEES                                                                                   6.0.88                                   :530.00                                  2192.22
CU. t                                                                                          660.00                                   2190.a00                                 4328.2
U2. 1                                                                                           33.49                                    111.11loo1.



-54-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF BIDDING AND AWARD OF SELECTED LARGE CONTRACTS
Confirmed by FIDEM 04/06/82
BIDDING    CONSTRUCTION
DOCUMENTS      CONTRACT
ISSUED         SIGNED
1. CURADO IV
1.1  Earthworks, roads and drainage           07/82         09/82
1.2  Water and Sewer                          08/82          10/82
1.3  Housing - Stepped terraced               10/82          12/82
1.4  Housing - Core Dwellings                 10/82          12/82
1.5  Housing - Apartments                     10/82          12/82
2.  CUC (CENTER)
2.1  Earthworks, roads and drainage           06/82         08/82
2.2  Water and sewer                          05/82         07/82
2.3  Park and pedecA-ian overpass             01/83         03/83
3.  SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
3.1  Land Fill - Timbo II                     05/82         07/82
3.2  Land Fill - Sul                          08/82          10/82
3.3  Transfer Station - Olinda                05/82         07/82
3.4  Transfer Section - Sul                   06/82          08/82
3.5  Equipment collection vehicle             06/82          08/82
4. BR-101
4.1 Earthworks and drainage
Lot A                                    05/83         07/83
4.2 Paving
Lot A                                    08/82         10/83
5. JABOATAO INDUSTRIAL PARK
Lot A                                    08/82         10/82
6. CAPIBARIBE R.V. DEVELOPMENT
6.1  Earthworks                               04/82         06/82
6.2  Roads                                    06/82         08/82
6.3  Sanitary Sewage                          06/82         08/82



-55-
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
RECIFE INTEGRATED METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
TABLE 1: Best Estimate
TABLE 2: Optimistic Estimate
TABLE 3: Pessimistic Estimate



-56-                                              ANNEX 2
Table 1
BRAZIL                                            Table  2
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION                                  Table  3
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
HALF-YEAR          DISBURSEMENTS BY            CUMULATIVE DISBUR-          CUMULATIVE X
ENDING           HALF-YEAR (USWM)*            SEMENTS (USIIE              DISBURSEMENTS
TABLE 1: BEST ESTIMATE
DEC 1982                0.59                        0.59                        0.49
JUN 1983                4.97                        5.56                        4.56
DEC 1983                9.88                       15.43                        12.65
JUN 1984               15.78                       31.21                       25,59
DEC 1984               15.78                       46.99                       38.52
JUN 1985               17.81                       64.80                       53.12
DEC 1985               13.26                       78.06                       63.99
JUN 1986               12.35                       90.41                       74.11
DEC 1986                6.32                       96.73                       79.29
JUN 1987               6b.32                      103.05                       84.47
DEC 1987                6.32                      109.37                       89.64
JUN 1988                6.32                      115.68                       94.82
DEC 1988                6.32                      122.00                      100.00
TABLE 2: OPTIMISTIC ESTIMATE
DEC 1982                0.94                        0.94                        0.77
JUN 1983                7,61                        8.55                        7.01
DEC 1983               15.12                       23.67                       19.40
JUN 194               23,02                       46.69                       38.27
DEC 1984               23,27                       69,95                       57,34
JUN 1985              22.31                        92.27                       75.63
DEC 1985               16.64                      108.91                       89.27
JUN 1986                9.21                      118.12                       96.82
DEC 1986                3.88                      122.00                      100.00
TABLE 3: PESSIMISTIC ESTIMATE
DEC 19'82               0.24                        0.24                        0.20
JUN 1983                2.32                        2.56                        2.10
DEC 1983                4.64                        7,20                        5.90
JUN 1984                8.54                       15.74                       12,.90
DEC 1984                8.30                       24,G03                      19.70
JUN 1985               13.3G                       37.33                       30.60
IIEC 1985               9.88                       47.21                       38.70
JUN 1986               15.49                       t2.71                       51.40
DEC 19?6                3.78                       71.49                       58.60
JUN 1987               15.01                       '6.50                       70.90
DEC 1987                5.73                       92.23                       75.60
JUN i988               12'.32                     104.55                       85.70
DEC 1988                3,78                      108.34                       88,8.
-AiUN 1989              7.69                      116.02                       95,10
iDEC 1989               2.8i                      1183,3                       97-40
JUN ;990                3.17                      122.00                      100.00
* NOT INCLUDING FPONT-ENTD FEE.



-57-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
RECIFE INTEGRATED METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. Background Documents
Al. III National Development Plan, 1980-85, September 1979
A2. Brazil - Public Sector Investment Survey: The Urban Sector, J.
Hicks and R. Sarley, April 1980
A3. Identifying the Urban Poor in Brazil, J. Hicks and D. Vetter,
December 1981
A4. Spatial Structure of the Metropolitan Regions of Brazil, Yoon Joo
Lee, City Study Project Paper, No. 19, IBRD, June 1981
A5. Preliminary Results of 1980 Census
A6. RMR - Plano de Desenvolvimento Integrado, FIDEM, 1976
A7.  Programa de Investimentos Publicos na RMR - 1980-1983, FIDEM,
October 1979
A8. Programa MINTER/BIRD/RMR, (3 vols.), FIDEM, September 1981
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B1. Projeto Recife (15 vols.), URB/PCR, August 1981
B2. Projeto de Recuperacao de Assentamentos Sociais, (2 vols.),
COHAB, August 1981
B3. Projeto Yapoatan (Jaboatao) (12 vols.), URJ/PMJ, August 1981
B4. BR-101 (4 vols.), FIDEM, June 1981
B5. Programa Habitacional de Curado IV, (3 vols.), COHAB, September
1981
B6. Centro Urbano de Curado (20 vols.), FIDEM, August 1981
B7. Conjunto Industrial Multifabril de Jaboatao, (6 vols.), DIPER,
July 1981



-58-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
B8. Limpeza Urbana - Estudo de Viabilidade, FIDEM, August 1981
B9. 15 volumes on Income Creation Projects
C.  Selected Working Papers
Cl. Metropolitan Region Context, (2 vols.), Charles J. Fortin, August
1981
C2. Background Document on Metropolitan Regions (prepared by CNDU),
June 1981



-59-
CHART 1
BRAZIL
RECIFE INTEGRATED METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Funds
I.B.R.D.
35%                15X
MINTER                              BNHl
50%
SUDENE                           30%
50%               10%
BANDEPE      I  (FINANCIAL
FUNDERM                            COHAB-PE          AGENTS)
60%                                30%               10%
EXECUTING  AGENCIES






BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
PROJECT COMPONENT LOCATION
-           ' S  z  I0 L                            N                                                                            A                     '
,N                     " "a'C<I 6K   ,                                                                 /                      , /     
/~~~~~~
(I~~~~ ~~ IL/<uu ~          2            t\                             !r[!
.                                                                                                                                            I -  l/    i  \  j  /  /  >   ltomaraca
R~.FN'k /                                                                                                 \/                                                 t.
\                              ~~~~~~NORTHERN  NUCLEUSj            .)         i'_.:
jz                                     ~~~~~~~~~Sao Loreu n\  5o  
/                       N               9              <\ \        i | li Yt0:  ';          it;:    .    '~~~~~~~~~~~~Olinda
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETR                                                                                                       RECfIFE
A*A' \ /     /                                                          /R                                       / URB-PCR
:                                                            -        /    <,,=  !              ,Y,g,,m5&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R-c+t/ COHAB-PE
!                                                                 /          :-                 I=       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J.b..t../ujRj-PMJ
/                                                                 /               -.                  P    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G-rb.g. D, sposol Sa-s
:AA'A~,,A,AAA,A'                                       _~AA'A~ AAIA'CA. AG ACOrn A'IA CC-do Urbon C-.r
A'/A'AA~CCtCA', '  I-d. IV L.. I-cm H--
i                                                      ww         t  !          -                             1    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Urb-n )-velp-et of the
j                                       :        / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /  > M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.plb-rbe R-,e V.11.y
/                  /I.                               a                               om  ocd
-   f- J SO$uT-Ro.'   \                                                           R
\  L E `LEi 5                                                             l\I  _I rn-a il B
NJ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~      -
--A                                          o        a   t                                        K L Mrs         T   |   I  E  6      8      1
<~~~~~~~~~~~~o Lo uren l 5o
To GA~~
-I\                                                                                                              



