Document of                 FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-33 17-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PR(
May 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CU1RENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981             April 30, 1982
Currency Unit  =       Cruzeiro (Cr$)                     Cr$
US$1            =      Cr$53.25                   US$1 = Cr$155.60
Cr$1            =      US$0.14                    US$1 = 0.0064
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report is based on the
December 1981 cruzeiro exchange rate (US$1 = Cr$65.5).
II



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNH          Banco Nacional de Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
CNDU         Conselho Nacional do Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Council for Urban Development)
COHAB        Companhia de Habitacao
(State Housing Company)
CRV          Capibaribe River Valley
CUC          Centro Urbano do Curado
(Curado Urban Center)
DIPER        Companhia do Desenvolvimento Industrial de Pernambuco
(Industrial Development Company of Pernambuco)
EBTU         Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanas
(Brazilian Urban Transport Company)
FIDEM        Fundacao de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana do Recife
(Foundation for the Development of the Metropolitan Region of
Recife)
FUNDERM      Fundo de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana
(Development Fund for the Metropolitan Region)
PDI          Plano de Desenvolvimento Integrado
(Integrated Development Plan)
PIP          Planos de Investimentos Publicos
(Public Investment Plans)
POT          Plano de Organizacao Territorial
(Territorial Organization Plan)
RMR          Regiao Metropolitana do Recife
(Recife Metropolitan Region)
SG/MINTER    Secretaria Geral/Ministerio do Interior
(General Secretariat/Ministry of Interior)
SDU/MINTER   Subsecretaria do Desenvolvimento Urbano/Ministerio do Interior
(Sub-secretariat for Urban Development/Ministry of Interior)
SUDENE       Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$123.9 million equivalent, including front-end fee
Terms:          Interest at 11.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace
Beneficiaries: The municipalities of Recife and Jabotao in the State of
Pernambuco would benefit from all the project components,
while the other seven municipalities belonging to the Recife
Metropolitan Region would benefit from the garbage
collection and disposal, and technical assistance
components.
Relending
Terms:       The Borrower would make the proceeds of the loan available
to the state of Pernambuco as grants. The state would pass
on the loan proceeds through FIDEM/FUNDERM as grants to
state and municipal agencies responsible for the execution
of the various project components. These agencies would
recover the cost of these components from final
beneficiaries through charges or taxes.
Project
Description: The proposed project would finance a set of priority
investments and programs designed to alleviate the problems
of urban growth and poverty as well as to improve the
efficiency of the management, of the economic and physical
planning, and of the delivery of services in the Recife
Metropolitan Region.
The proposed project includes the following main
components: (a) the upgrading of several low-income
settlements and poor neighborhoods with a total population
of more than 150,000 persons; (b) the provision of
infrastructure, including restructuring a trunk road;
land development, provision of basic urban services
(drainage, paved roads, sanitation, electricity and
telephone), for the construction of low and middle income
housing and for commercial centers, factories and industrial



- ii -
workshops and warehouses; the development of a small
industrial park; and a garbage collection and disposal
system; (c) technical assistance and training to small and
informal sector enterprises and cooperatives, and improved
labor market information services, for employment creation
and income improvement; and (d) institutional strengthening
and staff training for the metropolitan, state and municipal
agencies responsible for project implementation, in order to
improve economic and physical planning, as well as
administrative and financial management in the metropolitan
region.
Sixty percent of works and services amounting to about
44% of project costs would benefit directly an estimated
200,000 people with incomes below the relative urban poverty
level. In addition, incomes would be increased for about
30,000 individuals.
Risks:          The proposed project involves limited risks with respect to
project execution. The execution capacity of each executing
agency and implementation schedules were thoroughly
appraised, and substantial experience has already been
gained with SDU/MINTER, FIDEM, the Municipality of Recife,
and COHAB through three previous Bank-financed projects
(First Urban Transport, Sites and Services and Medium-Sized
Cities). The change in state and municipal governments
likely in March 1983 as a result of the November 1982
elections may temporarily affect the rate of project
execution in 1983. The consensus of all political parties
and federal and local technical agencies on the approach and
investments recommended for the metropolitan region, and the
continuity in project management that will be provided by
FIDEM and SUDENE make these risks acceptable.



- iii -
Estimated                                         ----    US$ Millions-------
Costs:                                         Local      Foreign      Total
A. Low-Income and Poor Neighborhood
Upgrading
Slum Upgrading - Recife Municipality    31.39           9.90       41.29
Slum Upgrading - COHAB                     14.56        4.60       19.16
Slum Upgrading - Jaboatao Municipality   9.52           3.01       12.53
Complementary Infrastructure CRV           13.44        4.25       17.69
Sub-Total                              68.91       21.76       90.66
B. Metropolitan Infrastructure
BR-101 Restructuring                       14.84        4.68       19.52
Curado Urban Center                         8.93        2.82       11.75
Curado IV                                  26.84        8.48       35.32
Capibaribe River Valley-Development        18.04        5.70       23.77
Industrial Park - Jaboatao                  5.43        1.71        7.14
Garbage Collection and Disposal            23.48        7.42       30.90
Sub-Total                              97.59       30.81      128.40
C.  Income Creation                                9.43        2.98      12.41
Tourism                                       2.97         .94        3.91
Sub-Total                              12.40        3.92       16.32
D.  Institutional Development                     18.23        5.76      23.99
Health, Education and Community Support    1.62             .51       2.13
Sub-Total                              19.85        6.27       26.12
E. Total Project
Baseline Costs                            198.74       62.76      261.50
Physical Contingencies                     26.46        8.36       34.82
Price Contingencies                        39.12       12.36       51.48
F.  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  1/                     264.32       83.48      347.80
G.  Front-End Fee on Loan                           --         1.83       1.83
H.  Total Financing Required                     264.32       85.31     349.63
1/ Local taxes are insignificant.



- iv -
Financing                                        -----US$ Millions-------
Plan:                                         Local      Foreign      Total
Federal Government                        51.83         -         51.83
State and Municipalities                 173.90         -        173.90
IBRD                                      38.59       85.31      123.90
TOTAL                                264.32       85.31     349.63
Estimated
Disbursements:
…_______-----------…US$ Millions-------------------
Bank FY         83      84       85      86        87       88       89
Annual         7.39   25.65   40.98   25.61    12.64    12.63        6.22
Cumulative    7.39   33.04   66.63   92.24   104.88   117.51   123.90
Rate of
Return:      The rate of return for the project components representing
95% of project costs has been estimated at 21%. The
institutional development, health education, and tourism
components were excluded from the economic analysis.
Staff
Appraisal
Report:      No. 3863a-BR of May 7, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR A
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Repubic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$123.9
million to help finance a Recife Metropolitan Region Development Project in
the State of Recife. The proposed loan would have a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled  Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new economic
memorandum is scheduled for May 1982. Country data are provided in
Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention
has had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-
of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum, expan-
sion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings. Success on
these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living stand-
ards and better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        In the 13 years ending in 1980, Brazil enjoyed high economic
growth, with GDP rising at about 9% per annum. During the 1967-73 period,
growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the external
resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there also
occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. However,
given the dependence of Brazil's industry and transport system on
petroleum, over 80% of which was imported, the quadrupling of oil prices in
1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration in the nation's terms of trade.
Excess aggregate demand and a succession of bad harvests, along with higher
energy costs, resulted in balance-of-payments difficulties and the
acceleration of inflation.
5.        Coping with these constraints, while responding to pressures to
maintain growth of output and employment and simultaneously establishing
the basis for structural adjustment, has been the central problem of
Brazilian economic management. At the same time that success was achieved
in maintaining growth, an innovative effort was launched to reduce energy
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Agriculture Development Project for the
State of Amazonas, dated May 10, 1982.



consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported petro-
leum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were contained
through the expansion of exports (particularly of manufactures), increased
import barriers, import substitution, and heavy external borrowing.
However, the rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports,
and intensification of inflationary pressures increased the economy's
vulnerability to further external shock, and that vulnerability was
severely tested by the sharp increases in petroleum prices and interest
rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
6.        Measures were taken in 1979 and 1980 to improve control over
public sector spending and monetary expansion. These included increased
central authority over the investments and borrowings of public enter-
prises, the phasing-out of tax earmarkings, and the reduction of consumer
and producer subsidies. Nevertheless, aggregate demand continued to grow
strongly, placing severe pressure on prices and the balance of payments.
In 1980, inflation accelerated to 110% (from 41% in 1978), and, despite a
32% growth of exports and significant reduction in the volume of petroleum
imports, the current account deficit grew to almost US$13 billion (compared
to $6 billion in 1978). At the same time, Brazil's international reserves
fell from US$11.9 billion to $6.9 billion, and terms tightened on new
foreign borrowing.
7.        In response to the deteriorating situation, and strengthened by
the institutional reforms of the previous two years, constraints were
imposed on aggregate demand in 1981, and efforts to correct the trade
balance were increased. The public sector deficit and the monetary aggre-
gates were reduced in real terms. In an effort to encourage private finan-
cial savings and maintain export incentives, monetary correction and
exchange rate adjustments, which were allowed to lag in 1980, were brought
back into line with inflation.  Banks were freed from interest rate
controls on their lending, and rates were increased on official credit
programs. Some tax incentives to exports, which had been eliminated in the
wake of a large devaluation of the cruzeiro at the end of 1979, were
restored, while the foreign exchange transactions tax on imports was raised
from 15% to 25%.
8.        As a consequence of these measures, the economy entered into
recession in 1981. Despite an estimated 8% growth of agricultural output,
GDP declined around 4%. The industrial sector was hard hit by high
interest rates and cutbacks in public expenditures, and unemployment has
increased in the industrial centers. Manufactured exports, however, have
continued to grow rapidly (32.6% in nominal terms), and a merchandise trade
surplus of US$1.2 billion was achieved in contrast to deficits of $2.8 bil-
lion in both 1979 and 1980. The 1981 surplus also reflected zero growth of
imports, including the further reduction of petroleum imports. Despite
sharply higher interest payments abroad, the current account deficit was
cut by some US$2 billion. Inflation for the year was reduced to 95% with a
steadily declining trend evident through the second half of the year. No
problems were experienced in obtaining the US$11.5 billion in net external
financing required in 1981. In contrast to both 1979 and 1980, foreign
exchange reserves increased by US$600 million in 1981. Total medium- and
long-term external debt outstanding at year-end was about US$61.4 billion.



-3-
Poverty Programs
9.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to efforts to maintain the growth of employment and
prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the tight fiscal and monetary
restraints. Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is
now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Almost two
million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank (BNH)
since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services to
the urban and rural poor is a government priority in the health sector. A
program for grassroots health and sanitation actions for northeast Brazil
was initiated in 1976. A sites and services program was established in
1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in
1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building materials. High
priority has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban
water supply. Consequently, some six million households comprising about
30 million people have been connected to public water supply systems since
1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services
to 75%.2/
Future Prospects
10.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS,
the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production,
to substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and
to exploit Brazil's shale oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to
induce energy conservation. While results thus far are encouraging,
dependence on imported energy remains formidable. With oil imports consti-
tuting an estimated US$10.3 billion (nearly 44% of Brazil's imports) in
1981, as compared to US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off
between growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a
principal preoccupation of economic decision-makers.
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Accelerated
devaluations of the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements,
the phasing-out of tax subsidies to exports, and the gradual freeing of
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments may continue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders,
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



- 4 -
including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a significant proportion
of project costs including a part of local costs when necessary.
Furthermore, priority attention has to be given to the development of
domestic energy sources, agriculture, and the stimulation of domestic
savings.
12.       Growth is expected to recover to about 5% in 1982 and to average
about 6% per annum in 1981-86, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in
1973-80. Such a growth rate should be compatible with a gradually
declining current account deficit. The debt service ratio would also
decline slowly.  These projections are sensitive, however, to petroleum
prices, interest rates, and the rate of growth of manufactured exports.
The combination of high debt service and a high share of petroleum in total
imports leaves the economy vulnerable, and this may be expected to persist
for several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Brazil's resource balance is expected to become positive in
1982, but interest payments on the external debt will increase throughout
the 1982-86 period, even if interest rates should decline.  Thus, large
service account deficits will contribute to current account deficits
through 1986. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is
projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.4% in 1980. This projection
assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through 1985, reflecting
restrained demand, and a strengthening of the domestic savings effort.
14.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to
be around US$9 billion in 1982, and to decline thereafter. Gross borrowing
would be about US$16 billion this year and remain in the US$15-16 billion
range over the five-year period, with 70% obtained as financial credits
from private lenders. Consequently, the net debt service ratio3/ would
decline from about 54% in 1981 to about 39% in 1986.
15.       In summary, after a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and
1970s, the increased cost of petroleum imports has forced the nation to
moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic structure to the
changed terms of trade.  This adjustment process was initially eased by a
strong reserve position, a solid image of creditworthiness, the aggressive
expansion of manufactured exports, and the opportunities for efficient
import substitution offered by the large domestic market. Nevertheless,
heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of inflation, and the
rapid accumulation of external debt left the economy vulnerable to external
shocks. The government recognizes the need for careful demand management
and for selectivity in its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in
export expansion, import substitution, employment creation, and poverty
alleviation.
3/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1980 the
public sector accounted for 61% of total debt service payments.



- 5 -
16.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and interest rates makes projections subject to a wide margin of
error. The present scenario also depends on Brazil's ability to curtail
inflation, expand manufactured exports, and on its access to international
capital.  A major effort is underway to reduce dependence on foreign petro-
leum, but significant results may not be apparent for several years. On
the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and
resilient. The task of economic management will not be easy, but policy-
makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing circumstances,
and recent policy measures have strengthened their management capacity.
Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms
in the amounts indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
17.       By March 31, 1982 the Bank had made 110 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$6,310.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 58 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77,
US$252 million in FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and
US$378 million in FY81. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1982 was
US$3,003.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. So far in FY82, five loans total-
ling US$529.1 million for the first and second phases of Bank participation
in the POLONOROESTE program and for a power distribution project have been
approved. Work is advanced on an agricultural and rural development pro-
ject in the states of Amazonas and Maranhao, a third loan for secondary and
feeder roads, an urban engineering project for the cities of Fortaleza and
Salvador, a large iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas, and the
third-phase project of the northwest region development program.
19.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1980 amounted to US$63 billion, and is estimated to
have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. At the end of 1980, the Bank
held 3.9% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1980
was 2%. In 1981, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated
to have risen slightly to 4.2% while its share in total debt service
remained constant. These percentages are not expected to rise signi-
ficantly in the next five years.
20.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$819.5
million, of which US$542.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$273.3 million, US$207.6 million represent loans and
US$65.7 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31,
1982 is given in Annex II.



-6-
Lending Strategy
21.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the govern-
ment achieve important development objectives which are inter-dependent.
One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of the
government to identify and develop projects that will increase the produc-
tivity of the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden the
opportunities open to those groups, and to improve their living condi-
tions. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas
Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans for
urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban popula-
tion, particularly of the urban poor. Previous loans for nutrition
research and development, primary education, vocational training, agricul-
tural research and extension, and integrated rural development were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in
the northeast.
22.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure
that they are used economically through rational selection of projects.
This institution-building objective is particularly important in the
proposed project which seeks to build up planning and administration capa-
bilities required at the state and local levels for metropolitan region
development activities. Loans for urban development, electric power, rail-
ways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension,
rural development, water supply and sewerage, and for alcohol and biomass
energy development also have important institution-building objectives.
23.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. Lending for the electric power sector supports this
objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and
petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute large-scale
efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-of-
payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project
addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
24.       A final objective is to provide part of the medium- and long-term
capital inflows that needs to sustain growth and achieve its employment
creation and regional development objectives. Continued lending by the
Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as a
sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages others to continue contributing
to the country's development. In some sectors, especially in electric
power and industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional
resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms frombilateral
credit agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have



- 7 -
been provided. Eleven co-financing operations, for more than US$425 mil-
lion, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial institutions
and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
25.       Over the last three decades, Brazil has experienced rapid urban-
ization, with a concentration of population in the nine large metropolitan
areas: Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in the southeast; Belo Horizonte in
the center west; Curitiba and Porto Alegre in the south; Fortaleza, Recife
and Salvador in the northeast; and Belem in the north. In 1950, the urban
population of 18.8 million represented 36% of the population of Brazil. In
1980, the urban population had increased to 80.5 million, representing 68%
of the total population. Urban population growth averaged about 5% a year
over the 1960-1970 decade, and fell to about 4.5% a year during the 1970-
1980 decade. This recent decline may be due to the slower rate of indus-
trialization combined with increased rural migration to agricultural
frontier areas of the north and center-west.4/ Important disparities
exist between regions throughout the country: the rapid growth of the
urban population was highly concentrated in the southeast, center-west and
south of the country. The rapid urban growth in the northeast is mostly
explained by the exodus of the rural population from the areas recurrently
affected by droughts, and more recently by the attraction of industrial
jobs.
26.       Although metropolitan regions continue to grow at rates ranging
from 2.5% for Recife to 5.8% for Curitiba, and still accounted in 1980 for
29% of Brazil population and 43% of its urban population, medium-sized
cities with populations of 100,000 to 200,000 have exceeded by a large
margin the growth rates of metropolitan regions since the 1960s, confirming
a process of development towards the interior of the country, away from the
Coast.
The Urban Problem
27.       The majority of urban centers has been unable to cope with the
fast rates of population growth. The physical growth of these centers has
been disorderly as they did not have physical-spatial plans nor legislation
to regulate the location of industries, residential areas and transport
infrastructure. In addition, the delivery of services has lagged behind
demand, and job creation has not always kept up with the increase in the
economically active population. For example, the demand for shelter and
urban services, especially in metropolitan areas, remains unsatisfied
despite the government's continued efforts. Each year more than 500,000
families must find a place to live. In the south, in Sao Paulo in 1976,
26% of the population lived in substandard dwellings, 35% did not have
adequate access to potable water and 65% lacked sewerage facilities. The
4/ The 1980 census data are now being analyzed to test some of these
hypotheses.



- 8 -
situation is worse in the Northeast where, in a city like Salvador in 1975,
52% of the population lived in substandard housing, 27% of the population
had inadequate access to potable water, and 90% had no sewerage facil-
ities. Public transportation is often inaccessible or of difficult access
to the low-income residential areas, therefore limiting the accessibility
of job opportunities of low-income groups.
28.       A large proportion of the population lives in relative poverty.
In Brazil, the urban poverty group is identified as the families whose
monthly earnings are less than three times the minimum wage. In mid-1980,
this threshold was equivalent to an annual income of US$550 per head,
taking the minimum wage in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro as reference, which
is close to one-fourth of Brazil's current per capita income of US$2050.
According to the Bank's definition of the relative urban poverty line
(one-third the average national per capita income adjusted for urban/rural
price differences), at the time of the 1970 national census, the percentage
of families living in urban poverty ranged from 55% in Curitiba to 77% in
Salvador, the largest city of the northeast; some 41% lived in relative
poverty in greater Sao Paulo, the country's largest metropolitan region.
Urban Policy and Institutions
29.       Formulation of a national urban policy began with the Second
National Development Plan for the period 1975-79. The policies recommended
in the Plan were that: (a) the administrative systems of municipalities
and metropolitan regions should be strengthened and the provision of basic
infrastructure consolidated, while taking measures to prevent further
concentration of population and economic activity between regions,
particularly in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo; (b) that medium-sized cities
should be developed to strengthen the second tier of the urban structure
and develop cities in the interior; and (c) the Government's priority
investments in the urban sector should be for housing, water supply and
sewerage, pollution control, and improved transport service. The same
ideas were taken up again in the Third National Development Plan (1980-85).
30.       The three main federal institutions in the urban sector are:  the
National Urban Development Council (CNDU), an inter-ministerial council
established in 1975, responsible for overall urban policy and programming
of which the Subsecretariat for Urban Development in the Ministry of
Interior (SDU/MINTER) is the executive arm; the National Housing Bank
(BNH), created in 1964 and responsible for investments in housing and
complementary infrastructure (water supply, sewerage, etc.); and the
Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU), founded in 1976 and responsible
for urban transport investments. Through these agencies, the Government is
attempting to achieve its urban development goals by means of a variety of
programs. The more important are: (a) the metropolitan regions program
and the medium-sized cities program, administered by CNDU under which the
federal government finances physical investments as well as training and
institutional development to states and municipalities; (b) the Popular
Housing Program, the Water and Sewerage Program, and the Urban
Rehabilitation Program (under which the Federal Government finances urban
improvements in these sectors), administered by BNH; and (c) the Urban
Transport Program, administered by EBTU, which aims at improving the
accessibility of public transportation to lower income groups. BNH absorbs



- 9 -
the largest share of the federal urban investment budget:  its 1980 invest-
ment program was Cr$152 billion (US$2.33 billion), 92% of the total. EBTU
accounted for 7% of the total with Cr$12.1 billion and CNDU for 1% with
Cr$1.3 billion.
Brazilian Metropolitan Regions System
31.       The difficulties of providing adequate urban services in the face
of urban growth trends that were producing physically integrated but admin-
istratively independent conurbations have long been recognized in Brazil:
in 1967, the revised Federal Constitution included provisions enabling
legislation that foresaw the creation of "metropolitan regions" to facil-
itate the provision of common services. However, it was not until 1973
that the first eight metropolitan regions -- Sao Paulo, Belo Horizonte,
Porto Alegre, Curitiba, Recife, Salvador, Fortaleza, and Belem were
created.   Rio de Janeiro was added in 1974.  The metropolitan regions law
required the creation, by the respective states, of Advisory and
Deliberative Councils, the latter with responsibility for: (a) the prepa-
ration of integrated metropolitan region development plans and programs for
the provision of common services; and (b) the coordination and execution of
programs and projects of metropolitan scope, with the objective of
unifying, where possible, common services. The law defined "common
services" to include:  (a) integrated development planning; (b) basic sani-
tation (water, sewerage, and garbage collection); (c) metropolitan land
use; (d) transportation and the road system; (e) the production and distri-
bution of piped gas; and (f) water resource use and pollution control.
32.       The law has two particularly interesting features.  It estab-
lishes that the states are responsible for ensuring that common services
are programmed and provided in metropolitan regions in a coordinated
manner. It supports the Deliberative Councils in a practical way by estab-
lishing that municipalities that participate in the activities of the
Deliberative Councils will be given preference in the allocation of state
and federal resources. This provision was strengthened by a subsequent
decree that established that federal funds could be used in metropolitan
regions only for projects that were compatible with the metropolitan devel-
opment plan.
Bank Strategy and Involvement in the Sector
33.       Bank involvement in the urban sector is based on the premise that
attempts to change the spatial distribution of population, economic activ-
ity, and employment need to be complemented by well-designed programs that
deal more directly with the problems of the urban poor. Given the scale of
Brazil's urban problems and the scarcity of funds available for investment,
the Bank, in agreement with the Federal Authorities, has chosen to
concentrate its efforts in key sectors and to channel its resources through
federal intermediaries. Thus, the Bank first supported two sectoral
projects (transport and housing) in metropolitan regions; the third was a
multi-sectoral project in several medium-sized cities. The proposed
project would draw on the experience of the previous projects and apply the
lessons to a large metropolitan region. The Bank is working with federal
institutions to introduce improved methods of analysis, an increased focus
on urban poverty, and better coordination between agencies. To reinforce



- 10 -
these institution-building objectives, Bank-financed urban projects in
Brazil have attempted to transfer as much as possible of the project
preparation, appraisal, and supervision responsibility to the federal
agencies responsible for the projects and to encourage the federal
agencies, where appropriate, to transfer this responsibility to local
agencies.
34.       To date, five urban projects have been financed by the Bank in
Brazil. The First Urban Transport Project was approved in June 1978, the
Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project in January 1979, the
Medium-Sized Cities Project in May 1979, the Second Urban Transport Project
(Porto Alegre Suburban Railway) in April 1980, and the Third Urban
Transport Project in May 1981. After initial start-up problems, experience
under the ongoing projects has been positive. Disbursements were slower
than expected in initial years of project implementation but are now
progressing well. The Bank has developed a good relationship with federal
and local urban institutions which have now acquired their own capability
in project appraisal and supervision. Targets for housing construction,
urban upgrading, and transport development are being achieved. New
technologies have been tested and acquired through the projects, as well as
new methodologies for spatial planning and investment design. Measures
have been taken in the proposed project to minimize possible start-up
delays with land acquisition, counterpart fund provisions, and quality
control of civil works.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by the Foundation for the
Development of the Metropolitan Region of Recife - FIDEM, with the assis-
tance and collaboration of the federal Subsecretariat for Urban Development
- SDU/MINTER, the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast -
SUDENE, the Planning Secretariat of the Pernambuco State Government, and
the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao. Bank missions closely followed
project preparation work. The project was appraised in October/November
1981 and negotiated in April, 1982. The Brazilian delegation to the
negotiation was led by Dr. R. Militao de Moraes of the Subsecretariat for
Urban Development of the Ministry of Interior.   A Staff Appraisal Report,
entitled "Recife Metropolitan Region Development Project" (No. 3863a-BR)
will be distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
The Northeast of Brazil
36.       The nine states of northeast Brazil had a population of about 35
million in 1980, or 29% of Brazil's population, after growing at a net rate
of 2.2% per year over the 1970-80 period. About half of the population
live in urban areas. Much of the region has a semi-arid climate and
periodic droughts have caused massive rural exodus towards the urban
centers, in particular Fortaleza, Recife, and Salvador. In spite of the
government's attempts to come to grips with the problems of the northeast,
it still is the poorest region of Brazil. The per capita income of the
northeast is estimated at about US$800 or about 40% of the national per



- 11 -
capita income; for some individual states per capita income might be as low
as 20% of the national average. In 1979, it was estimated that about 79%
of families earned the equivalent of two or less mininum wages per month,
including income in kind, only 21% had an adequate diet, 40% were literate,
40% had access to sanitation, and infant mortality reached 122 per 1000.
The Recife Metropolitan Region
37.       The Recife Metropolitan Region (RMR) is situated on the eastern
coast of the State of Pernambuco and formed by nine municipalities (see Map
IBRD 15941). The RMR occupies approximately 2,200 square kilometers which
corresponds to about 2.2% of the area of the State. With a population in
1980 of 2,348,332 inhabitants, the RMR accounts for 38.2% of the total
state population. Except for the period 1950-60, the population of the RMR
has been increasing at a diminishing rate: 1940-50 -- 48%; 1950-60 -- 50%;
1960-70 -- 46%; and 1970-80 - 31%, largely because of increased
out-of-state migration to the frontier areas and the increased provision of
jobs in Fortaleza and Salvador. The annual growth rate of the RMR (2.7%)
is low relative to the other Brazilian metropolitan regions: Belem (4.3%),
Belo Horizonte (4.7%), Curitiba (5.8%), Fortaleza (4.3%), Porto Alegre
(3.8%), Salvador (4.4%), and Sao Paulo (4.5%); only Rio de Janeiro (2.5%)
had a lower growth rate. Nonetheless, Recife continues to be an important
element in a system of metropolitan regions.
38.       In 1970, 33.5% of the residents of the Recife region were
migrants. This migratory pressure on Recife and its peripheral
municipalities, together with the natural growth of the RMR's labor force,
greatly surpassed the capacity of the labor market to absorb this
increase. The creation in 1959 of SUDENE and its incentives for
industrialization resulted in a relatively sophisticated industrial sector
with requirements for a qualified professional labor force, but little
opportunity for the majority of workers, who were for the most part
unskilled. The results of this mismatch between available labor force and
industrial job opportunities has led to a concentration in
commercial/service sector activities (82% of employment in 1978) and a
structural disequilibrium between the supply of and the demand for jobs.
39.       Recent census data show that the RMR has undergone significant
decentralization in recent decades. The percentage of the RMR population
in the municipality of Recife dropped from 64% in 1950 and 1960 to 59% in
1970 and 51% in 1980. The data on the distribution of employment show less
distinct decentralization trends. The percentage of manufacturing
employment in the municipality of Recife rose from 59% in 1950 to 63% in
1970; the percentage of commerce in Recife remained constant at 79%.
Although data are not available for 1980, field observations indicate that
manufacturing employment has continued to decentralize, particularly to
Paulista and Jaboatao, while commercial activities have remained
concentrated in Recife. In 1977, in the RMR, 45% of the active labor force
was earning less than one regional minimum salary, and 79% less than three
minimum salaries. The proportion earning less than one minimum salary in
the tertiary sector was twice as high as the secondary sector.



- 12 -
40.       Below standard housing in the RMR was estimated in 1970 to be
approximately 122,000 dwelling units or 37% of the total housing stock. Of
this percentage, 29% were slums, and 26% were situated in Recife. In 1978,
thirty-one large low-income settlements were identified within the RMR,
with an estimated population of 1,135,000.  In 1977, the residential
density per bedroom was greater than two in 49% of total RMR dwelling
units. The sewer network covered only 19% of dwelling units; 52% had only
rudimentary septic tanks; only 55% were linked to city water systems; and
only 45% had garbage collection. Electric lighting was the public service
that was most readily accessible, serving 83% of dwelling units. In the
RMR, 76% of total daily trips are made using public transport, 46% of which
terminate in or originate from the central area of Recife where private
automobile congestion diminishes the average bus speed to less than 8
km/h. In 1969, 56% of the child population in the RMR between the ages of
0 and 4 demonstrated varying degrees of malnutrition. In 1970, 38% of the
RMR total population could not read or write.
Institutional Framework
41.       Following the formal creation of the RMR in 1973, the state  of
Pernambuco in 1974 created the required Deliberative and Advisory
Councils. A year later, the state established FIDEM (Foundation for the
Development of the Metropolitan Region of Recife). FIDEM is responsible
for the following activities: (a) integrated planning for metropolitan
development; (b) programming and coordination of sectoral investments of
metropolitan interest; (c) coordination of the operations of the federal,
state and municipal governments in the RMR; (d) administrative moderniza-
tion of the weaker municipalities in the RMR; (e) execution of public works
and operation of public services of metropolitan interest; and (f) adminis-
trative support for the Advisory and Deliberative Councils.
42.       FIDEM operates as the metropolitan planning agency in a complex
planning and institutional framework. Nine municipalities and numerous
state companies are responsible for investments in the metropolitan
region.  The state companies establish investment programs and priorities
in a relatively independent manner, as do the municipalities. The
federally-oriented financing system for urban infrastructure adds further
complexity. The state companies and the municipalities generally negotiate
directly with federal agencies such as BNH and EBTU. In the absence of
legislation clearly establishing FIDEM's role and authority, it is largely
dependent on persuasion to obtain cooperation from the municipalities and
state companies.
43.       In 1976, FIDEM produced the Integrated Development Plan (PDI) for
the RMR. It was the first step towards a coordinated planning approach to
the metropolitan area. It contains a diagnosis of the RMR's deficiencies
and major problems, a statement of the recommended development policy,
sectoral strategies, programs, and priority projects. The PDI also estab-
lishes physical-spatial guidelines for urban development, and presents in
general terms sectoral programs and priorities. In addition, FIDEM
prepared, either internally or through sectoral agencies, sectoral develop-.
ment plans for transport, water supply, tourism, etc. FIDEM also prepared
a Territorial Organization Plan (POT), that details guidelines for the
physical-spatial organization of the metropolitan region. To preserve



- 13 -
water catchment areas and to promote balanced urban development, the POT
proposed that urban growth should occur largely in four nuclei (see Map
IBRD 15941): (a) Central, made up of the city of Recife and the coastal
areas of Olinda and Jaboatao; (b) Western, consisting of the crescent-
shaped urban area made up of the Jaboatao and Sao Lourenco da Mata and the
periphery of Recife; (c) Southern, made up by the city and industrial area
of Cabo and the future port and industrial area of Suape, and (d) Northern,
comprising the conurbation of small towns along the BR-101 highway between
Paulista and Igarassu. The POT stresses industrial development, with
supporting residential, commercial and service areas, in the northern and
southern nuclei; commercial and administrative activities, with the corre-
sponding residential support areas in the western nucleus; and some densif-
ication of the central nucleus.  The interstices (areas between the differ-
ent nuclei),are intended to be kept at relatively lower densities, foster-
ing the relative self-sufficiency of the nuclei.  The POT takes the recent
urban development process and attempts to channel and guide it, without
attempting radical changes. FIDEM then produced priority Public Investment
Plans (PIP) for 1976-79 and for 1980-83. The PIP proposes priority invest-
ments in: (a) support for productive activities; (b) housing and urban
development; (c) transportation; (d) environmental sanitation; and
(e) planning and administration. The proposals guide municipal, state, and
federal programs in the RMR.
44.       FIDEM relies heavily on the quality of its technical work to
convince other agencies to respect the metropolitan development plans.
Overall, the municipalities and state agencies respect FIDEM's technical
staff and their work. FIDEM is, however, aware that most of its work to
date has concentrated on macro-level physical planning. In the future, it
needs to concentrate more (a) on the translation of its existing plans into
detailed land-use recommendations and regulations and (b) on the integra-
tion of economic planning into the physical planning process.
Objectives of the Project
45.       The proposed project would include programs and priority invest-
ment designed to alleviate the problems of urban growth and poverty through
the more efficient and economic provision of infrastructure and services,
while simultaneously strengthening the process of metropolitan planning,
coordination, and administration. The project would focus on the RMR for
two main reasons: first, the RMR has one of the largest concentrations of
urban poor in the Northeast; second, the RMR has one of the most developed
metropolitan planning agencies in Brazil.
46.       The proposed project is designed to produce a balanced institu-
tional and spatial framework for the efficient and equitable provision of
urban infrastructure, the delivery of urban services, and increased incomes
particularly with respect to the urban poor.  It complements some of the
investments being made for improved housing and transport infrastructure
under the Bank-financed First Urban Transport and Sites and Services and
Water Supply projects. Although the project would only deal with one
metropolitan region, it would serve as a test to establish a modus operandi
for projects in other metropolitan regions. (An engineering loan for the
development of projects for the metropolitan regions of Salvador and
Fortaleza was appraised in February 1982.)



- 14 -
Urban Upgrading
47.       The subproject would provide for the upgrading of:  47 low-income
settlements or neighborhoods with a population of about 115,000 persons, by
the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao; and 9 neighborhoods with a popu-
lation of about 30,000, by the Housing Company of Pernambuco - COHAB. The
types of settlement vary from well-established areas to recent squatter
activity. All are characterized by poverty (at least 70% of families in
each neighborhood are in the Bank-defined poverty group) and by a lack of
all or most urban infrastructure and services. The areas are either very
steep, hilly areas or low-lying, swampy areas, subject to frequent flood-
ing.
48.       The design of the component has emphasized the use of low-cost
materials and technology to reduce costs, particularly in the areas of
drainage, paving, and sanitation, where successful experience exists in the
northeast, such as in Salvador. The interventions (landfill, drainage,
paving, stairways, water and sanitation) would depend on the specific needs
of each area. Community facilities to be provided include kindergartens,
creches, primary schools, health posts, and community centers with
recreation facilities.  All buildings will be simple structures constructed
using local building techniques and materials. The component would include
the legalization of tenure as necessary. Urbanized lots would be provided
within each site to accommodate people who would have to move to permit the
constuction of other facilities (roads, schools, etc.).  Designs have been
adjusted to keep relocations to a minimum and to ensure that people are not
moved away from the neighborhood. Finally, home improvement loans would be
made available to residents by COHAB, at a 1 to 5% rate of interest on
indexed capital depending on loan size, and a 3 to 30 year maturity at the
choice of the borrower, including a grace period to cover the period of
construction plus three months.
49.       The subproject would also include infrastructure complementary to
the upgrading investments described above and to the Capibaribe River
Valley Development Component (para. 55). These investments would include
macro-drainage, roads, micro-drainage, water supply, and recreation areas.
Metropolitan Infrastructure
50.       This subproject includes investments in the Northern, Western,
and Central nuclei. Although these investments are spatially distinct and
functionally independent, they are integrally coordinated in the sense that
each one of them supports the land-use plan and spatial structure proposed
in the metropolitan development plan: the central nucleus should be
consolidated through infilling on vacant land; the northern nucleus which
has already received some industrial infrastructure and housing requires an
adequate transport axis to structure further urban development; the
western nucleus already has some industry and housing and needs to develop
the commercial activities that will enable it to function as the RMR's
secondary commercial center serving the western part of Recife together
with Jaboatao and Sao Lourenco da Mata. The expansion of housing is also
required in the western nucleus together with industrial developments to
complement existing facilities.  The garbage collection and disposal
component would support the municipalities in their traditional collection



- 15 -
activities and to ensure for adequate disposal through the creation of a
metropolitan agency to be responsible for garbage disposal, together with
adequate facilities.
51.       BR-101 Metropolitan Corridor.  This component would consist of
upgrading this road to a metropolitan transport axis with four lanes for
mixed traffic, a separate right-of-way for buses, cycle paths, and, in the
built-up sections, parking and sidewalks.  It would provide assured access
by public and private transport and, thus, attract higher rates of urban
growth at higher densities to the northern nucleus of the RMR.  It would
also reduce expenditures on vehicle operating costs, travel times, road
maintenance and accidents.
52.       Curado Urban Center (CUC).  This component would provide the
urban infrastructure for the development of the commercial activities
necessary to complement the industrial and housing infrastructure already
implanted in the Curado area which is developing in the secondary urban
center of the RMR with a predominantly commercial vocation. The
development would cover about 110 ha. The center would include areas for
commercial development, small-scale industry, services, and warehousing,
park (using land unsuitable for building), and 2,000 dwellings units for
lower-middle income groups. The component would include only the urban
infrastructure for the center, i.e., earthmoving and site preparation,
drainage and road paving, water and sanitation networks, electricity
distribution, and telephone networks. The urbanized land would then be
sold to developers for the construction of the commercial buildings, to
private firms for the construction of factories and warehouses, and to the
state middle-income housing company (INOCOOP) for the construction of the
housing. This type of operation enables FIDEM to control the development
and ensure the desired layouts and mix of activities without the expense of
carrying out the total development. It was agreed at negotiations that:
(i) the relevant State and Municipal authorities will provide and finance
the necessary electricity and telephone installations, not only for CUC,
but also for the Jaboatao Industrial Park and the Capibaribe River Valley
Development (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.13(a) and (ii) FIDEM would
carry out a micro-zoning and marketing strategy study to ensure orderly
occupation of the site (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.13(b)).
53.       Curado IV Housing Development.  To complete the residential
development of the south quadrant around the Curado Urban Center, COHAB
would construct a low-income housing development of 4,500 dwelling units on
131 ha to serve a population of about 22,500 persons. This component will
assist in achieving the necessary balance of residential areas to work
areas. A main vehicular road would connect with the existing Curado II and
III developments and provide access across the BR-408 highway to the CUC
complex.   Secondary roads and stairways provide access to the residential
sectors and community facilities and a pedestrian network ties all the
housing areas to the community facilities and to a central commercial
zone. Community facilities, such as schools, parks, and comercial areas
would also be provided.  It was confirmed at negotiations that COHAB has
obtained BNH's approval of the site occupation plan.



- 16 -
54.       The Jaboatao Industrial Park.  Jaboatao is part of the western
nucleus of the RMR about four kilometers southwest of the CUC complex. It
is an industrial and service community with many small industries located
on small plots with inadequate facilities. This project would provide for
the construction of 28 industrial workshops in a mini-industrial estate one
kilometer southeast of the center of Jaboatao. The workshops would be sold
to interested firms. It was agreed at negotiations that the State will
ensure that the State Industrial Development Company - DIPER charges sales
prices that cover the full costs of land, all infrastructure, operation,
maintenance, and administration (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.12).
55.       Capibaribe River Development.  As a result of the major river
control and land reclamation effort undertaken by the National Department
of Sanitation Works (DNOS), about 236 ha of prime urban land along the
river have become available in the center of the metropolitan region. This
land is readily serviceable by the adjoining urban infrastructure net-
works. This component would incorporate the newly available area into the
urban network through orderly development for residential use and for
related facilities and services,and to integrate the new development with
the urban area on the other side of the river. The urbanized land would be
sold to the state low- and middle-income housing companies and to private
developers for the construction of the housing units. It was confirmed at
negotiations that the Municipality of Recife obtain from COHAB and the
state middle income housing company, INOCOOP, commitments to buy the
urbanized land for appropriate housing developments. Urban infrastructure
would be provided for 10,118 dwelling units for different income groups.
Part of the lowest income group units would be urbanized lots set aside for
the relocation of the 1,320 squatter families within the component area.
The remaining 116 ha would be developed for community facilities. Nine
park areas would be constructed including sport fields, landscaping, the
restoration of historical buildings, and a cycle path along the river bank
for transportation and recreational purposes. In addition, serviced areas
for sale to private entrepeneurs would be included to stimulate internal
commercial development in the area and to help defray costs. Infrastruc-
ture networks would also be included.
56.       The Garbage Collection and Disposal Component.  This component
would augment the garbage collection fleet by 280 vehicles to achieve 100%
primary and secondary collection and disposal. Neighborhood collection
stations with containers for depositing refuse would be installed,
especially in inaccessible poor areas. Equipment for street, land, and
storm drain cleaning would also be included. Garages and maintenance shops
would be provided in the five major municipalities. Two garbage transfer
stations would be provided in Olinda and Recife South. Two disposal sites
would be bought, equipped, and put into operation, including for the
production of biogas (methane), which would be sold, after 14 months, to
the adjacent industries who have already expressed their desire to use all
that could be generated in the immediate future. FIDEM would operate the
garbage collection system for two years (para. 70), thereby fulfilling one
of its principal role: that of stimulating the development of new
solutions to metropolitan problems in the absence of state or municipal
capacity or agencies designed to do the job.



- 17 -
Income Creation and Improvement
57.       Assistance to Micro-Enterprises Component.  There are about
120,000 micro-enterprises in the RMR. They have an average of four
workers; they tend to conduct their business at home or from home; they
produce goods and services for the poor that are in demand but they receive
no assistance from the formal sector; and they have little or no access to
formal credit sources. Yet evidence suggests that they can increase their
productivity with a small amount of assistance.  This component would
include (a) the expansion of the program of the Northeast Union of
Organizations of Small Businesses (Uniao Nordestina de Organicacoes de
Pequenos Negocios) for managerial and technical assistance to about 5,000
micro-entrepreneurs in the informal sector, including the creation as
appropriate of common service associations, the promotion of equipment
sharing and technology, and the provision of supervised credit (which would
not be financed under the Bank Loan) to about 4,400 enterprises; (b) the
establishment of "productivity centers" which would provide technical
assistance, training, equipment, and service associations to about 2,400
enterprises in Recife, and 1,000 self-employed producers in Jaboatao; (c)
the establishment and operation of labor exchange centers to provide
consumers with a large pool of tradesmen with an expanded market for their
services, and to assist unskilled workers with training and administrative
services. It was agreed at negotiations that the Government would ensure
the availability of credit to micro-enterprises (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05).
58.       Income Creation Based on the Exploitation of the RMR Natural
Resources. This component would include: (a) assistance to a fishing
cooperative - COOPESCAPE to improve its production and marketing for the
local low-cost fresh fish market; (b) establishment of a shrimp breeding
station with a demonstration farm to provide technical assistance and
supply shrimp larvae to local shrimpers and small shrimp farms; it would
ultimately be managed by a cooperative association of artisan shrimpers;
and (c) the development of tourist activities through the conservation and
remodelling of historic monuments in Iguarassu and Itamaraca, and the
construction of tourist facilities and infrastructure.
Institutional Development
59.       The institutional development subproject would improve the
efficiency of service delivery in the RMR through changes in standards,
procedures, and skills. The subproject would consist of:
(a) improved methods of project management, monitoring, and
evaluation to be used principally by FIDEM;
(b) measures to improve management and planning in the RMR, which
would be adopted by FIDEM and the RMR municipalities. They would include:
(i) an RMR information system, using a common cadastral base to update
information on the networks, services, and operations of RMR agencies; (ii)
a system for monitoring the levels and effectiveness of public service
provision in the RMR; (iii) a system for monitoring the plans and actions
of the RMR municipalities; (iv) a system for providing improved information
on health services in the RMR; (v) a detailed diagnosis of the RMR economy,



- 18 -
coupled with the development of methods to integrate economic variables
into FIDEM's planning process and improved methods for using economic data
as an aid to targeting income and employment creation efforts; (vi) a study
of the potential of the small farmer in the RMR; and (vii) a study of
methods for improving the level of participation in economic activities of
female heads of households. The three latter activities are aimed at
improving FIDEM's work on economic planning and on income and employment
creation. In addition, the component would include a longer range study of
the efficiency of agencies that are active now in the RMR.  It was agreed
at negotiations that by September 30, 1982, FIDEM would present to SUDENE
for approval a monitoring and evaluation program which would be submitted
by SUDENE to the Bank by October 31, 1982 (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.07).
(c) technical assistance to municipalities in the area of cadastral
operations (plus in the case of Recife, financial management), project
preparation, modern administrative techniques, and personnel development;
technical assistance to the executing agencies of upgrading components in
the execution of low-cost sanitation subcomponents and a pilot program in
the state sanitation company on the operation and maintenance of low-cost
sanitation measures; and development of human resources in the RMR through
the provision of short courses for 1,500 professionals (planners,
economists, engineers, controllers, managers, technicians, construction
foremen and inspectors, and administrators);
(d) improved coordination among the agencies presently involved in
the provision of urbanization, recreation and transport services,
environmental sanitation, solid waste management, plus a study of
mechanisms and procedures to improve interagency coordination in the longer
term;
(e) improved community participation in the delivery of urban
services, including: (i) the development of a master plan and execution of
priority actions; (ii) a program to improve access by beneficiaries to
public service agencies; and (iii) a program of support and training for
community development efforts of local community action groups; and
(f) a group of specialists to investigate potential organizational
systems for the administration and financial management of the RMR,
including the role of FIDEM, the development of formal RMR management
authority and legislation, the possible development of metropolitan revenue
sources, and mechanisms for ensuring coordinated planning and execution of
metropolitan investments.
60.       A Health Education component would encourage the target
communities to follow good hygenic practices both within and outside the
household; and to promote acceptance of the low-cost technical solutions.
The health education program would complement the provision of water and
sanitation facilities under other components which by itself is
insufficient to improve health conditions. Field workers would use
interpersonal education and community promotion methods to teach improved
practices to a population of more than 100,000. The field workers would be
supported by a small administrative staff in each executing agency and also
in the State Health Secretariat. In addition, there would be a mass media



- 19 -
campaign covering the whole RMR, to underscore the proper use of garbage
collection facilities and the dangers of contaminating drainage channels
with garbage. The diffusion of information would comprise four annual
seminars for sanitation professionals and the production of audio-visual
materials.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
61.       The total estimated cost of the project, including contingencies,
is US$348 million, of which US$83.5 million (24%) would be foreign exchange
(almost entirely indirect). Taxes are negligible. Cost estimates were
based on September 1981 prices. Cost estimates were based on final designs
for the Jaboatao upgrading component and the first phase of earthmoving for
the CRV-Development component, on advanced preliminary designs for the road
BR-101, the garbage collection and disposal, and the first phase of the
Recife upgrading component, and on preliminary designs for all other
components, with the exception of the later phases of the Recife Upgrading
and CRV-Development components, which are based on extrapolations from the
first phases. Physical contingencies ranging from 10% to 25% have been
included, depending on the level of design, the experience of the agency,
and the difficulty of estimating costs for the specific subcomponent.
Price contingencies are based on best estimates of the rate of inflation as
measured by the Brazilian general price index, plus a 3% allowance to
reflect the higher rate of increase of civil works prices. The project
would provide about 420 man-months of consulting services (mainly local) at
an average cost estimated at US$7,250 per man-month (including travel,
subsistence, and overhead).
62.       The proposed loan of US$123.9 million, which includes US$1.8
million for the capitalized front-end fee assessed by the Bank, would
finance a Bank contribution of 35% of project costs which covers the
foreign exchange component (24%), and some local expenditure (11%). The
financing of local expenditure is required to establish a meaningful Bank
presence in this project which, while having a high poverty impact (60%)
has a low foreign exchange component. Retroactive financing of up to
US$3.0 million for civil works, and US$7.0 million for technical assistance
and consultant services would be available to cover eligible expenditures
incurred after December 1, 1981. This amount of retroactive financing
would make it possible to start the execution of the project components for
which final designs are ready, and to continue with the preparation of
final designs for other components. This would maintain the momentum
acquired during project preparation and appraisal. Counterpart funds would
be distributed as follows: 15% from the federal government through
SDU/MINTER, and 50% from local agencies, of which 10% would be from
municipalities, 10% from the State of Pernambuco, and 30% from state and
municipal borrowings from BNH. The relative contributions for individual
components would vary while maintaining the overall ratios. It was agreed
at negotiations that in April of each year, from 1982 to the year prior to
the one in which the project would be completed, SG/MINTER, SUDENE, the
State, FIDEM, Recife and Jaboatao would review with the Bank progress in
the previous 12 months and the revisions that may be necessary to the
financing plan, such revisions to be used in the budget preparation process
of all executing entities (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.06). The appraisal mission verified that



- 20 -
provisions for federal, state, and municipal counterpart funds had been
made in the appropriate 1982 budget proposals. Formal confirmation that
the approved budgets contain the required funds was confirmed at
negotiations. At negotiations, the federal government agreed to ensure
that counterpart funds as well as all facilities, services, and other
resources required for the project would be provided in a timely manner
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)).
Procurement
63.       A total of approximately US$200 million of civil works, and about
US$25 million worth of goods, would be procured under the project. Between
500 and 600 contracts for civil works are expected to be let, ranging in
value from about US$2 million (for landfill) to about US$30,000 (for a
community center in a poor area), with the majority of contracts falling in
the lower part of the range. The phasing of implementation, the number of
executing agencies, and the spread of works over different locations
preclude the grouping of contracts into larger packages. Experience with
other Bank-financed projects in Brazil has shown that foreign firms are
unlikely to be interested in bidding for contracts worth less than about
US$4 million. Accordingly, all civil works contracts would be procured
using local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, which
permit the participation of foreign firms. Subject to the Bank's prior
approval, minor works would be carried out by force account or by
established community groups directly contracted by the executing
agencies. The total value of such works is not expected to exceed US$30
million (or 15% of the value of civil works). Contracts for vehicles and
equipment for biogas production, treatment and distribution (about US$17
million) would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Other
goods, equipment, and vehicles contracts would be procured under local
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would be
permitted to participate. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin
of preference of 15% or the import duty whichever is lower.
Disbursements
64.       Bank loan funds would be disbursed to cover 100% of consultant
services (including final designs, supervision, technical assistance, and
studies) and 27% of all civil works contracts. For the disbursements of
the Bank loan, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with
an initial deposit of US$8.0 million, which is the estimated Bank's share
of project expenditures for a three-months period (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02(c)-(g)). Disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure submitted by SDU/MINTER certifying disbursements by executing
agencies for civil works and consulting services and discriminating the
component involved, the relevant contract, the location of the works or
services, and the amount disbursed. Detailed documentation supporting the
statements of expenditure (including contracts, supervision reports,
certification of work completed, and disbursements by FIDEM) would be kept
by FIDEM, for review by Bank supervision missions. SDU/MINTER has
demonstrated its capacity to operate such a system under the Medium-Sized
Cities Project.



- 21-
Accounts and Audits
65.       It was agreed at negotiations (a) that each executing agency
(paras. 66-67) would maintain a project account, separate from its usual
accounts, and would make them available on request to the General
Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior (SG/MINTER), (b) that FIDEM would
maintain a consolidated project account, (c) that SG/MINTER would arrange
for annual audits of the separate project accounts and the consolidated
project account by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, (d) that
SG/MINTER would submit such audits to the Bank not more than six months
after the close of each fiscal year, and (e) that not later than four
months after the end of their fiscal year, the Central Bank would provide
to the Bank the results of an audit of the Special Account carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.  In addition, the auditors
would examine the statements of expenditure submitted with disbursement
applications and would verify and certify that they are supported by
adequate documentation and reflect properly incurred expenditure for
legitimate project purposes (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 4.02 and 4.03
and draft Project Agreement, Sections 4.01 and 4.02).
Project Implementation
66.       The management system for this project involves four levels,
corresponding to the different levels of responsibility for project
execution. The first level comprises the responsibility for overall
project execution and quality control. This is a federal government
responsibility and will be exercised by SUDENE acting as the agent of
SDU/MINTER, by whom this responsibility has been formally delegated by
ministerial declaration. The second level comprises the direct management
responsibility for the project, including ensuring that timetables and
budgets are adhered to, that designs and contracts are produced, and that
works and programs are executed satisfactorily; this will be carried out by
FIDEM. The third level comprises the responsibility for organizing the
execution of works and programs; this will be carried out by the executing
entities. The fourth level comprises the responsibility for executing
specialized works; this will be carried out by specialized private or
public companies or agencies such as consulting firms, contractors, public
utilities, or even municipalities.
Assessment of the Agencies
67.       SUDENE's responsibilities under this project would be carried out
by the Coordenacao de Desenvolvimento Urbano (CDU). CDU has a team of 13
professionals that has been working on this project since the early stages
of preparation. This team has followed the development of the project and
is fully acquainted with the components, the executing agencies.  It is,
therefore, in an excellent position to carry out its general coordination
and administration roles.  The CDU team can also count on the support of
SUDENE's engineering group. SUDENE's income creation group is less
strong. The CDU team will, therefore, obtain specific professional advice
from the federal sectoral agencies, CEBRAE (Centro Brasileiro de Apoio a
Pequena e Media Empresa) and SUDEPE (Superintendencia para o



- 22 -
Desenvolvimento da Pesca). Signed convenios (contracts) assuring the
availability of these latter services were presented to the Bank at
negotiations.
68.       FIDEM has adequate experience in managing the execution of
projects, funded by the state, and by the Bank. During the execution of
the Recife Subproject of the First Urban Transport Project, FIDEM has
developed from a very passive coordinator to an active and effective
project manager, and has adapted its systems when necessary.  FIDEM has
not, however, managed a project of this size before. Therefore, the
coordination system has been developed in a detailed and formal way to
provide a clear structure within which FIDEM can work.  FIDEM is competent
to carry out tasks assigned to it. The proposed project management system
uses FIDEM's existing capacity in combination with new special
arrangements. There will be a General Project Coordinator, who will report
directly to the Superintendent, and an Assistant Project Coordinator. They
will obtain support on physical programming and budgeting from FIDEM's
Financial Management Department of the FUNDERM (Departamento de Gerencia
Financeira do FUNDERM), on legal matters from the legal group attached to
the Superintendent's cabinet, and on administrative matters from FIDEM'S
Administrative Support Unit (Unidade de Apoio Administrativo). A competent
General Coordinator has been designated. Under the General Coordinator,
there will be three Sectoral Coordinators, dealing with Infrastructure,
Income Creation, and Institutional Development. Each Sectoral Coordinator
will be supported by a team drawn from FIDEM's technical units. Overall,
the system represents a small management and coordination overlay on the
existing managerial and operational structure of FIDEM. This is expected
to result in fewer problems and disruption in the project start-up phase
and to provide more permanent improvements in FIDEM's operations as a
result of the project.
69.       Although there are several executing agencies in this project,
none of them would undertake activities that are completely new to them.
The basic work on the project would be done by the normal operating units
of the executing agency, coordinated by a small management group.  It is
believed that this is the best way to integrate the components into the
executing agency, and to ensure the support and cooperation of middle and
lower-level staff. In all cases, the legal and organizational structure of
the agencies is adequate to permit them to carry out their tasks. All have
adequate experience in the type of operation that they would have to carry
out and all have adequate upper-level management. It was confirmed at
negotiations that the State and the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao
will, in cooperation with FIDEM, establish and/or maintain management and
coordination systems adequate to ensure effective performance (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
70.       Since it is considered risky to hand over the RMR garbage col-
lection and collection service to a completely new agency (programmed to be
a company owned by the State and the RMR municipalities), FIDEM (which
prepared the project through its Urban Sanitation Division (Divisao de
Limpeza Urbana) would operate the system in its initial phase under an
appropriate agreement with RMR municipalities. It was agreed at
negotiations that, (a) to assist in the execution of the garbagedisposal
subcomponent, FIDEM would, by October 31, 1982, hire consultants with
experience in the management of biogas producing land fill sites (draft



- 23 -
Project Agreement, Section 2.10(c), (b) within one year from loan signing,
FIDEM would obtain the Bank's approval of the detailed structure of the new
company (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.10 (b)), and (c) within two
years of loan signing, the state would create the company and transfer
responsibility from FIDEM to the company (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.11).
Financial Analysis
71.       COHAB.  The state housing company of Pernambuco-COHAB ranks first
among Brazil's low-cost housing companies in terms of number of units
completed or in preparation and construction.  Although it is an
independent state company, its procedures, fees and spreads are set by BNH
and have been insufficient to cover COHAB's expenses.  After showing a
marginal profit in 1978, COHAB incurred heavy losses in 1979-80. The loss
for 1981 is expected to be equivalent to 27% of its net worth. BNH allows
a nominal 2% of estimated costs for housing project design and 4% for
supervision, and a flat 10 UPC (about US$100) per unit for poor area
upgrading (PROMORAR) projects. Off-site infrastructure executed by other
agencies are excluded from COHAB's earning base, in spite of their high
management cost. The interest spread of 1.5% on COHAB's average portfolio
is low, although common with other Brazilian low-income housing companies.
COHAB's general and administration expenses -- 3.5% of total assets -- are
high compared with other COHABs. At the end of 1980, 66% of COHAB's assets
consisted of land held for development, work in progress and infrastructure
built on behalf of sector agencies and municipalities. Mortgage loans
accounted for 23% of assets. Current assets (3.4% of assets) included
Cr$177 million in overdue mortgage payments. About 20% of COHAB's
beneficiaries do not pay within 90 days of the due date; this is in line
with national averages. The principal source of financing for COHAB's
activities is long-term borrowing from BNH, which accounted for 90% of
total liabilities and equity at the end of 1980. Excessive reliance on
debt (equity contributed only 2% of total capitalization in 1980) has
compounded the problems arising from COHAB's poor operating performance.
Losses have offset 50% of the equity contributed by the state government in
1978-80. Current asset growth has been financed by debt and stretching out
payments to suppliers. During the project implementation period (1982-85),
COHAB expects to invest US$201.9 million equivalent, largely financed by
BNH.  It was agreed at negotiations that the State of Pernambuco would: (a)
make capital contributions to COHAB of US$2.0 million equivalent in 1982,
and US$1.0 million equivalent in 1983 and in 1984; (b) ensure that OOHAB
would maintain a current ratio of no less than 1.5:1; (c) establish a
coordination system among state agencies to ensure the timely provision of
infrastructure to COHAB projects; and (d) cause COHAB to devise and
implement a program to improve collections and to ensure that personnel and
general administrative expenses do not exceed 2% of COHAB's total assets
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03).
72.       The Municipality of Recife's receipts and expenditure for 1981
and budget for 1982 show that approximately 40% of current receipts come as
transfers from the state. In the municipal tax category, about 60% of
receipts come from the service tax and the remainder from property taxes.
The current expenditure of the municipality are 85-90% of current revenues.
To finance its share of capital costs under the project, the municipality



- 24 -
would borrow Cr$12,940 million from BNH at 1% interest on indexed capital
over 30 years with one-year grace period.  Given the time distribution of
borrowing and the resultant repayments, the maximum repayment would repre-
sent 6% of the municipality's 1981 budget; without reducing other expendi-
ture categories, this means that a 6% real increase in municipal revenues
would be required by 1986. Given the municipality's increasing administra-
tive capability at raising revenues, the municipality should have no diffi-
culty in servicing the marginal debt that would result from the project.
73.       Investigations made by the Municipality of Recife indicate that
project investments would generally reduce municipal recurrent expendi-
tures, e.g., by 43% the maintenance of clogged streams, unpaved roads, and
hillsides subject to erosion. In the Capibaribe River Valley, new annual
expenditure of Cr$16 million (less than US$200,000 per annum) would be
required by 1985 -- an 8% increase over 1982 expenditure by Recife for
these items, but it would be more than offset by the new property taxes
that would be collected on 10,000 dwelling units. Additional operation and
maintenance demands created by water and sanitation subcomponents would be
balanced by corresponding increases in tariff revenue. The largest element
of operation and maintenance costs would be for community facilities --
about Cr$156 million per annum from 1985 onwards.  This would be equivalent
to 7% of 1982 municipal expenditure on these categories. Given the size of
the project and its importance to the municipality, the required increases
in operation and maintenance expenditure are relatively modest and should
be easily absorbed by the municipality.  It was confirmed at negotiations
that the State and the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao would make
adequate provision for operation and maintenance expenses in respect of
project facilities and FIDEM would, by March 31 of each year, prepare a
report for the Bank containing and assessment of the adequacy of the
operation and maintenance expenditures (draft Project Agreement, Sections
2.01(d) and 2.08).
74.       In conclusion, the Municipality of Recife is competent to carry
out the financial obligations associated with the project.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
75.       The level of direct cost recovery for components other than the
institutional development components will average 78%, in line with normal
practice in Brazil. There will be no direct cost recovery for the BR-101
road investments, since this type of investment is financed by indirect
road user charges. Cost recovery measures include sales of developed lands
to housing companies and industries, the former including an element of
cross-subsidization to the sale of lower income housing; and direct charges
or taxes for the provision of new services. Additional costs will be
recovered indirectly, through property and income taxes, and through the
gasoline tax for the road investment. Costs were checked against market
prices and current expenditure levels of beneficiaries, and were found to
be affordable to the target group for each component.
Benefits and Justification
76.       The economy of the Metropolitan Region is expected to be stimu-
lated by the effects both of the increases in the incomes of the 30,000



- 25 -
individuals associated with income creation components and, to a certain
extent, of the construction expenditure resulting from the project.  A
large proportion of the beneficiaries of the income creation components are
poor and much of the upgrading will be carried out using labor from the
upgrading areas.  Thus, since the poor tend to spend a high proportion of
their income in their local neighborhoods, the multiplier effects would be
concentrated in poor areas. The region as a whole and its economy in
particular will benefit also from increased efficiency and reduced
transactions costs such as lower transport costs, and improved health
conditions, all of which should contribute to increased productivity. The
effective planning of location and density would tend to reduce the costs
of providing future infrastructure. The nucleated regional structure is
expected to induce more local trips and fewer trips to the center of
Recife, thus reducing the need for highly expensive central city transport
investments. Similarly, providing expanded water and sewer networks would
be less costly in planned peripheral developments where lower cost
technologies can be used than in densely built-up areas requiring expensive
renovations and expansions of networks. The improved coordination of
provision of infrastructure would further reduce the delays, costs, and
financial burdens that result from a lack of coordination. Finally, the
region would benefit from increased levels of efficiency and productivity
in the RMR agencies themselves through the Institutional Development
Subproject and through the necessity for the agencies to work together and
coordinate activities.
77.       The overall economic rate of return for project components
representing 95% of total project costs has been estimated at 21%. The
average rates of return are 18% for the housing and residential infrastruc-
ture components, and 23% for the garbage and transport infrastructure com-
ponents. The price differential between the current site and the upgrade
site has been used as the main measure of benefits for the upgrading and
infrastructure components. In some cases, additional benefits were estim-
ated from savings in maintenance on service costs. Sixty percent of the
project benefits, produced by 44% of project costs will accrue to the
poor. The poverty impact of some components, such as the upgrading and
income creation components which aim almost exclusively at the urban poor
and small businesses and self-employed entrepreneurs, is virtually 100%.
Risks
78.       The project involves limited risks to project execution.  The
executing capacity of each agency was carefully assessed, and implementa-
tion schedules were checked in detail and adjusted to reflect local capa-
city. Furthermore, although the objectives of the project components are
interdependent, their physical execution is not; failure of one executing
agency to perform its responsibilities would not affect the project's
remaining benefits. The change in state and municipal governments likely
to result in March 1983 following the November 1982 elections may
temporarily affect the rate of project execution in 1983. The consensus of
all federal and local technical agencies on the approach and investments
recommended for the metropolitan region, and the continuity in project
management that will be provided by FIDEM and SUDENE make these risks
acceptable.



- 26 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between SUDENE, the State
of Pernambuco, FIDEM, the Municipality of Recife, the Municipality of
Jaboatao, and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distrib-
uted to the Executive Directors separately.
80.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
the Annex III. Disbursements for any component would be conditioned to the
signing of a convenio acceptable to the Bank between FIDEM and an Executing
Agency. Disbursements for (a) the provision of garbage collection equip-
ment for any muncipality would be conditioned to the start of a program by
the municipality that would ensure that revenues from solid waste manage-
ment would cover the full costs of operation, maintenance, andvehicle
replacement; and (b) for the garbage disposal component would be condi-
tioned to the signing of a convenio between FIDEM and the municipalities of
the RMR establishing the operational and financial procedures for the
establishment of a garbage disposal company. Disbursements for any of the
institutional development components, except for project management, would
be conditioned to Bank acceptance of the final work programs. Disburse-
ments for the first phase of the Recife Urban Upgrading and of CRV-
development, and for the CUC, Curado IV Housing development, for the first
biogas plant, and for the first three employment creation components would
be conditioned on Bank approval of the final designs. The signing of a
convenio between SUDENE and FIDEM would be a condition of effectiveness.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
May 12, 1932
Washington, D.C.



- -  227  -                                            ANNEX I
Page I Of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHIED AVE   GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            8512.0                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGKlLULIURAL    2077.2                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CAR1BBEAN             EUROPE
uNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   320.0        570.0    1780.0 *                  1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILUJGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     392.1        565.0    1061.5                    1324.1                     2368.4
POPULAIOUN AND VIIAL STATISTILS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0       95322.0  116539.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 46.1          55.9       64.1                     64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2U00  (MILLIONS)                       176.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          281.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2075
PUPULATION DENSITY
PLR SQ. K1M.                         8.4        11.2       13.7                     34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       44.1        50.5       55.1                     94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRIUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YIS.                          43.6         42.7       41.5                     40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                          53.8         54.3       55.1                     55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6         3.0        3.4                      4.0                        8.3
POYULATIUN GRUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0         2.9        2.2                      2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                5.5         4.8        3.8                      3.7                        3.1
LRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.5        37.0       29.4                      31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THUUSAND)       12.9        10.5        8.7                       8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          2.6       2.0                       2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       111.0      203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.6
FOOD ANiD NUTRITION
INDEX oF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0      114.0                    108.3                     i19.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT oF
REQUIREMENTS)                   101.0        104.0      107.2                    107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           61.0         62.0       62.7                     65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        34.0         34.0       35.1                     34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       17.3        12.0        8.3                       7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT B1RTH (YEARS)    54.7          59.1       62.7                     64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            128.0          ..       92.0                     70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
ToTAL                                 ..        56.3       77.1                     65. 7
URBAN                                ..         77.7       88.8                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..        29.0       56.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                 ..        59.9       64.8                     59.9
URBAN                                 ..        86.1       83.7                     75.7
RURAL                                ..         26.5       31.7                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2561.2       2123.8    1700.0                    1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2772.1      2992.3         ..                   1288.2                      896.6
POPULATIoN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             307.0        269.0      247.7                    471.2                      262.3
URBAN                             325.6        322.6         ..                    558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        18.0         ..                        *-                      18.2
HOUSINNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.1         4.8        4.9
URBAN                                 ..         4.6        4.7
RURAL                                 ..         5.2        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         1.1
URBAN                                 ..         1.0
RURAL                                 ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TIUTAL                              38.7        47.6       63.0
URBAN                                 ..        75.6       84.9
RURAL                                 ..         8.4       19.2



-28                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AYERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCCKE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    IATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
EDUCATIQN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 95.0        125.0       88.0/c                   101.7                      105.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0       87.07E                   103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                93.0        125.0       88.07w                   101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         26.0       24.0/c                    35.3                       66.3
MALE                  11.0         26.0       22.07r                    34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                10.0         26.0       26.o07T                   35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  19.0            17.0      47.0/c,d                  30.1                        28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         28.0       22.0/e                    29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           13.0          13.0      13.07d                    15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          61.0         66.2       75.7                     80.0                        75.4
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         24.4       53.6                      42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPLLATION                          66.4        123.8      155.0                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          16.8         64.0       97.9                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0          37.0      45.2                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0             1.9        1.9                      3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22869.1        30078.5   36718.3
FE2ALE (PERCENT)                    17.5         20.4       22.6                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9         45.6       39.8                      35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8         18.3       21.8                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  32.0        31.6       31.5                      31.8                       42.3
MALE                                   52.7         50.3      48.9                      49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                 11.2         12.8      14.2                      14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.4        1.4                       1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0           63.5       62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8            3.2        2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8            9.0        9.4
POVERTY TANGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           .
RURAL                                  ..          ..      150.0                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      465.0                     513.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      332.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                  ..          ..         ..                        ..                         .
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTE S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Ls not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwlse noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Begifning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comsparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
1981 World Atlas are US$2,050 (at 1978-80 prices) and 119 billion.
April 14, 1982



29  -                                                                          NNEXI
Mpw_  of 5
DEFINITIONS SF SOCIA IJICATOILS
Kotee   Although the dat  ar  dtn Ptc fer  source. geneall  lodged the men  -et itotive 1 en  reIble  it ehod  leo he noted then they my eon be  onr
netietnlly  compereblo because ot the lack tf eroodedle   deiiiosed- ocpe  odb  difitn   eacies in I tollttig  the dote.  The date ete,noe
theles,usfu  to decihoodr  ofagoitede, ladce                     . esde, end  h.tbaecniee rer-La  -J.r dtff-nne  heb ne  coiati.
The~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~p: ieec   eoeae()rt    esootygcpo  h  aeltn coutr  ned (2) 0  oor   ..oop itch eo hthige..  -ceeg  tn__  then the c-ntr  greo
of heso len  ooety(aoet fe    optel totp lo  Oil Knpotets  troop eere "Middle leoin  Mcomb Afica. no  audlo  Mteen  Is ohaa   becs  of seroege
sortccultuel ofiolnis).1I  th  ifrec  poop dete theI... erges Ite pepeltie  weighted etntcnon   o                     .ah indicent.  an  chir  ely W-e
maJority of the cocTitie  It eIgtoop hoe dote for thot iudtan..t.  Sinc  the  corg  nicunresae  the indicators dependso  rho cmeilability of dtne
Luon AREA )thuae..d                                                                                          I.h.  chnc   a  OpI.a  bed91  -  tonl. uthe", cO rura  - Populattoi (otl
Tntel - Totl              -rfcsra cpisiug lend eo-  end teland notate,                          ue, ed corel)'dvide   yttereonc   tito   optlh
Agi Etrl-te :tstso  egIcutuca  Iren used re_po..e.ily oT pamnel                         eelheI  pbi   n  pieegnra   n   pcilsdhsitladfs
for  rope  posure, nolet  nd  itchen gerden  o Ito .Ie fellow; 1978 dote.             hobil iteto   anes-Sstel   t  naelid               n         hsrme itenl  ete d
itNP FER CAPTtl  (ItS) - GIMP.pe  ce pita  Isiet.e  cura t rht prics ...e.l-                      dilcresnoItldd                   tm  hepnls   oesetnIdshet
cuiete  by se  ccessi           h ttd es World hoch Ailee (1977-79 hosia); t96t,                en   eielcnee  o   emtenlitef. bI                        hyiledbtb
ENERGIY CONSUMtPTION PtER CAPITA -  uulctupito   csril  nry)clrclproe   ce   heite1fs i                                                  tolud  iMne prifip,/gece  heepteb    s
eod ligtine, petrcioun, roturlgeedhdr-                 la   n  ge"hoIlalc-en   url  osial  iedo  torI   hspdtlaen  msdicetl. enF.tt,
ryicity) In khlcgton  of colquvln pecai;lhI19,so179ett.lsiid hoptl  eta incuded only_ndertend
dote.l!1i1 hP1   .i.';deissices pet Oete  e  -Tnlctr  fenei    it or diechrge
'OPU'ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                           f~~~~~~~tro  bosPitols divided by the eusbet of bed.P    'i..    d--
Total P.cuoto Mind-Yr           ...r lhucdo)-Aso  July i; 1960. 1970, eud197
dtote.    Aic(. c   ftta)-   99                                                           HUicetn   ino   oehl   oroepthueod      oo.ubn   n   oe 
enota crutoee; 1960. 1970, -rd 1979 deto,                                                  -Ithe    c   J houshol .to   sioistclt Iufcsa
tilllatiot Projeti-tocs                                      A.ce-190                     taaobro   eastarom-tt.ure.ndiel-Argen-
toa bopIcc  b   g  ndstuntiitoraii   n  ftiiitte                                   delne,rseriey   ielioenoud   o-proet  tonte   n
Projecicopccnncetetoc nrtulIty  etat   o'pt'ZIofthre  le-le-esun-                  noccuied  orte
it- If P cecoryorbrtllcoold   ith cony' it                     0 pneboneAceft iPact...:cP-l:.. (per                         - ofd   tllos  - bot.  ore. end coto..
Peot   edteeolf Icupecte_ryry aInfleu    t7.  er. Thei pare                                 Conreelon -p dwe-llgstt  _lcrctry            . colongqanree   etan
norers for fortil Ity rote elec have three levels assunitn~P- dclita it      c  irol u`rhen, and rurel Aweigeresecivly
fertiIty  oodlng to  oc.no level ..rd past fanily pletritg pet~forete
Stec: cud   r -,iny r- tenlco.    onofths  olon conhivetione ci sorray                   IIUCATION
end ferriluiy  trerde Err promeo~tiot                                             Adlel,   arlnctMne
the birh rents   oI t ht deth ten -od olso .                        .  .   .b.osrruee         stoleto  oi ges en the prtmety leve  aspnongse of ceepsotice
so Ie ocetet.   his  e ehinvd oly oterferilinrets delio  n~                        rimr7 shoo-agepoplatona;ndtellyictrdeschidrenage  61
th   elrm Th It i o   ti   a  tyouciteo,wet  echAeerdie                               eas11iodoe  fordifeen  lnglaofpr.tyedctin  for
of  ...e.r-plucr 'tIteltM cily.  The etetonory pFpulnion'insh    ens-bt  d cor.risn                             d fnvao  education enrolmenft so.y enceed lti.  fet.
eintncd or tieheeeo              rjce cborrtoretIr  of the ppniei.t io   so.  puilsaeh                                  ao  or  hov  th   ofle  school age.I--
Ic the yooc 2000, -td rho ree ft eolo  offetiit  rtehn  replac-.                               ...oer ..o  -. Itotl sole and f tso    - fcompte  aeabve   ecnd1
slt hodeoeohd                                                                                 eulyo-1i         o1  yaso  ege  rote Ppndton          : eoutsn  era  enoell
Par e-u.; he. - id-peu   Iouolo  r   vne  loee Th.l  err-rh) o                                locoti.  t iono Innlc  ioc        ofanIarIf  P-,'oeIdno III        ltii
-icce h.c;. 96.b 97.    c 1  199dcothluetrhio,dnutio,t  ehrprase  iih  prt  idpend-.
oy;1061  197jt1 cod1 1976 dc79.dPcl-ecerriot   eie.adsrodr -  Tote.  etoent  enolld I
populoioc Ac  irru Iur   oret  - IbilIrat0-14 Yearn), -ohckjS-ats (15-                      pri_-ory     'ti eo  ncodty "eel  diidd  by neer  ofl enchere in         d the
64yer, ccd retired (65 yture end over) no rerIentugecYf aid-yearpope-ycIttee-cd... levels
lotioo1; 1961,'1971, nod 1979 doro.                                                           A Poltcclitereidt rotepIrerceen..  -Plierat   adls(bet  ra   n           ie
PPooL,ioc ACntb . -oi        . peco   --tro  - Ooouol grwh rove  of toru1 nid-                  nAd  aereoege c         Cton   - edLt.roultio..I. aged 15 pered overi.)
peer populrot too1h0I         ,1917    o  190-79.
Porltic- f-othtam95r0 vt60ubo    A-Idtuu  oro-h raree of urben PoPo-                       CtONSUMPTION
loiroc     r 9d-0  1960-70. nod 1970-79.                                                     PseerCr   rttosc   uuoic       oene   asoats   ne
Crd  MIrth ta- (rot choue..d) - Aunuol livn   irthe Per thcueend of nid-y.n..ssatn   ls  thorsgtpros   nldeaoooe   ere   n
popule icoo; 1960, 1970, ood 1979d dte                                                        military rehiclos.                                              h....  ..
Crude cocc  Rtac  (reth ..ou.acd  - Aonuu1 detho Per ihou...nde of nid-Yeer                   nairi. heosicor  ma  huedttltoi-Oltpso   eevr   o   eh
poulcico; 1960, 1971, end 1979 dete.                                                        bRoed Resrr  geealpblcpe  honn  of ptr tenio- enloe  en-
nitiy voce  uoly tr-Year  --nocea  edign It T1960  1970,and19i7h.                           see  cutiesfabolishd.t  liten.-           t_   t        Ic
F-cily P .-i..    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~           pulcei lon  enteprailtoaodIut  enre  neniIc                       n  oeine
POlO AOl tIftItlIr                                   Iftc:d                      . ..n dailp" it inch eppot  oppaettuttie.owik
Ite    f,,Pood:Producionr    Cuit     -1b9h-1    - lthoden  dfpr  eitoorrue              CieoAeulAtednepe   ait   a    ee-oe   onhtheIufaTV                     cff
77Ior  dcltie   poo   gee       Scndt P.   coerprnryh.dnjg.-uereegndsoie  nie
cIld-- Fco d o -vcocge p po,e cpric  egi;16-5  17,ad17   oe                                 Ttal lboc.iy Pc fc ithoppands  - tr... traly ative. peeno  boud
Pe   tie  uoyofclre -  pei ont ofdct. peuuirn dntn  -.. Copre   ec      edffodcee erd.. unmloe  buC                    noItghuois,stdns   n.
per dup.  Avileble supline coepele dosoeticppoducrior  'itrn  lee            noitocerbin.160,197-eni199cdte
utitieuad!cIt -foo   rcntg   n   ceo dbnrihtit.  equre                                 Atick.itudte  (re tl - labop foc  din  aan,freny   utn   n
Ity Ird  healt Cco                diidori-e erioonu   eperotyute  body . ..l0ht ...tIe industr           ..icet.    ae   oc   nem,cttuto,muatr
i:cuhId  evlf1616,  97,an   97  dt.                                                           971nd199doe
vet npplyof fod pr do .ccet nupyorrof       e  ebo  us.t abov.   fe oiit   ae   oecmue  astta,sle   o  fml  lbrfoo
qurnctt     o  oi.ootie.ntbisa   by               . Iil   proid  for si pitn                pertgeofttl, 7- sole en            -ealec p hpoei-n o  altage  ase ncey
p dler prooic  ofn Io   1  r P    -oridbticolProd.toic.,Teesod                               elritg-nsrcueo  h   onit   n  long tie tree..A
evvlpoecO  o   vrg   o   h  crd   rpsdb  PAll inP1               ibe Ii   d  Thr        oool  ecer  not      Motto of  iouet' udr15ed6   doe
Acrid Bord torvey        .cc                                                                        Pc.; 1961-1   91eA17   et.t   b   ru   ao  f9ore
viedfootn Ic    Y e Ad p bce  in dIre  per I  doy;   i96-6 . 197  and107  dte.  INIS DaiIST0IOITIII.9ifcc;190  17  .d199d..
Chl  ann14   totlt   er(o  nrnn)-doe   enb   e  huodi                                PeI"Ion  ofPrvae iron botI  vent eiodf hind) f--    h-rivod hr  ied
eA   ro   -IPn,c   bide   rtinoeYop  for nolet :dfy nopig cot-                              1percent, richet  20-r pecrt,. poteni0prr.             .ed  oreg M       ecn
cpiet deco derived trot life  inhien; 1960, 1970 erd 1979 dnte.   g.         of                    It.bdueehp-de.
dIAdTh                                                                                 roiten 761-1-  fOrP      t
cbit;16.197  urd 1976             , dote,                                             nod1 shud  he7 loepoe  cborioo-ecuit
Inac  Mrtliy tat  (etp.i thou .rd  -I honue  deih  of.i inote- dc I    one yeart       tetiietod abslut  (PrvrvIcs   ee   19pecot-     urbe r                       Itoa-
ci age Per Ihoduyncod live            IfirtheI.eheo.--lute poery t oro 0-                                            l l  thr ico        d level blow  t fhich    ot
Arae oI= to  ater(cerent  f rIul hnub toUSA pctetied f eal - N-                               nutri-tfocel Ofdequate- diet p100 eneevttal  von-fon   ro.e.nt  to- net
he  o   eol (M oci, uref  nod rural)ith P-oneondoblec    Ifos  to       - ante96of f                 90ord7ed- T.ilotb.IdI   I; P.ti.i-c
Iefnuinota  fret  periete  horoliad  apb     g,ed  nett  e i)                        Outilrtincitepoverty.incom   eh. i  on-tid ofverge per tcepiteI
c      itdrd  ohl  rIt ... genrui   pccnof  ha   byone.    trotl eredeCn"' feInoedPrnltit eo                      Oherict Poten   Iocs  lte   6rtrct  - ob
Ciccodnoterec  Oiep-litR. oecrco  pruutottoo . u Pe..and ea... -dI                             ..t..I   t
g...e of peopl y tro, t c~ildt,  n  roi) nerve b"p  ecrt  di .pree  enid  ycih
en. d      .tnc-oe  h.d ooter-hlrf  apelreun ortcuPo   i   roe   o   Sl                                                      ocoi   rlonedPoeno                  lpreo
let iteneileciona.                                                                                                                      Mo0 199967 IO   d  S71d:l.  fh h.d.
porinto  cc PvoPOVERPTuYtur  ivdeAbyruEaTc pGctcOUPShce
cltthuiunorrcund6oer"ilotoleiutleeI
Ocouluc1irn cr luolnBot yconor  - Popugienin  divde  by. nub   ofIf protuingThf
eal97ofnme derad     79yv drec . prh'ctiociTyaonee,o-d-enItetert nurses.



30   -                                                                ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5-
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population         119.0 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Amount                    Average Annual Increase (x)                 Share of GDP at Market Prices (1)
Indicator                       (Million US$ Current)              (at Constant 1970 Prices)                         (at Current Prices)
1980              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1981-86          1970    1975    1979    1980 /b   1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                             248,200                7.7        10.6        6.9        6.0       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         100.0
Agriculture                                          23,365                1.9        5.7        4.7         5.2         8.2      8.7      9.4      9.4       9.4
Industry                                             71,590                9.2       11.6        7.6        5.9         29.1    32.6    31.8    28.8         31.8
Services                                            111,365                8.0       10.7        6.8        6.2         43.0    41.3    42.5    44.4         42.5
Consumption                                           201,040                7.7        9.8         5.7        5.7        76.9    78.6    79.8    80.5          76.3
Gross Investment                                       52,460                9.4       14.6         5.2        6.0        23.5    25.4    22.6    21.1          22.9
Exports of Goods and NFS                               21,305                8.2       11.2         7.3        8.2         6.6      7.4      8.2      8.6        9.7
imports of Goods and INFS                              26,575               14.5       17.2        2.8         5.9         7.0    11.4    10.6    10.7          8.9
Gross Domestic Savings                               47,160                7.9       12.9        6.1        -          23.1    21.4    20.2    19.5          23.7
Amo-nt                    Average Annual Increase (0)               Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(Million US$ Current)              (at Constant 1970 Prices)                         (at Current Prices)
1980              1965-70          1970-75          1975-80      1966        1970          1975        1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                   20,132                 7.8             11.9              5.8       100.0       100.0        100.0        100.0
Primary                                             11,092                 7.3              8.3              1.1       82.9        75.1          61.8        55.1
Manufactures                                         9,040                 7.9             28.2             18.2        17.1        24.9         38.2        44.9
Merchandise Import                                    22,961                10.0             17.6            -1.4        100.0       100.0        100.0        100.0
Food                                                 1,239                -3.8             -6.7             17.5        11.5         4.5          3.0         5.4
Petroleum                                           10,210                 9.3              7.6             4.3         14.7        11.2         24.5        44.5
Machinery and Equipsent                              4, 392               22.1             15.2            -7.5         15.2        21.2         14.0        19.1
Other                                                7,120                 8.3            28.4             -1.9        58.6         63.1         58.5        31.0
1975           1976           1977            1978            1979           1980
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 1i0)                                     305.1          444.3           632.7          892.5         1,399.4        2,724.6
Exchange Rate (CrS/USS)                                         8.1            10.6           14.1            18.1           26.9            53.5
Export Price Index (1970 = 100)                               176.0          192.0           226.0          228.0           266.0          290.0
import Price Index (1970 = 100)                               242.0          255.0           286.0          317.0           389.0          431.0
Terms of Trade Index (1970 = 100)                              72.0           75.0            79.0           72.0            68.0            67.0
As 2 of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970            1975              1979 /b
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                     16.6             19.8             20.8
Current Expenditure                                                                 14.4             15.8             17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                           2.2             4.0               3.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                  2.6              3.8              3.7
Financing (Net)                                                                     -0.4             0.2              -0.5
1965-70           1970-75            1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (2)                                                                 7.7               10.7                5.8
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (2)                                                      4.6                7.7                3.0
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (7.)                                                 7.2                7.3                6.5
ICOR                                                                                2.9                3.0                3.9
Marginal Savings Rate                                                              20.5               25.7              22.7
Import Elasticity                                                                   2.2                1.6               0.3
/a   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
/b   Preliminary Economic Mission scheduled for May 1982 wilL update the fiscal data.
May 5, 1982



- 31 -
ANNK0 i
0.60 5 of S
ALAi 0?F i         . 9UL CAPfUL AMO
Pop1.P o0od        119  lli0  (1980)
09p P-o C.pl..   USS2,050 (1980)
ACTUDL                                                                                         DiOJICTID
1975         1976         1J77         1J78          1979         1"6         1lJJ               1982         1983         1984         1995          1986
Golot.  of Paypsot.
N.t copoot. of goodd. od .-oi-.                                    -6,702       -6,018         6.037       -6,086      -10,039      -12,564      -11.173           (-8,770)    (-7,533)    (-5,735)    (-6,095)          (-979)
E pOt. of Sood.                                                   (6.670)    (10.128)    (12.120)    (12,659)    (15.266)    (20,132)    (23.293)                 (27.757)    (32.770)    (38,740)    (45.193)   (52.596)
Iqport  of Good.                                                 (12,210)    (12.383)    (12,023)    (13,663)    (18,084)    (22,955)    (22.080)                 (23.648)    (26.065)    (28.937)    (32.505)   (36,992)
ee ftoof -  Io_.                                                  -1,733       -2,189       -2.556       -3,257        -4,821       -6,621       -9,549            -9,697      -10,609      -11,397      -11,990    -11,153
(of ohioh 0t i--e00t pV.o-)                                   (-1,498)    (-1.810)    (-2.103)    (-2,696)    (-6185)    (-6,311)    (-9,179)                  (-7,365)    (-8,246)    (-9.020)    (-9,631)    -8,863
Y. t      f--     -i...                                          (-1.429)    (-1.574)    (-1 578)    (-1.805)    (-2,378)    (-3,120)    (-2.S37)                 (-3,192)      (3.628)    (-4 141)    (-4,744)   (-5,429)
ret t.0.0.0.                                                             2             1            -           71           18           168          197              197           197          197          197         197
Cureoot ofoout b loo.-                                              -6,700       -6,017       -4,037        -6,015      -10,021      -12,396      -10,976            -8,573       -7,336       -5,538        -3,898        -782
tlo-ci pri-te 1-00t-nt /b                                             892          959           910        1,071        1,491        1,125        1,569             1,716        2.026        2.306        2,628        2,9a0
8667T 1000.00 n*4,830                                                             5,542        5,650        10,018        5,297        3,475        9.571             8 996        8.307        6 981         5,970       5.252
Tooditio  alooorce                                                  (955)      (1,147)      (1,059)      (1,450)       (1.250)      (1.195)      (4,314)           (5.224)      (5.125)      (4,965)      (46986)    (4,314)
OiOOocO.1 o00000-                                                 (6.027)      (7,013)      (8,224)    (13,714)    (10,478)         (8,890)    (13,113)           (10,92)    (10,936)    (11,370)    (12,014)   (12,017)
A-00ti0000on                                                      (2,152)      (2.618)      (3,633)      (5.146)       (6,430)      (6,610)      (7,956)          (-7,190)    (-7,754)    (-9,354)   (-11,027)   (13,080)
Sr0200lnOooobrood Ioet)                                               -190         -248         -267          -357         -608         -616         -702                 -             -                         -           -
0the0 0.700:1 0ne1.i                                                   -62        1,829       -1,248          -418        1,059        6,732        1,304            -(,638       -2,186       -2,801       -3,549       -6,060
Ch60g0   (0  --.00000 (-(00-...) /0                                     1,230      -2,065          -908       -4,299        2,782         3,480         -766             -560          -806         -969       -1,154      -1,410
Interulor   R...-0.. /d                                              4,041        6,544         7,256       11,95        9,699        6,913        7,505             9,065        8,072        9,920        10,974      12,384
R-  ero..   -thon.h0 of                                                     4 pr00/e  6  6.3          7.2          3,9          6.4           2.8          4.1              3,3           3.3          3,2          3,2         3.2
1975         1976         1977         1978         19(9          1990         1991
E.t.r-ol D0bt
T0t.1 d1bt od000and1 -g .0d di0.bo.-d                               23,299       18,483       30,601        66,636       51,342       54,865    61,400 /f
Fbolft ,00 publ!.0y g-0-0.t0-0                                    13,706       17,349       21,595       30,284        35,470       38,260
0(9i000.I.0.                                                    3 959         4,431        4 717        5,401        5,889        6,416
IBRD                                                         (1,095)      (.1217)       (1,413)      (1,602)      (1.827)      (2.069)            _
Oth06                                                        (2,866)      (3,214)       (3,304)      (3,799)      (4,062)      (4,347)
Pr010t. .000_0                                                  9,747        12,919       16,.78       23,683       29,589       31,844
P00000. noo-g-oooot-od                                             9,592       11,133       13,005       16,152        15,864       16,605
Undi0.boo-d d0b0 (p.blic only)                                       3,879        6,620        8,411        10,209       12,448       14,041
100.. Di.bur.--nOO
T-00.  gro* d... ... boeeet  Of  LT I0.-0                            6,981        8.160        9,282        15,164       11,728       10,085
Public .ad pobUlcly gor-nfo-d                                      3,788        4,921        5,422       10,116        9,152         6,893
Offi.i.1 00p00t  -0dit..                                          428           405          169          *90          448           467
1I30                                                             250           173          298          275          302           343            _
0t06.   itilaOeoo-                                              119           113           92          136          200           192
f0i-.t0  000000                                                2,991        4,233         4,862        9,216        8,197        5,892
Pr    .Ooooo-60--00000d                                          3,194         3,239        3,861        5,048        2,576         3,192
D.bt S-L..c
T00.1 doO  .000  poyn-                                              4,1795       6,322        5,642        8,252)       131,147,     2,3,168 
00t00 t0 (009)                                                  (1, i6)          423       (1,651)      (2,457)      (3,555)       (5,412
P      t:  o 2 of 0090t0  -.01 0FS                                     39,6         3642          39,6         54,2         59 8         54,9
0.70.000 .. X of 0rP                                                    2,9          2,6           3.0          3.7          4.3          4. 
v0r.e 000.00000000 0t   06w        0 0 pbl0o 06bt (S) /)                 8,7           7 6          8,3          9,9         11,2         12.3           -
0081f 0.1 f ici 0l    0                                                 7.7          7,9           9.0          7 5          8.3          8 7
AOOO.6.  .000007 0f 000 60          0 10.t0- d 10..                        9,          11.3         10,0         10.0          11,5         10,3
9004o000000009 16.4                                                                 16.3          16,1         14,5         16.0         13            -
0000.0. *00000                                                          7,0          9.3          9a7           9,3         11,2          9.5
I BKD E tplo0
0000 OOD/roool                                                          6 7          4*3           4*1          3.4          3,6          3,8          -
I09D  di.bu--00  t./0t0l g".. di.bu.- -ooO. (2)                         3.5           2,1          3.2          1.8          2.6          3,4
16D d0b6  o.ooltoIo    debt ..-ric-  (                 S)               2,5          3.2           3.7          2.7          2,2          2.1          -
A. 2 of 000.1 d0b6 -t.o--di.o
*t end of D c.._be  1980      /6
00b0 St-I.euoo
i1turit, Otoot-uO. of  .6bt out-tdiug
lMt-0iti.  doe 01thi  5 ye.r                                                                   67
8     fturtti.0  du. 08th0   10 roar.                                                            33
I   E0ti t..
Ib  Eolodi.g O.-i--o.t0d p-fi t0.
/c   ocloddi.g doll.. v.-ti.n odjo..t-.t. .ed  oneOOe.on of do-ti  gold.
/d  00010di0S gold cd doll.   -elo-ti.o  .djo..to..
10  God.01.
/f  0000000 unevOl.bl.
/j  Publ:c d08  0oly,
S-ooo...   8.10-0  of  0y.0t. 0D-. - b.0o. C0.t00l do 80-i1l; 00t00-0l D0bt D00. - EPD
M., 3, 1982



32
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                   1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0           3.3
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          16.0
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5           7.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0           2.1
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          16.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          13.0
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          21.7
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           3.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          14.1
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             7.6
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads         55.0          32.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture          40.0           9.7
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power                50.0           0.8
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition            19.0           2.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply         40.0           0.1
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        83.0          59.6
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power                82.0          17.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0            10.5
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           52.0          11.7
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer           55.0           1.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education            32.0          22.7
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0            12.1
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage            110.0          75.9
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0            19.5
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power               130.0          64.9
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads               114.0          88.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals       85.0          14.1
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0            36.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0            76.5



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            28.5
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               65.9
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               85.7
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              78.8          11.5
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            23.7
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            61.5
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          84.9
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            35.2
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          18.6
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         100.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         115.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           155.8
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         120.1
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          30.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            61.3
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         124.7
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            53.0
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          52.6
1965    1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0         168.1
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.        250.0         250.0
2015    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0          29.0
2016    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           60.0          57.0
2060 /1 1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           67.0          67.0
2061 /1 1982  Brazil                           Health                13.0          13.0
2062 71 1982  Brazil                           Highways             240.0         240.0
2116 /1 /3 1982 Brazil                         Agriculture           26.4          26.4
Total                                               6,310.8 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  883.4
Total now outstanding                               5,427.4
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            45.3              0.5
Total now held by Bank                              5 426.9
Total undisbursed                                                 3,003.5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3   Not yet signed.



34                                                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 1l
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                                  Amacot in US$ million
Year                                               0 b 1 i g o r                                           Type of Bosineas                         Loans       Eqoity       Total
1957                      Siemens do Brasil Ci. do Electricidade                                       Electrical Equipment                            2.00          -         2.00
1958                      Olinkraft, S. A. Celuoise e Papel                                            Pulp and Paper                                  1.20          -         1.20
1958                      D. L. R. Planticos do Brasil, S. A.                                          Automotive Parts                                0.45          -         0.45
1958                      Willyn-Overland do Brasil, S. A. - Industria e Co=ercio                      Motor Vehicles                                  2.45          -         2.45
1959                      Companhia Minoira do Cineoto Portland, S. A.                                 Cemest                                          1.20          -         1.20
1959                      Champion Celolose, S. A.                                                     Pulp                                            4.00          -         4.00
1966/1968/1972            Acos Villares, S. A.                                                         Steel                                           8.00         1.93       9.93
1966/1969                 Papel a Celulose Cat-rinense, S. A.                                          Pulp and Paper                                  3.78         3.41       7.19
1967/1972                 Ultrafertil, S. A. - Indostria e Co=ercoo de Fertili-antes                   Fertilizers                                     8.22         3.03      11.25
1969                      Petroquinica Uniao, S. A.                                                    Petrochemicals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1970                      Poliolefinas, S. A. Iodustria e Comercio                                     Petrochemicals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1971                      Oxiteno, S. A. Iodustria e Comercio                                          Petrochenicals                                  4.60         1.44       6.04
1971                      Rio Grande - Co=panhia do Celolose do SVl                                    Pulp                                            4.90          -         4.90
1972/1975/1981            Corpanhia de Cineoto Nacanail de Minas                                       Ce=ent                                        169.14        6.70      175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981       Companhia Siderorgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                                 Steel                                          76.97       11.22       88.19
1973                      Capital Market Development FPnd - FUMCAP                                     Capital Market Development                      5.00          -         5.00
1973/1978                 E=prena de Desenvolvi=eoto de Recursos Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.    Nickel Mining and Refining                              85.00        8.34        93.34
1974                      Indostrias Villares, S. A.                                                   Elevators and Industrial Equipment              6.00         -          6.00
1974                      Fabrica do Tecido Tatuape, S. A.                                             Textiles                                       31.00         -         31.00
1975/1979                 Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                             Carbos Black                                    6.18        1.19        7.37
1975                      Omiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                                      Petrochemical.                                 10.00         -         10.00
1976                      Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                               Textiles                                        6.45        1.00        7.45
1976/1980                 Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                               Textiles                                       16.20         -         16.20
1977                      FMB S. A. Prodoctos Metalurgicos                                             Iron and Alanino= Castings                     20.00         -         20.00
1977                      Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                                 Mining                                         15.D0         -         15.00
1978                      Cimetal Sidarorgia S. A.                                                     Iron and Steel                                  7.00        3.00       10.00
1979                      Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicoles, S. A.                                    Motor Vehiclen                                 60.00        5.00      65.00
1980                      Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                                            Ready-made Garmeots                             2.00         -          2.00
1980                      Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Indostria
e Co=ercio de Oleaginosas                                                Pal=-Oil                                        3.50         1.00       4.50
1980                      Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                                   Iron and Steel                                  5.00         -          5.00
1980                      FFH - Conpanhia Industrial do Polipropileno                                  Chenicals and Petrochenica-l                   15.00        2.00       17.00
1980                      Dentilaria Cianorte S. A.                                                    Chemicals and Petroche=icals                     -          0.25       0.25
1980                      Sotave Aoazonia Quirica a Mineral S/A                                        Fertilizers                                    16.00        4.00      20.00
1980                      Poldisl Petroqai=ica                                                         Chemicals and Petroche=icals                   43.00        5.00      48.00
1981                      Brasilpar                                                                    Money and Capital Markets                        -          1.50       1.50
1981                      Companhia Brasileira de Agropecuaria - COBRAPE                               Food and Food Processing                        5.50        3.00       8.50
1981                      Trionfo                                                                      Che=icals and Petrochemicals                  46.00         4.00      50.00
1982                      Ci=eoto CAUE                                                                 Ce-ent and Constroctinn Materials             40.00         5.00      45.00
Total Grony Commitments                                                                                        741.74        77.77     819.51
Less tancellations, Ter=inations, Repayments and Sales                                                         534.19        12.02     546.21
Total Cmorit=ents Now Held by IPC                                                                              207.55        65.75     273.30
Total Undinbhrsed                                                                                              219.01        21.47     240.48



- 35
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1982 1/
As of March 31, 1982, there were 54 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981.
A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating or just completed. Progress in
implementation of the enlarged project is satisfactory.  Overall costs
are within reviewed estimates. A local project completion team should
send a draft PCR to the Bank for comments by September 1982.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed and no further disbursements will
be made. About US$1.0 million is being cancelled. A project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-  36  -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) suffered delays because of financial constraints imposed
by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds for 1981
have been provided recently and works have been reactivated. The
weighing station program is being reformulated; the closing date
will have to be extended further to allow completion of the works.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Due to lack of funds in 1981 and further
constraints on 1982 spending, project completion is now scheduled
for November 1983. The company's financial position is inadequate
with a year-end 1981 current ratio of 0.54, debt equity ratio of
52:48 and debt service coverage of 0.6 times. A supervision
mission visited Brazil in March 1982, and strongly reiterated the
Bank's request that the Government provide additional funds (or
allow CSN to increase its long-term borrowings) to complete the
project by May 1983 (the earliest now possible) and to restore
the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982 (with
full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a
viable financial position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Government approved budgets for the company
indicate that spending on the project in 1982 will be cut by 40%
in real terms below last year's levels. As a result, work on the
project is expected to stop by July 1982. The company also remains
in a poor financial situation, with a year-end 1981 current ratio of
0.45, debt-equity ratio of 55:45, and debt service coverage of 0.6
times. A supervision mission visited Brazil in March and strongly
reiterated the Bank's request that the Government provide additional
funds (or allow COSIPA to increase its long-term borrowings) to
complete the project by October 1984 (the earliest now possible) and
to restore the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982
with full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a viable
financial position.



37
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river.  Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
cost in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land, inland fisheries, and to increasing
small farmers' resistance to drought through small-scale irrigation
methods, have recently shown good progress.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project is now complete,
resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or construction
of 5,420 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision of about
US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional financing
of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical implementation
of the project, which had reached 47% at the end of 1981, is now
progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan are expected to
be completed by the end of 1983.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding and project implementation are sustained during
1982, the project should be completed by about end-1982.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule because of
initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition regarding
participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is now progressing
satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection of low income
households have been widely exceeded. Substantial improvements in
the management of the project companies have been achieved, partic-
ularly in the areas of financial control and planning of COELBA and
CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 80% complete. The closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated



39
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed with the Government.
The loan is expected to be fully committed shortly.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of
June 30, 1982.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, have been agreed.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date:  July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP.  Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of centers. The presidential
decree approving the legal and financial definition of SENAR was
signed, which now permits this component to be fully implemented.



40
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. A state proposal to reformulate certain re-
maining aspects of the project and to extend the Closing Date is
under consideration.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project adminis-
tration. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-
farm rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging
progress. Preliminary plans are currently developed toward modify-
ing the land, marketing and health components, and to expand the
project area for selected project activities.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily.



41
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed. The maintenance program in the state of Parana
is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station
program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR)
has been completed and the effects monitored. The Project is being
reformulated to reflect current priorities. Project completion
could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities. The Closing Date has also been postponed to June 30, 1983.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984, in
part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of incre-
mental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use of
consultants. However, at least a partial exemption to recently
re-imposed Government hiring restrictions will need to be arranged
by EMBRATER to prevent a serious slow-down in project development.
Overall, the remaining project activities appear to be proceeding
reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services achieved very
close to first year targets and exceeded second year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to delays in the release of federal
funds. Project administration has improved but further improve-
ments in coordination among the entities involved in execution is
still needed.  The agency responsible for the village water supply
component has not performed adequately and is being replaced by
another entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study are
still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. The
monitoring unit has been installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have
reached US$10 million by the end of March 1982, which is in line
with appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
*                   neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
*        1823       Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, previous plans for co-financing have
fallen through and the availability of local counterpart funds has
slowed project implementation.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Some delays have occurred in the appraising of the remaining AGLURB
cities. Corrective measures have been taken to bring this component
back to its original schedule during the recent supervision mission.
The pavement program in low-income areas (PROPAV), and the institu-
tional component are progressing satisfactorily.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily
and no major delays are envisaged.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are
progressing satisfactorily, although the production component
may suffer temporary delays due to financial stringency at the
national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
*                   1986.  Although project start-up has been somewhat delayed because
of the late arrival of funds for the first quarter, implementation
is thus far proceeding satisfactorily. Good progress has been
achieved in hiring staff and consultants, and in the land redis-
tribution program. Overall, project administration is function-
ing well. Start-up difficulties have slowed progress in small-scale
irrigation, water supply, and the establishment of the State Land
Institute; design and procurement procedures employed for rural
roads need strengthening.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays have occurred as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, recent
Government restrictions on hiring are necessitating special
arrangement by EMBRAPA of exceptions.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        FIDEM, SUDENE, Municipalities
of Recife and Jaboatao
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    May 1980
(d)  First mission to review project:   September 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    October 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           April 30, 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        October 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) the State and the Municipality of Recife would ensure the
installation of electricity and telephone networks for the Curado
Urban Center, the CRV-Development and the Jaboatao Industrial
Part (para. 52);
(b) FIDEM would carry out by June 30, 1983 a micro-zoning and
marketing study for the Curado Urban Center (para. 52);
(c) the State would ensure that DIPER recovers full land,
infrastructure, operating, maintenance and administration of the
Jaboatao Industrial Part (para. 54);
(d) the Government would ensure the availability of lines of credit
to micro-enterprises (para. 57);



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(e)  SG/MINTER, SUDENE, the State, FIDEM, and the Municipalities of
Recife and Jaboatao would in April of each year from 1982 to the
year prior to the one in which the project would be completed,
review with the Bank the current year's progress and the
revisions that may be necessary to the annual financing plans,
such revisions to be used in the budget preparation process of
all executing entities (para. 62);
(f) each project agency would maintain a separate project account and
FIDEM would maintain a consolidated project account (para. 65);
(g) SG/MINTER would arrange for independent audits of all project
accounts, and SG/MINTER would submit such accounts and audits to
the Bank not more than six months after the close of each fiscal
year (para. 65);
(h)  FIDEM would, by September 30, 1982, present to SUDENE for
approval, a monitoring and evaluation program which would be
submitted by SUDENE to the Bank for review by October 31, 1982
(para. 59);
(i) the State and Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao would ensure
that all executing entities in cooperation with FIDEM, establish
and/or maintain adequate project management and cooordination
systems (para. 69);
(j) to assist it in the execution of the garbage disposal
subcomponent, FIDEM would by October 31, 1982 hire consultants
with experience in the management of biogas producing landfill
sites (para. 70);
(k) within one year of loan signing, FIDEM would present to the Bank
for approval a proposed structure for the regional garbage
disposal company and, within two years of loan signing, the State
would create, and transfer responsibility for garbage disposal
operations to, the company (para. 70);
(1) the State of Pernambuco would: (a) make capital contributions to
COHAB of US$2.0 million equivalent in 1982, and US$1.0 million
equivalent in 1983 and in 1984; (b) ensure that COHAB would
maintain a current ratio of no less than 1.5:1; (c) establish a
coordination system among state agencies to ensure the timely
provision of infrastructure to COHAB projects; and (d) cause
COHAB to devise and implement a program to improve collections
and to ensure that personnel and general administrative expenses
do not exceed 2% of COHAB's total assets; and



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(in) (a) the State and the Municipalities of Recife and Jaboatao would
agree to provide adequate resources for the operation and
maintenance of project facilities; and (b) FIDEM would by March
31 of each year prepare an annual report for the Bank containing
an evaluation of the adequacy of operation and maintenance
expenditure (para. 73).



ye                            ,;; 4 ff RECIFE METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT PROJECTi
PROJECT COMPONENT LOCATION
eL,,V.t                     r        .  /X0A                  :                                                      ,                  >      > 
.-r I  v   - 4L_y/\fo{i
'tomaroca I
/                               ,                                                       I/                                , 
f h(vZ  m W1  O  f5   Vfutec                                  
\ORi HERrN  fJJLT.X c
/                           ygorgoss,
A  breu  e Limo
\ \  t>  '                            PQ,uY      istcl I i                   ,' tSX F oI
[-,>-Ji"--_-V- /\ o-~ESTEPN                                                                               E7 ! ,/:i?FEf
C;NRAL N_ EUS
- ~~           -~~- -  Jaboat6c,
PROJECT cOMfPONENTS
Squptter Jpgroddig.
\rfa 1,tRB-PCR
Z1 ~7z   .;  R-Jo / COHAB- PE
J.bortro/URJ -PMJ
/                                                               /       .      f                im     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Garhooe . :pOro g Sler
-R-101 Sir-tr-ul AOo,
I - rodo IVtow L- ome Ho..H-g
fUjb-r D-v lop-ert of the
z                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cap b-rb. Roar Volley
Mo-o Road,
C.-bo                                                                       Xfr; - | & = ' BRlf Ip A,re-
- - - fNrl.  Oooodoil-Rree  B...
{ i \ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   -   Oecife Aieirooolloo  eoI  Regor oudery
\   v f-    ^'C_-.-]-I_,z,,   \    .-9v       L     'L;    .~~~~~-                 Irrernarior:l bo:aaderre
1            6
_   /  . .   __ _      tAOMerEsS |      z     T       ]  ,  T  .  i



