LOAN NUMBER 2170 BR
Loan Agreement
(ReciLe Metropolitan Region Development Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2170 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   2, 1982,
between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 0    BRAZIL (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out, as hereinafter and in
the Project Agreement (defined hereinafter) provided, by the
State of Pernambuco through Fundagao de Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Metropolitana do Recife - FIDEM, the Municipality of Recife, the
Municipality of Jaboatao and the other Executing Entities
(defined hereinafter) with the Borrower's assistance provided
through Secretaria Geral of the Borrower's Ministry of Interior
and Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste - SUDENE, and
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will, through SUDENE,
make available the proceeds of the Loan as heteinafter provided.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and coaditions set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank, SUDENE, the State of Pernambuco, FIDEM, the Municipality of
Recife and the Municipality of Jaboatao of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b)    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
enterod into between SUDENE, the State of Pernambuco and FIDEM
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)  "MINTER" means Ministerio do Interior, the Borroier's
Ministry of the Interior;
(d)   "SG/MINTER" means the Secretaria Geral, the General
Secretariat of MINTER established by Decreto No. 75,444 of March
6, 1975 of the Borrower;
(e) "SDU/MINTER" means the Subsecretaria de Desenvolvimento
Urbano, the Sub-secretariat for Urban Development of MINTER
.established by Portaria No. 246 of May 11, 1979 of MINTER;
(f)  "BNH" means Banco Nacional da Habitagao, the National
Housing Bank of the Borrower established by Lei No. 4,380 of
August 21, 1964, as amended by Lei No. 5,762 of December 14, 1971
and by Lei No. 6,245 of October 2, 1975, all of the Borrower;
(g)  "CEBRAE" means Centro Brasileiro de Apoio a Peguena e
M6dia Empresa, the Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and
Medium Enterprises, a non-profit civil corporation established on
July 5, 1972 and registered in the Cartorio do 10 Oficio de
Registro de Pessoas Juridicas, Titulos e Documentos of Brasilia,
D.F. on July 20, 1972;
(h)   "COHAB-PE" means Companhia de Habitagao Popular do
Estado de Pernambuco - COHAB-PE, the Housing Company of the State
established by Lei No. 5,654 of October 1, 1965 of the State;
(1)   "SUDENE" means Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do
Nordeste, the   Northeast  Development  Superintendency  of   the
Borrower established by Lei No. 3,692 of December 15, 1959 of the
Borrower;


﻿-3-
(j)   "SUDEPE" means Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da
Pesca, the Agency for Fisheries Development of the Borrower
established by Lai Delegada No. 10 of October 11, 1962 of the
Borrower;
(k)  "CEBRAE agreement"' means the agreement between CEBRAE
and MINTER dated May 31, 1979, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and all
agreements supplemental thereto;
(1)   "SUDEPE agreement" means the agreement between SUDEPE
and MINTER dated May 31, 1979, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and all.
agreements supplemental thereto;
(m)   "convenio" means any agreement to be entered into in
accordance with Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement between
FIDEM (defined hez-einafter) and any other Executing Entity
(defined hereinafter);
(n) "State" means the State of Pernambuco;
(o)   "DIPER" means Companhia de Desenvolvimento Industrial
de Pernambuco, the Industrial Park Company of the State
established by Lei No. 5,840 of August 26, 1966 of the State;
(p)   "FIDEM" means Fundacao de Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Metropolitana do Recife - FIDEM, a foundation under the supervi-
sion of the Secretariat of Planning of the State established by
Lei No. 6,890 of July 3, 1975 of the State;
(q) "Recife" means the Municipality of Recife;
(r) "Jaboatao" means the Municipality of Jaboatao;
(s)   "Recife Metropolitan Region" means the metropolitan
region established under Lei Complementar No. 14 of June 8, 1973
of  the   Borrower  encompassing  the  municipalities  of   Cabo,
Igarassu, Itamaraca, Jaboatao, Moreno, Olinda, Paulista, Recife
and Sao Lourengo da Mata;


﻿-4-
(t) "Executing Entity" means any of the executing entities
listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and "Account Bank" means Banco
Central do Brasil; and
(v) "cruzeiro" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Lo an
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred twenty-three million nine hundred thousand dollars
($123,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan mLy be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause to be opened and thereafter
maintained in dollars a Special Account in the Account Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reason-
able cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project
and to be financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) above and Schedule 1 hereto.
(c)   The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account an amount in
dollars of up to eight million dollars ($8,000,000). In the event
the amount of such initial deposit into the Special Account is


﻿-5-
less than eight million dollars ($8,000,000) the Borrower may
from time to time request the Bank to withdraw from the Loan
Account and make one or more additional initial deposits into the
Special Account, but in no event shall the amount of such initial
deposits   exceed   in  the   aggregate   eight  million   dollars
($8,000,000). At the request of the Borrower, the Bank shall fur-
ther withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the
Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under this Agreement, but only to the extent that the
amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such request,
shall not exceed in the aggregate eight million dollars
($8,000,000). Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine, each
such deposit after the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the same categories set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same
respective amounts, as have been justified by the documentation
for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph
(e) of this Section.
(d)   Prior to or at the time of each request for a with-
drawal by the Borrower from the Special Account, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Account Bank, in respect of each payment
made by the Borrower, an application for withdrawal from the
Special Account on the basis of statements of expenditures
showing t:hat the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with para-
graph (a) above. The Account Bank shall authorize the Borrower to
withdraw from the Special Account an amount in cruzeiros deter-
mined on the basis of the foregoing evidence, and shall debit the
Special Account with the dollar equivalent of such amount in
cruzeiros determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between
the dollar and the cruzeiro in effect at the time each payment
was made.
(e)  Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account, the Account Bank shall
furnish to the Bank in respect of each withdrawal from the
Special Account an application for withdrawal from the Loan
Account on the basis of: (i) the statements of expenditures
referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section; and (ii) the esti-


﻿-6-
mated expenditures in respect of the payments to be made in the
following calendar quarter for the reasonable cost of goods or
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with paragraph (a) above.
(f) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Special
Account, or (ii) was not justified by the application for with-
drawal furnished pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to any further deposit in
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special Account
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.
(g)  Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (d) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined, after consulta-
tion with the Borrower, that all further withdrawals from the
Loan Account may be made directly by the Borrower from the Loan
Account pursuant to paragraph (a) above, or when the total amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account plus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any special com-
mitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent of one
hundred six million dollars ($106,000,000) whichever shall
be sooner. Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
amount of the Loan for the Project shall follow such procedures
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and shall be
made only to the extent that the Bank shall be satisfied by the
evidence submitted in support of the applications for such
withdrawal that all payments by the Borrower out of the Special
Account were made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one million
eight    hundred   thirty-one    thousand   thirty-four    dollars
($1,831,034). The fee shall be payable in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank
shall not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required for the
full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified
for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. SG/MINTER is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower:


﻿-8-
(a) shall cause SUDENE, and shall enable the State and the Exe-
cuting Entities, to perform their respective obligations pursuant
to the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the con-
venios; (b) shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the timely provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SUDENE, the State
and the Executing Entities to perform such obligations; and (c)
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would pre-
vent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through SUDENE, make
the proceeds of the Loan available tj FIDEM through the State
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between SUDENE,
the State and FIDEM, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.
(b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsid-
iary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause CEBRAE and SUDEPE
to perform their respective obligations under the CEBRAE
agreement and the SUDEPE agreement.
(b) . The Borrower shall ensure that no provision of the
CEBRAE agreement or the SUDEPE agreement is assigned, amended,
abrogated or waived without the Bank's agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through SG/MINTER, review
with the Bank, SUDENE, the State, FIDEM, Recife and Jaboatao
during the month of April of each year, starting in 1983 and
ending in the year prior to the year in which the Project shall
be cempleted, the progress in Project execution during the pre-
vious twel', r-nnths and the revisions that may be necessary or
appropriate t(,  I  annual financing plan for the Project, such
revisions to be take- into account in the budget preparation
process of all Executing Entities.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure the availability of lines of credit as sha'l be neces-
sary for the execution of Part C (1) of the Project


﻿-9-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause BNH to make available
to the Executing Entities, in the form of loans, thirty ner    < -t
(30%) of the funds necessary for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, through SG/MINTER,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall, through SG/MINTER, promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Borrower and
SUDENE of their obligations under this Agreement or the Sub-
sidiary Agreement or the performance by CEBRAE and SUDEPE of
their respective obligations under the CEBRAE agreement and the
SUDEPE agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, through SG/MINTER, cause
SUDENE at all times to manage its affairs and carry on its
operations with respect to the Project in :'cordance with
appropriate  administrative,   financial  and  u,oan   development
policies and practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall through SG/MINTER:
(a)  have the separate Project accounts maintained by the
Executing Entities and the consolidated Project account main-
tained by FIDEM for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as .available, but in any
case not later thaa six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements with respect to
the separate Project accounts and the consolidated Project
account for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors: (i) on


﻿- 10 -
the separate Project accounts and consolidated Project account;
and (ii) as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditures have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements with respect to the Project
and the audit thereof as the Bank may from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement:
(a)  except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Special
Account shall be audited annually by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank and, promptly after the audit and not later than
four months after the close of the Account Bank's fiscal year,
the Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such audit,
together with a certified copy of the auditor's report, including
a description of the audit procedures; and
(b) the Borrower shall cause the Account Bank to furnish to
the Bank each month certified statements of the Special Account,
and from time to time such other information concerning such
Special Account, the audit thereof, and the statements of expen-
ditures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its me2mbers not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and


﻿- 11 -
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created or assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing d debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) SOPM'E, the State, FIDEM, Recife or Jaboatao shnll have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the legislation refer-
red to in Section 1.02 (h) or (o) of this Agreement which shall
materially and adversely affect the ability of SUDENE or FIDEM to
carry out any of its obligations set forth in the Subsidiary
Agreement or any convenio;


﻿- 12 -
(c)  the Borrower, the State or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of SUDENE or FIDEM or for the suspension of the
operations of either of them without having made alternative
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out of the
Project;
(d) any party to the Subsidiary Agreement, a convenio, the
CEBRAE agreement or the SUDEPE agreement shall have failed to
perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of such party under
the respective convenio or agreement; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CEBRAE, SUDEPE or any of the Executing Entities or for
the suspension of the operations of any of them without having
made alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the
carrying out of the Project; provided, however, that in the case
of an Executing Entity the suspension of the right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be limited to that
portion of the Loan which has been allocated to the part of the
Project affected by any of the events referred to in paragraph
(d) above.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower, SUDENE, the State, FIDEM, Recife and
Jaboatao; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and
(e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿- 13 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions: (a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and (b) that the Subsidiary Agreement
has been executed by SUDENE, the State and FIDEM.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SUDENE, the State, FIDEM, Recife and Jaboatao, and is
legally binding upon SUDENE, the State, FIDEM, Recife and
Jaboatao in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SUDENE, the State and FIDEM, and is legally
binding upon SUDENE, the State and FIDEM in accordance with its
terms; and
(d)  that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or
agencies, any agency of any such political subdivision, or other-
wise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower, SUDENE, the State,
and the Executing Entities to perform all of their respective
obligations in this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Sub-
sidiary Agreement, the CEBRAE agreement, the SUDEPE agreement and
the convenios contained, together with all necessary powers and
rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly per-
formed or given and that no other such acts, consents or appro-
vals are required in order to authorize the carrying out of the
Project and to enable the Borrower, SUDENE, the State and the
Executing Entities to perform all of their respective obligations
in this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Agree-
ment, the CEBRAE agreement, the SUDEPE agreement and the conven-
ios contained.
Section 7.03. The date               2           , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02 The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco 5
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                          0611142 MFAZ BR
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Recife, state of Pernambuco, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of
the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
Authorized Representative
By 1V2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
6/Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works               54,000,000          27%
(2) Consultants'              60,000,000          100%
services
(3) Fee                        1,831,034          Amount due
(4) Initial deposit            8,000,000
into Special
Account
(5) Unallocated                   68,966
TOTAL         123,900,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.


﻿- 17 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $3,000,000 in respect of payments for civil works,
and that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $7,000,000 in respect of payments for consultants
services, may be made before that date but after December 1,
1981;
(b)   expenditures for any part of the Project unless the
Bank has been furnished with evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
of the execution of a convenio between FIDEM and an Executing
Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the part of the
Project which shall be carried out by such Executing Entity;
(c) expenditures under Part B (6) of the Project for gar-
bage collection equipment for any municipality in the Recife
Metropolitan Region unless the Bank has been furnished with
evidence,  satisfactory  to   the  Bank,  that  the   respective
municipality has put into effect a program to ensure that
revenues from solid waste management cover the full cost of
operation, maintenance and vehicle replacement;
(d)  expenditures under Part B (6) of the Project for the
garbage disposal component unless the Bank has been furnished
with evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of the execution of a
convenio between FIDEM and the municipalities of the Recife
Metropolitan Region providing for the basic operational and
financial relationships and procedures for garbage collection and
disposal and for the establishment of a garbage disposal company;
(e)  expenditures under any part of Part D of the Project
(excluding expenditures for Project Management under Part D (1)
(b) thereof) unless the Bank has been furnished with a final work
program for such part of the Project satisfactory to the Bank,
including the qualifications and experience of the staff and
consultants for such part of the Project; and
(f) expenditures for the first phase of the Recife upgrad-
ing under Part A (1) of the Project, the first phase of the Cap-
ibaribe River Valley Development under Part B (5) of the Project,
Curado Urban Center under Part B (2) of the Project, Curado IV


﻿- 18 -
under Part B (3) of the Project, the first bio-gas plant under
Part B (6) of the Project, and the first three income creation
projects for which final designs shall have been prepared under
Part C of the Project until the Bank has reviewed and approved
the final designs for the respective Project component.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to provide or improve hous-
ing, urban infrastructure and services within the existing urban
fabric in the Recife Metropolitan Region; to provide infrastruc-
ture and services on a metropolitan scale in order to support,
complement and induce desired patterns of metropolitan develop-
ment; to generate and enhance income, especially for the urban
poor; and to strengthen the institutions responsible for the
planning, administration and financial management associated with
urban and metropolitan region development.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Upgrading
Upgrading of low-income settlements including, as appro-
priate to the specific needs of each settlement, the filling of
lagoon or   flood areas, a drainage network, street paving,
pedestrian ways and stairs, potable water, low-cost sanitation
facilities, and community facilities, including creches, schools,
health posts, and community centers, together with the legaliza-
tion of tenure as necessary, and home improvement loans.
Part A (1) covers about 240 hectares, benefitting about
70,000 people, to be carried out in four phases by Recife.
Part A (2) covers about 370 hectares, benefitting about
60,000 people, to be carried out by Jaboatao.
Part A (3) covers about 85 hectares, benefitting about
30,000 people, to be carried out by COHAB-PE.
Part A (4) includes complementary infrastructure in Recife,
including about 9 km of macro-drainage channels, about 13 km of
road paving, together with the necessary micro-drainage systems,
about 7 km of water main, and recreation areas.
Part B:   Metropolitan Infrastructure
(1) Improvements to about 11 km of the BR-101 to provide
four lanes for mixed traffic, plus parking, an exclu-
sive two-lane busway, cycle paths, and sidewalks,


﻿- 20 -
including all necessary earthmoving, drainage, paving,
signing and signalling, landscaping and lighting.
(2) Construction of urban     infrastructure of about 110
hectares for the Curado Urban Center, including site
preparation and earthmoving, drainage and paving,
access roads, water and sewer networks and a recreation
park.
(3) Construction   of  a  residential  housing  development
(Curado IV) of about 130 hectares, including about
4,500 dwelling units comprising about 1,400 row units,
about 900 core (embryo) units, and about 2,200
apartment units, plus urban infrastructure including
road, water, and sewer networks, stairs, and community
facilities.
(4) Construction of an industrial park in Jaboatao of about
23 hectares comprising about 30 modular workshops of
varying sizes, plus the necessary site grading, roads,
drainage, water supply, and sanitation.
(5) Development in four phases of about 240 hectares of
land in the Capibaribe River Valley, (including about
6 km of primary road, 6 km of secondary road, 7 km of
pedestrian ways, 8 km of cycle path, water and sewer
network, street lighting, 4 pedestrian bridges, 1 vehi-
cular bridge, plus community facilities and recreation
areas and parks) to be sold to State and private
housing companies for the subsequent construction of
about 10,000 dwelling units.
(6) Improvements to    the garbage   collection  system  and
improvements to and operation of the garbage disposal
system, including the provision of about 280 vehicles
plus garbage containers, equipment for street and drain
cleaning,  5  garages/maintenance  shops,   2  Lransfer
stations, including related equipment, and equipment
for 2 landfill sites for the production treatment and
distribution of bio-gas.


﻿- 21 -
Part C:   Income Creation and Improvement
(1)  (a) Expansion of the program of Uniao Nordestina de
Organizagoes de Pequenos Negocios for managerial
and technical assistance to micro-enterprises
through the establishment of 3 regional offices in
Jaboatao, Paulista and Sao Lourengo da Mata, to
provide (i) technical and managerial assistance to
about 3,200 enterprises, (ii) supervised access to
credit to about 4,400 enterprises, and (iii)
management courses to about 1,600 .wner/managers,
plus the creation, as appropriate of common
service   associations  and   the   promotion   of
equipment sharing and technology.
(b) Establishment of    productivity  centers in   Casa
Amarela and Coque, through the provision of tech-
nical and managerial assistance, facilities and
equipment, to promote (i) productivity increases
in about 2,400 micro-enterprises, and (ii) the
formation of about 6 common service associations.
(c) Establishment of a productivity center in Jaboatao
(i) to increase the productivity of about 1,200
micro-enterprises, (ii) to increase incomes for
about 1,600 self-employed producers, and (iii) to
form 3 common service associations.
(2)  (a) Establishment and operation of 4 labor inter-
mediation centers, in Mustardinha/Afogados, Boa
Viagem, Madalena, and Rio Doce/Olinda; continued
operation  of  the  Casa  Amarela  center;     the
establishment of a central control unit in one of
the centers; and a pilot project to provide
assistance to artisans in Igarassu and Itamaraca.
(b) Establishment of 6 labor intermediation centers in
Brasilia  Teimosa,   Coelhos,  Favela   Esperanga/
Conceigao, Pina, Monsenhor Fabricio, and Torre/
Zumbi, including infrastructure and equipment.
(3)  (a) Provision of infrastructure and equipment to a
fisheries cooperative.


﻿- 22 -
(b) Provision of a shrimp breeding station and a
shrimp farm, plus technical assistance to shrimp
producers.
(c) Conservation and conversion of historic monuments
in Igarassu and Itamaraca, and the provision of
tourist facilities and infrastructure.
Part D:   Institutional Development
(1) Carrying out of a program of technical assistance to
FIDEM and other agencies of the Recife Metropolitan
Region, including   (a) changes *in the institutional
framework, (b) systems adjustments, (c) community par-
ticipation, (d) management, administrative and techni-
cal support for municipalities, (e) development of
human resources, and (f) studies.
(2) Carrying out of a health and sanitation education pro-
gram to promote improved hygiene practices and proper
use of garbage collection facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1985
through   December 1, 1996                  5,160,000
On June 1, 1997                                  5,220,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿-24-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  2.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                  4.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                  8.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                                 10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurenent
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for (i) vehicles and (ii) equipment for the pro-
duction, treatment and distribution of bio-gas under Part B (6)
of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, SUDENE shall furnish to the Bank as soon
as possible., and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or pre-
qualification documents relating thereto,. as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and contain-
ing such information as the Bank shall reasonably requct,; the
Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. SUDENE shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis o international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Executing Entities of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.


﻿- 26 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for goods (except as provided in paragraph A.1
hereof) and contracts for civil works (except as provided in
paragraph B.2 hereof) shall be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding locally advertised and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2. With the prior agreement of the Bank, minor civil works may be
carried out by use of force account or by community groups
directly contracted by the Executing Entities.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in paragraph A of this Schedule, goods manufac-
tured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Executing Entities and the
Bank   that    such   goods   contain   components
manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of
the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.    All evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the low-
est evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this


﻿- 27 -
comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (A) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price;
and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of the domestically supplied
goods offered in each Group B bid an amount equal to (A) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be
levied on such goods if they originated from the same foreign
country as the goods included in a group B bid which enjoy the
lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or (B) 15% of the
ex-factory -price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further com-
parison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from Group B which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review by the Bank of invitations to bid and of proposed
awards and final contracts:
With respect to the contracts referred to in paragaraph A.1
hereof:
(a)   Before bids are invited, SUDENE shall furnish to the
Bank for its comments the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a des-
cription of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, SUDENE
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the


﻿- 28 -
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform SUDENE and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the deliv-
ery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   Review by SDU/MINTER of invitations to bid and of proposed
awards and final contracts:
With respect to the first civil works contract for each
Executing Entity:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Executing Entities shall
furnish to SDU/MINTER, through FIDEM, for its comments the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bid-
ding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as SDU/MINTER
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require SDU/MINTER's cconcurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, the Exe-
cuting Entities shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform SDU/MINTER, through FIDEM, of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to
SDU/MINTER, through FIDEM, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as SDU/MINTER shall reason-
ably request. SDU/MINTER shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be consistent with the Guidelines and this
Schedule, promptly certify such determination to the Bank.


﻿- 29 -
SDU/MINTER shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly,
through FIDEM, inform the Executing Entity and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without SDU/MINTER's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph D.1,
the Executing Entities shall furnish to FIDEM, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery by SG/MINTER to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and other information shall be furnished to the procurement
unit within SUDENE to enable SUDENE to prepare a semiannual pro-
curement report to be furnished to the Bank through SG/MINTER.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of any contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform SG/MINTER and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, SG/MINTER shall inform the
Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform SG/MINTER and state the reasons
for its determination.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5
Executing Entities
Project Component                        Executing Entity
Part A (1)                               Recife
Part A (2)                               Jaboatao
Part A (3)                               COHAB-PE
Part A (4)                               Recife
Part B (1)                               State Department of
Highways (DER)
Part B (2)                               State Civil Works.
Company (EMOPER)
Part B (3)                               COHAB
Part B (4)                               DIPER
Part B (5)                               Recife
Part B (6)                               FIDEM, plus munici-
palities of the
Recife Metropolitan
Region
Part C (1) (a)                           Northeast Union of
Small Business
Organizations (UNO)
Part C (1) (b)                           Recife
Part C (1) (c)                           Jaboatao
Part C (2) (a)                           State Secretariat
of Labor and Social
Action (SETAS)


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5
Executing Entities
Project Component                        Executing Entity
Part C (2) (b)                           Recife
Part C (3) (a)                           Recife
Part C (3) (b)                           FIDEM, plus the
State Company for
Agricultural
Research (IPA)
Part C (3) (c)                           FIDEM
Part D (1)                               FIDEM
Part D (2)                               FIDEM, plus State
Secretariat of
Health, Recife and
Jaboatao and
COnAR-PV


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


