1q:PA~~AJ1I                       RESTRICTED
Report No. PE-13a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
GREECE
October 20, 1970
Education Projects Department



CURRENY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1         = 30 drachmae
1 drachma    = US$   .03
100 dr.       = US$  3.33
1,000,000 dr. = US$ 33,333
MEASURES
1m2          =  1.20 sq yd
1 m2            10.76 sq ft
1 km        = 0.38 sq miles
1 hectare    = 2.47 acres



G R E E C E
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF OONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
I.     INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Request . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Socio-Economic Background .1....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Education and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Education Finance . . .....  ..  .             .  ..  .  .  ..  .   .    4
Projected Expenditures   .....  .           .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   .    5
Foreign Aid to Education  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
II,   MANPOWER AND EDUCATIONAL NEEDS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Manpower'Needs for Planned Development  . . . . . . . .   6
Educational Development Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
General   .  .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .    .    10
The Project Centers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Curricula . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Staff Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   13
Enabling Legislation   . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .  14
Cost of the Project .16
iV.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .18
Project Implementation Unit . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Professional Services .18
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Land   .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .  .    .    .    .    .  .    .  19
Disbursements .19
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
APPENDIX A - EDUCATION kAD TRAINING
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Greece during August 1969.  The mission comprised Messrs. R. E. Byron (tech-
nical educator), D. Brewin, (agricultural educator), C. Germanacos (general
educator), F. Owen (economist), and J. Van Doosselaere (arcrhitect, consul-
.nant).






LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
ANNEXES
1.   Actual and Projected Enrollments - All Ministries
2.   Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teachers in Public Schools
3.   Post-Secondary Education (Non-University Level), 1967-68, by Course
and Year of Study
4.   Public and Private Expenditures on Education in Relation to GNP
5.   Total Specialized Manpower Needs, 1968-1975
6.   Sub Engineering Schools - Enrollments and Outputs 1965-66 and 1966-67
7.   Education Project - Summary of Enrollments and Outputs
8.   Education Project - Staff Requirements
9.   Technical Assistance Specialist Team
10.   Education Project - Summary of Estimated Project Costs
11.   Education Project - Contingency Allowances
12.   Education Project - Construction and Disbursement Schedule
ChARTS
1.   Administrative Structure of the Ministry of Education, 1969
2.   Structure of the Formal School System, 1969
3.   Education Pyramid






GREECE
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                                        132,000 sq.kms.
Total Population (projected from 1961 census)               8.9 million
Average Population density                                  66.7 per sq.km.
Annual rate of population growth 1965-6)                    0.9%
Gross domestic product at factor cost, 1969                 US$ 7.0 billion
GNP per capita (1969)                                       US$ 800
GDP growth rate (1960-66)                                   8.0%
(1967-68)                                  4.3%
(1969)                                     8.3%
GDP at factor cost in 1967:                                 US$ 6.3 billion
GDP in percent by sector (1967):
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing                        23.3
Mining, Manufacturing Electricity                     19.0
Construction                                          7.2
Transporation, Communication                          7.2
Trade, Banking                                        13.6
Administration, Defense, Health, Education            13.1
Housing, other services                               16.3
Education (1967-68)
Literacy (1961 population over age 10)                      82%
Primary Education enrollment ratio                          106%
(age 6 through 11)
*econdary Education enrollment ratio                        59%
(age 12 through 17)
Combined Primary and Secondary Enrollments                  85%
Higher Education enrollment ratio                           11,
(age 18 through 22)
Progression rate primary to secondary                       70%
-Progression rate secondary to higher                        0l
Percent o: government revenue spent                           9 9X
on education
Po,lati.on age 15 - 6h; (2.<)                                ,
.remales - 51.8%                                         2,)    - 0
iLiLor Force ( '-968)                                       3,7GI,()GO
Annu.a..l, ave rage growth rat  (   (-()5-l!                 ))k  fest)
1 si:)-7)                     0~   Coi st)
7 il-08)                      0.&;5 (est)
EL;Limated new entrants to l_,ohr f orcc'
(  )((. )                         I
(  ( 7 )-             ' tl    l.  I'o






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This project would be the first major step in a program conceived
by the Greek government to make its education system a more effective in-
strument for economic development. Until now, the education system, the
product and at the same time the guardian of the country's cultural herit-
age, has been predominantly classical. Enrollments in the academic second-
ary schools and in universities have increased disproportionately during
the past ten years in comparison with those in technical education. Private
technical schools, inadequately staffed and equipped, and operated mainly
for profit, have attempted to fill the void created by insufficiently financed
public technical education. Results have been unsatisfactory in both quan-
tity and quality.
ii.       The technical post-secondary level of education has consequently
become a critical bottleneck, seriously restricting the numbers and the
quality of sub-professional personnel. Prompted by increasingly acute man-
power shortages, the government has prepared a plan to reorient the edu-
cation system towards preparing greater numbers of students for direct em-
ployment. Under this program, both secondary and post-secondary technical
education would be up-graded and expanded. By 1980, enrollments in non-
degree studies are expected to comprise 40% of all post-secondary enroll-
ments, compared with 16% at present.
iii.      The proposed project is the first phase of the government's edu-
cation development program and would consist of:
- construction and equipment of five Higher Technical
Education Centers, each in a major city in a different
region.
- technical assistance to provide overseas training for
adrinistrative and teaching staff, and to provide a
team of specialists to advise on development of the
centers.
.The centers would produce trained personnel capable of performing
sul-professional duties in agriculture, business, engineering, food pro-
cessing, and health.  The number of departments corresponding to the above
fields which would be established in each center and the variety of spe-
cialized optiorns to he offered within each department have been planned in
accor'ance with national and regional needs.  The length of the specialized
programs would be one, two, or three years, depending on the subject matter.
The centers would have a combined enrollment of 6,660 students and would
produce about 2,350 technicians annually.
v.        In addition to contributing to the supply of trained sub-profes-
sional personnel, the project would introduce into Greece the multi-disci-
plined, post-secondary technical institution, which pools the requirements



- ii -
of students in a variety of study programs and thereby achieves economies
of scale and more efficient use of specialized teachers, equipment and
space. The proposed centers are expected to be the forerunners of an ex-
panded system of similar institutions.
Vi.       Because administrative or teaching experience in this type oif
institution is almost non-existent in Greece, a relatively large technical
assistance component is necessary to provide overseas training in sizilar
institutions to a number of the teaching and administrative :itaff, and to
provide a team of specialists in administration and teacher training which
would provide guidance to the centers during their initial years.
vii.      The variety of specialized programs in each center has been re-
duced to ensure that the comprehensive program of each center during its
initial years would not exceed manageable limits. Similarly, enrollments,
lave been determined on the basis of the administrative capacity of the
centers during their initial years, rather than on attempts to meet man-
power requirements fully. Consequently, in each field, the combined out-
put from the centers would, at this stage, be well below the total required
by the economy and in some instances would represent only a small fraction
of the required numbers.
viii.     Legislation, enacted to establish the new centers, prescribes
their objectives, staffing, administration, terms and conditions of staff
appointments, curricula, entrance requirements, and status of graduates.
ix.       An ample supply of qualified candidates for admission is assured,
with the ratio of applicants to available places approximately ten to one.
X.        The project centers have been located in accordance with national
and regional development objectives.  Schedules of accommodation, instruc-
tional equipment and furniture are appropriate and economical.
xi.       A project implementation unit would be established within the
Ministry of Education to provide overall supervision of the project. The
buildings would be designed by consultant architects and constructed by
private construction firms. Contracts for civil works and furniture and
equipment supply would conform to the Bank's guidelines for international
competitive bidding.
xii.      The project is estimated to cost US$24.0 million equivalent.  A
proposed loan of US$13.8 million equivalent, 58% of the total project cost,
would be equal to the estimated foreign exchange component. Construction
would be completed within about three and one half years of the loan agree-
ment signing.
xiii.     The proposed project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of
US$13.8 million equivalent to the Hellenic State, repayable over a
20-year period, including a grace period of five years.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      In February 1967, a Bank reconnaissance mission in consultation
with the Greek authorities identified post-secondary technical education
as a development priority. In response to the government's request for
Bank assistance in planning a system of post-secondary institutes, two Bank
consultants in mid-1968 advised a special task force on administration,
staff development, curricula, and other aspects of technical institutions
at this level. After the curricula and locations of the institutes had
been determined, a Unesco/FA0 mission in April 1969, assisted the task
force in preparing a loan request for submission to the Bank. The proposed
project was appraised by a mission consisting of Messrs. R. E. Byron (tech-
nical educator), D. Brewin (agriculture educator), C. Germanacos (general
educator), F. Owen (economist) and J. Van Doosselaere (architect consultant),
which visited Greece in August, 1969.
1.02      After some modifications resulting from the appraisal mission's
findings, the proposed project now consists of:
(a)  construction and equipment of five higher technical
education centers, to provide post-secondary courses
in agriculture, business, engineering, food process-
ing, and health, and;
(b) technical assistance for a total of 26 man-years of
specialists and 35 man-years of fellowships.
The total estimated project cost is US$24.0 million and the foreign exchange
component is US$13.8 million.
Socio-economic Background
1.03      The population of Greece is estimated at 8.9 million and is growing
at an average rate of 0.9% per annum, net of migration. Greece, there-
fore, is one of the few countries with population growth rates sufficiently
low that social services planning can be directed towards qualitative rather
than quantitative needs. Educational opportunities are available to great
numbers; primary education has been universal for decades and 59% of the
relevant age group is enrolled in secondary schools at present. The lit-
eracy rate for the population over ten years of age is 82%.
1.04      Greece has remained primarily an agricultural country.  Of the
total labor force of 3,361,000 in 1967, some 50.1% were employed in agri-
culture, 13.7% in manufacturing, 8.7% in commerce, banking and insurance,
5.9% in construction, and 5.2% in transport and communications. The per
capita income is about US$800 equivalent.



,- 2 -
1.05      Of the country's 132,000 sq. kms. total area, only 30% is flat
and potentially arable. Uneven distribution of land and water resources
and the geographic isolation of large districts create serious problems for
regional development, but equalization of opportunity for the populace hias be-
come a declared objective of economic development planning.
1.06      As the demand for unskilled Greek labor has declined elsewhere
in Europe, increasing numbers of unskilled laborers have returned Lo Greece,
while increasing numbers of Greek middle level manpower have migrated abroad
in search of higher wages. The returning Greek workers have not contributed
significantly to production in Greece, however, because of the specialized
nature of their employment experience abroad. At the same time, shortages of
skilled manpower, particularly at the middle levels, have been accentuated
and have resulted in upward pressures on wages.
1.07      Shipping, tourism, and agricultural exports have been the princi-
pal sources of foreign exchange in recent years. Agricultural exports in-
creased by about 24% from 1963 to 1969, reaching a total value of US$310
million, corresponding to 30% of total exports and receipts from services.
Economic development plans emphasize expansion of tourism, increased produc-
tion of fruit and vegetables for off-season exports to the European Common
Market, improved processing of agricultural products, and import substitution.
Education and Training (See also Appendix A)
1.08      The Ministry of National Education and Religion (Chart 1) is re-
sponsible for all public and private education and training except for a
number of vocational schools administered by the Ministries of Agriculture,
Social Welfare (Ilealth), Labor and Merchant Marine. Education planning,
however, has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Coordination, which
has initiated and developed the proposed project. While the planning of an
education project directly related to economic development by a ministry
with an overview of the economy may have advantages, the government recog-
nizes that the Ministry of National Education and Religion should be re-
sponsible for overall educational development planning. Accordingly, a
planning and research unit has recently been established in the Ministry of
Education. The government intends to develop this unit, which is expected
to improve the rational development of the various types and levels of
education, and to reverse the present tendency towards compartmentalization
within the Ministry.
1.09      Charts 2 and 3, and Annexes 1 and 2 provide the pertinent data on
the structure of the education system, teachers, and enrollments.
1.10      The education system has many striking features:  the high pro-
portion of students who remain in primary (82%) and secondary (52%) educa-
tion and who successfully complete requirements for each primary (95%) and



- 3 -
secondary (90%) grade; high enrollments as percentages of the relevant age
group (Annex 1); ample numbers of qualified candidates for the next higher
levels of education; and academically qualified teachers comprising virtu-
ally 100% of primary and general secondary and 90% of the technical second-
ary teaching staffs.
1.11      An inordinate concern for the role of the education system in
preserving the nation's cultural heritage has resulted in an over-emphasis
on classical education and a resistance to adapting the education system
to the needs of a changing economy and society. Consequently, objectives
and content are not as relevant as they should be, and education concepts
and practices are traditional. In addition, although qualified academically,
most teachers in secondary and higher education have not received adequate
pedagogical training and, except for the few who have trained abroad, do not
constitute a force which could stimulate change.
1.12      The emphasis in secondary education has continued to be on the
academic school (the "gymnasium"), with an increase in enrollments from
226,000 in 1957 to 400,000 in 1967 and a corresponding increase in gradu-
ates from 20,000 to 36,000 per year. Because public secondary technical
education has not increased at a comensurate pace -- only 15% of secondary
students were enrolled in technical education in 1967 -- private secondary
technical schools, operated mainly for profit, have increased in numbers
and in 1967 accounted for 64% of the 457 secondary technical schools. Due
to insufficient financial resources, both public and private technical
schools, with only a few exceptions, lack adequate laboratories and workshops
and properly trained teachers.
1.13      Post-secondary non-university education (Annex 3) has expanded
slowly and at present represents 16% of the total post-secondary school en-
rollment. It is dominated by electronics training (38%) and teacher training
(37%), with only 11% in engineering and 3% in commercial studies. Primary
teacher training is provided in government schools and is appropriate in
size; electronics courses, offered principally in private schools in response
to the demand for some form of post-secondary technical education, are over-
expanded. The emphasis on electronics is due chiefly to the relatively inex-
,,Jensive equipment that is required, compared with civil, electrical or me-
chanical ergineering equipment. The size of the non-university segment of
post-secondary education and the relative magnitude of the programs within
that segment are inadequate for a country in Greece's state of development.
1.14      A dramatic increase in university enrollments followed the in-
creases in gymnasium outputs (para 1.12), as public pressure for university
level studies was manifested. From 1961 to 1965, first year university
enrollments inicreased 95%, with only negligible increases in space and a
27% increase in teaching staff. The government has now taken corrective
measures znd has limited university admissions to 10,000 in 1968 and 1969,
a decrease of 6,000 from the high water mark established in 1965.  The



- 4 -
pressure for admission has accordingly become more intense (51,000 appli-
cants in 1969) and as the output from the gymnasiums continues to increase,
will become even more intense. The unsuccessful candidates, products of a
classical secondary education system, have limited immediate usefulness to
prospective employers and require extensive training for any technical jobs.
Education Finance
1.15      Total expenditures (Annex 4) on education in 1967 were 3.2% of GNP,
somewhat low for a country such as Greece. Public expenditures increased
from 2,870 million drachmas in 1964 to 4,501 million in 1967, a 57% increase,
but their shares of total public expenditures and GNP have not changed
significantly. Private outlays have represented about a third of the total.
If present deficiencies in school buildings and instructional equipment are
to be remedied, a larger public effort will be necessary.
1.16      Recurrent expenditure on public education (1967) was 4,026 million
drachmas, or 11% of total recurrent budget, with primary school operating
costs being the major item:
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES, PUBLIC EDUCATION, 1967
Million Drachmas    Percentage of Total
Higher Education                      595                     15
Secondary General                     874                     21
Secondary Technical                    96                      3
Primary                             2,170                     54
General Expenses                      291                      7
TOTAL               4 026                    100
1.17      Capital expenditures on public education (1967) were 475 million
drachmas or 6% of the total public capital budget; this represented an in-
crease of only 41 million drachmas (about 10%) over the 1964 expenditures,
partly due to the inability of the School Building Organization to utilize
fully the funds which had been budgeted for school construction (Appendix
A). In this period, estimated private capital expenditures increased by
64 million drachmas. Thus, the increased demand for education (paras 1.12
and 1.14) has not been met by an appropriate increase in school buildings
and instructional equipment.



-5-
Projected Expenditures
1.18      Total capital and recurrent educational expenditures, as shown
in the table below, are expected to increase by 236% between 1967 and 1975,
but even with the expected increases in the GNP and the government's budget,
would still be relatively low.
PROJECTED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION IN RELATION
TO TOTAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES AND GNP 1/
(In million drachmas at current prices)
1967      1975 (proj)
Recurrent Costs                                 4,026     8,800
Capital Costs                                     475     1,800
TOTAL Govt. Expenditure on Education            4,501    10,600
As percent of Total Govt. Expenditures              9.9       11.1
Education Expenditures as percent of GNP            2.1        3.0
1/   Excludes private sector spending on education which was 2,308 million
drachmas in 1967 and is estimated at 3,800 million drachmas in 1975.
1.19      Capital expenditures on education represent the largest increase
(almost four fold) during this period and will be possible only if the
Planning Department of the Ministry of Education and the School Building
Organization are sufficiently strengthened.
1.20      Recurrent public education expenditures are projected at 8,800
million drachmas in 1975, more than double the recurrent outlay in 1967,
but are expected to remain at about 11% of the total recurrent budget.
During the next decade, a significant change in the distribution of operat-
ing costs may be expected as the proportion of students in relatively ex-
pensive technical education rises.
1.21      Foreig  Aid to Education: In the period 1967-1969, Greece has
obtained foreign aid for education of about $1 million annually, almost en-
tirely in the form of technical assistance from the 1l.N. agencies, OECD,
NATO and the Council of Europe. Bilateral aid to education has been mini-
mal. The technical assistance programs have provided experts for various
ministries and institutions and fellowships principally for training re-
search personnel and university and technical teachers. These programs are
supplemented by a large national scholarship scheme exclusively for re-
search and post-graduate studies related to the Economic Plan requirements.



- 6 -
II. MANPOWER AND EDUCATIONAL NEEDS
Manpower Needs for Planned Development
2.01      The principal objectives of the Economic Development Plan, 1968-72,
are (a) the reduction of production costs through modernization and restruc-
turing of the economy, and (b) improvement of competitiveness through in-
creased productivity, especially in industry, tourism and agriculture. Both
objectives are dependent upon an increased supply of properly trained tech-
nical manpower. As shown by the summary of manpower needs below, projected
to 1975 by the Ministry of Coordination (Annex 5), the existing institutions
will not be able to produce the required middle level technical manpower.
TOTAL SPECIALIZED MANPOWER NEEDS,-  1970-1975
Estimated
Graduates
Net     Replacement   Total    from Existing
1969     Increase      and Net    Training  Institutions
Categories         Stock    1970-1975  Emigration    Needs         1970-1975
Higher Level
Personnel         94,000    23,000       12,000      35,000        36,000
Middle Level
Personnel         115,000    37,000       14,000      51,000        10,500
Lower Level Skilled
Personnel       1,093,000   237,000      140,000    377,000        336,000
1/   Excluding teacher, armed forces and security needs.
2.02      Business Studies.  Deficiencies in modern management, associated
with both the inadequacies of the educational system and the effects of the
"brain drain", are becoming a serious constraint on the country's economic
development and an impediment to efforts to modernize businesses. The in-
creased establishment of foreign companies in Greece during the past fifteen
years and the expanding collaboration of domestic companies with such firms
have increased the demand for well-trained personnel and raised acceptable
quality standards. Moreover, Greece's association with the European Economic
Community has added to this need for supplementing the graduates of the
existing university business studies with intermediate level personnel.
Needs are estimated at more than 2,400 annually.
2.03      To meet the nation-wide demand in Greece, courses at post-secondary
level should be initiated in accounting, general secretarial studies, and hotel



management in all regions. Courses in marketing and advertising, however,
need be limited initially to major centers (Athens and Thessaloniki).
2.04      Health Services.  The Economic Development Plan, 1968-1972, provides
for new hospitals in Salonika, Larissa and Patras, and better health services
in many regions, representing a total increase of 10,000 hospital beds. To
meet the needs for nurses for this expansion and to remedy present shortages,
5,000 additional trained nurses are required in the next three years, com-
pared with an annual output of 150 fully qualified and 130 assistant nurses
from existing training establishments, all concentrated in Athens and Thessa-
loniki. An unsatisfied demand for nurses exists also in business and indus-
try. There is a need not only to increase the supply of qualified nurses
but also to correct existing regional disparities in the availability of
para-medical training.
2.05      The effectiveness of Greek medicine is also inhibited by the lack
of trained para-medical personnel in other specialties. There are no formal
training programs for laboratory technicians; radiographers, dental technicians
and public health inspectors are especially in short supply. The recovery of
patients is unnecessarily slow, hospital bed space is wasted and patients lose
work time because the physiotherapy schools have an annual output of only 30,
and training facilities are inadequate. Trained social workers are needed to
work in hospitals and to assist in handling hardships arising from illnesses.
2.06      Agriculture.  At present, no institution for training agricultural
technicians exists, although they are needed by: (i) private farming; (ii)
the related commercial sector; (iii) the technical services of the Agricul-
tural Bank of Greece; (iv) the farm cooperatives; and (v) the Ministry of
Agriculture for its education, extension, research, land reclamation and
other services. Many agricultural technician positions now are filled by
university graduates whose education was not as well oriented towards the
required duties as a technician course would be and whose salary is higher
than warranted by the responsibilities of the position; the remaining agri-
cultural technician positions are not filled. The number of agricultural
technicians needed during 1970-1980 by the public and private sectors has
been estimated to be over 2,000.
2.07      Food Technology.  Associated with a planned shift in agriculture
to new products for export and for import substitution is a planned increase
ir investment in industrial processing of these agricultural products. This
will require the creation of almost a complete corps of food processing
technologists, as there are in the country at present fewer than ten fully
qualified food technologists at graduate level and none with middle level
qualifications except for those who have been trained on the job. With the
development of this industry will come a demand for food plant inspectors,
research and development technicians, production technicians for processing of



- 8 -
various foods, assistant chemists, quality control managers, Droduction or
maintenance supervisors, and plant managers or assistant managers. Some on-
the-job training in food processing plants exists, but formal training in
food processing, necessary to produce a cadre of qualified technologists, is
not offered in any institution in Greece. There is an urgent need, therefore,
to establish sub-professional programs in food processing in the industrial
centers of Athens and Thessaloniki with a combined annual output of approxi-
mately 180.
2.08      Industrial Manpower Needs.  The most urgent needs for personnel
to relieve professional staff of some of their routine technical responsi-
bilities, or to supervise lower levels of the working force, are being met
at present by either down-grading university graduates or attempting to up-
grade lower level personnel. Both measures are uneconomical in terms of
costs and productivity. On the one hand, university educated personnel
often lack adequate practical training; moreover, minimum salaries are pre-
scribed by Greek law for university graduates, regardless of level of re-
sponsibility. On the other hand, inadequacies in basic education often
limit the effectiveness of in-service training schemes designed to up-grade
skilled workers. As the typical Greek manufacturing firm is small, the
cost of providing on-the-job training or using more highly paid university
graduates is relatively high. The absence of an adequate supply of properly
qualified intermediate-level technical personnel has, therefore, a signifi-
cant adverse effect on the cost-performance of Creek manufacturing firms.
2.09      Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering.  There is an imme-
diate need for 5,000 technicians in civil, mechanical, and electrical engi-
neering if a ratio of only one technician for every two degree engineers
is to be achieved. Moreover, the government has estimated that approxi-
mately 14,000 additional technicians in these fields would be required during
1968-1975. In view of the present limited annual output of about 200 poorly
trained technicians in these branches of engineering (Annex 6), instruction
in these fields clearly needs to be expanded.
2.10      Shipbuilding.  Greek shipyards have experienced a resurgence of
orders for small to medium (20,000 ton) vessels. One new yard has been
commissioned, and has orders for three years' work; two others are engaged
primarily in maintenance and repair work. The industry, however, suffers
from a shortage of technicians with sufficient engineering knowledge and
understanding of industrial processes to enable them to function as super-
vising foremen or superintendents, or in the design offices as assistants
to naval architects. Estimates of demand vary from 20 to 30 per year with
additional numbers required to replace those lost through attrition.
2.11      Graphic Arts.  The quality of printing in Greece is sub-standard
and the output is low. The industry suffers from the lack of an institution
which would train students in modern methods to a standard which would enable



- 9 -
them to enter the managerial chain. An initial demand of 50-100 annually
has been estimated by the government, but the revolution in the industry
created by high speed automatic equipment and the popularity of photo print-
ing processes will tend to reduce this estimate.
Educational Development Needs
2.12      The strategy of the government's education plan now being formu-
lated will be to relate the education system more closely to economic devel-
opment requirements by improving the secondary school curriculum and by up-
grading and expanding technical education. Under this program, (1) greater
numbers of laboratories and workshops would be provided to improve practical
instruction in secondary schools; (2) the lower cycle technical school would
be phased out and replaced by a broader first cycle general secondary school;
(3) the percentage of second cycle secondary students in technical schools
would be increased from the present 17% to 40%; and (4) enrollments in post-
secondary non-university technical studies would be increased by about 230%
by 1980 while university enrollments would remain approximately constant.
2.13      The need to expand post-secondary non-university studies is parti-
cularly acute, if the manpower shortages at middle level described above
are to be alleviated. This portion of the education system is the critical
bottleneck which is restricting the Greek education system's ability to meet
the economy's demands for sub-professional personnel. During the recent
period of greatly increased university enrollments (para 1.14), enrollments
in post-secondary non-university remained almost unchanged; at present, the
number of sub-professional engineering students represents only 11% of the
total post-secondary enrollment.
2.14      In addition to being under-sized, the post-secondary technical
education system is sub-standard in quality. The typical post-secondary
technical school is inadequately housed and has insufficient equipment,
laboratories, and workshops for technical education at this level. Some
private schools have no equipment. Many employers seem to have the view
that technician training of an acceptable level virtually does not exist
in Greece at present.
:215     hlie required expansion and up-grading should be initiated by
establishing technical education centers, multi-discipline in character to
realize econories in tie utilization of facil-ties and teaching and admin-
istrative staff. In addition t.o Improved instructional programs in the
technologies now being taught, these centers should initiate training in
the s'eclalized fields described above for which no training programs exist.
An additional benefit would be the lessening cf the imbalance of post-
secondary studies, at present almost exclusively oriented Lowards university
studies.



- 10 -
III. TIE PROJECT
General
3.01      The proposed project, estimated to cost US$24.0 million equivalent,
would consist of:
(a) construction and equipment of the following five liigher
Teclinical Education Centers:
Boarding
Location        Student             Accommodation
Athens            2,100                   Nil
Thessaloniki      1,590                   320
Larissa             990                   320
Patras              930                   216
Iraklion         1,050                    344
Total       6,660                   1200
(b)  technical assistance to provide overseas training
for administrative and teaching staff, and to pro-
vide a team of specialists to advise on development
of the centers.
The Project Centers
3.02      The objective of the centers would be to produce trained personnel
capable of performing sub-professional duties in engineering, agriculture,
food processing, business, and health fields. The number of departments
corresponding to the above fields which would be established in each center
and the variety of specialized options to be offered within each department
have been planned in accordance with national and regional needs. The schools
would be located in the major city of each region of the country.
3.03      The content of each course, one to three years in duration (Annex
7), would include sufficient theory to permit graduates to work effectively
with professional personnel and to perform their more routine duties. In
addition, instruction in practical skills would be provided in sufficient
depth to enable the graduates to perform and demonstrate complex skills and
procedures. Employment experience during periods between school terms would



- 11 -
be an essential part of the curriculum. Graduates would be capable, after
having acquired adequate experience, to advance to managerial levels.
3.04      The proposed centers would produce about 2,350 technicians per
year and would assist in alleviating the serious shortage of these types
of technicians (paras 2.01-2.11). This would be an important contribution
and by itself would constitute justification for the project.
3.05      but the innovative character of the centers has implications on
the long range development of the Greek education system which may have
more significance than the project schools' immediate contribution to
Greece's supply of trained manpower. The Higher Technical Education Centers
would introduce into Greece the multi-disciplined, post-secondary technical
institution, which pools the requirements of students in a variety of study
programs, and thereby achieves economies of scale and more efficient use of
specialized teachers, equipment, and teaching areas. The proposed centers
are expected to be the forerunners of a greaLly expanded system of similar
institutions. These institutions, in successfully preparing students for
employment in specific occupations required by the developing Greek economy,
would reduce the mounting pressures for admission to universities (para 1.14)
and would effect a significant re-orientation of post-secondary education
towards becoming a more effective instrument for economic development.
3.06      A Higher Technical Education Advisory Council would be established
within the Ministry to advise on the role and functions of this type of
education, and to ensure the responsiveness of these institutions to national
manpower needs. The members would be representative of government and semi-
government agencies, and of national business and professional organizations,
all knowledgeable of the changing manpower needs of the economy.
3.07      Similarly, a Regional Advisory Council would be established for
each of the five project centers. Members would be representative of gov-
ernment and private organizations in the community and would advise the
centers on local manpower needs, technological change and trends, and in
general, ensure that syllabi and course content are kept up to date. The
initial programs of the centers would be developed by the higher technical
education division of the Ministry of Education with the help of a technical
assistance team and the guidance of regional advisory committees.
3.08      Because experience in administering or teaching in this type of
institution is almost non-existent in Greece, the variety of specialized
programs requested by the government was reviewed in order to ensure tnat
the comprehensive program of each center during its initial years would not
exceed manageable limits. After sufficient experience in administering the
proposed centers has been acquired, additional programs to produce techni-
cians in other specialized areas required by the developing economy would
probably be initiated. Enrollments in the present technical programs, agreed



- 12 -
with the government, have been determined on the basis of the administrative
capacity of the centers during their initial years, rather than on meeting
manpower requirements fully. Consequently, in eachi specialized field, the
combined output from the centers for the present would be well below the
total required by the economy and in some instances would represent only a
small fraction of the required numbers.
3.09      Entrance requirements would include successful completion of sec-
ondary schooling. Selection procedures appropriate to the particular dis-
ciplines would be adopted by the government on the advice of a technical
assistance team. As the output from the secondary school system is expected
to be about 55,000 in 1974, when the centers would enroll their first stu-
dents, and the number of other post-secondary (including university) first-
year places is expected to be approximately 18,000, ample numbers of quali-
fied candidates would be available for the 2,745 places in the first year
programs of the project schools.
Curricula
3.10      The proposed technologies together with their enrollments and out-
puts at each center are listed in Annex 7 and are self-explanatory. Aside
from staff development, a problem common to all technologies which is dis-
cussed below, no difficulties are anticipated in initiating any of the study
programs except nursing, which would have to include adequate clinical ex-
perience in hospitals. As nurses' training has not been provided by any
institution in Patras and Iraklion, hospitals in those cities have not had
experience in participating in such programs. To ensure that sufficient
clinical experience of an appropriate level would be provided, the government
will make the necessary arrangements with these hospitals. Draft agreements
between the proposed cooperating hospitals and the project centers, describ-
ing in detail the obligations of each party, would be submitted to the Bank
for comment within one year of the loan agreement signing.
Staff Development
3.11      Qualifications of teaching staff (Annex 8) have been defined in
legislation and subsequently may be modified in regulations governing the
establishment and operation of the centers, based upon the recommendation of
the Higher Technical Education Advisory Council (para. 3.07). Candidates
would normally be university graduates with responsible employment exper--
ience in their field of specialization. Sufficient numbers with the neces-
sary technical qualifications are in Greece, and salaries sufficiently high
to attract highly qualified applicants have been prescribed in the law that
authorized the establishment of the centers.
3.12      It is expected that all candidates will have the necessary tech-
nical training and experience but that nearly all will lack the desired
pedagogical training and exposure to this new type of institution. To en-
sure that the centers would be staffed with properly trained teachers, the



- 13 -
government has provided assurances that the completion of at least the
equivalent of six months of full time pedagogical training would be a pre-
requisite for permanent appointment to the teaching staffs. This arrange-
ment would permit the temporary employment of technically qualified person-
nel who could complete the required pedagogical training in evening or summer
courses. General pedagogical training would be provided in Greece at SELETE,
the UNDP/Unesco sponsored technical teacher training college, and more highly
technical training would be provided at various specialized institutions such
as the technical university, commercial schools, and hospitals and labora-
tories.
3.13      To obtain experience in similar multi-lateral institutions,
additional numbers will have to be sent abroad. During negotiations, the
government presented for the Bank's review, a satisfactory staff develop-
ment program prescribing: (a) the number of trainees; (b) the types and
durations of studies; and (c) a timetable for the entire program. The
government provided assurances that (a) this program would be implemented
in accordance with the agreed timetable; (b) sufficient funds would be made
available annually to meet the total cost of the program to be conducted in
Greece plus any additional ovterseas training which may be necessary; (c)
for the pedagogical training to ,-e provided in Greece, appropriate arrange-
ments would be made by the Ministry of Education with SELETE and the other
training institutions.
Technical Assistance
3.14      Substantial technical assistance will be required to finance the
overseas training of both adrUinistrators and teachers described above, as
well as the provision of expatriates experienced in this level of institu-
tion to provide guidance during the initial years of the schools. The fol-
lowing technical assistance provisions are recommended:
(a)  For the director-general and departiment heads of
each center, a fellowship would be provided for a
combined program of study and internship at similar
institutions abroad.  Thne duration and substance of
each fellowshi would be varied in accordance with
the individual's needs. Each director-general and
departmient neac would he dppointed sufficiently
early to pera?m completion of Iiis fellowship program
before Lthe schaeUu'ed comaplet.o1± of his center.  The
total :n;twbr of z.an-years of fellowshlips required
Is ostimated to be 35.



- 14 -
(b)  A technical assistance team of specialists acceptable
to the Bank, would be appointed on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank to expedite initial
planning, organization, and staff training in collab-
oration with Greek counterparts. Altogether, 26-man
years of specialized services are recommended, at an
estimated cost of $910,000.
3.15      Total technical assistance costs would amount to US$1.08 million
equivalent. Assurances have been obtained that technical assistance funds
would be utilized in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank.
3.16      The team of specialists (Annex 9) would comprise a team leader,
who would be a technical education specialist experienced in the adminis-
tration of multilateral institutions at this level, and specialists in
teacher training in agriculture, engineering, business, and health. The
first of the planning specialists would be in Dosition with appropriate
counterparts by July 1, 1971. Ihe teacher trainers would assume their
duties not later than October 1, 1972.
3.17      The specialist team would perform the following principal functions:
(i) provide training for counterparts;
(ii) assist the project unit to prepare workshop
and laboratory layouts, and detailed lists
of instructional equipment;
(iii)  assist with the elaboration and management of
the teacher training and fellowship programs;
(iv) assist in curriculum development and in the
initial organization and operation of the
centers.
Enabling Legislation
3.18      As required in Greece, legislation - satisfactory for the purposes
of the project - was enacted for the establishment of the Higher Technical
Education Centers, defining their objectives, structure, curricula, staff
establishment, terms and conditions of staff appointment, entrance require-
ments and status of graduates. The law includes provisions for:



- 15 -
1.  The establishment of a Higher Technical Edu-
cation Advisory Council, and a Regional Advisory
Council for each center, with provision for
the broad representation of non-governmental
organizations and associations; (paras 3.06
and 3.07).
2.  Empowering the Ministry of Education to modify
the curricula and enrollments of courses within
the centers on the advice of the Higher Techni-
cal Education Advisory Council;
3.  Enabling the Regional Advisory Councils to appoint
curriculum committees with broad representation
to advise on the content of each course and pro-
gram;
4.  Empowering the Ministry of Education to
authorize evening and special short courses
at the centers to meet specific regional or
national needs;
5.  After nation-wide advertising, selection of
the Directors-General of the centers on the
basis of professional and administrative
qualifications. The tenure of appointment
to these positions would be at least five
years.
3.19      The government has given assurances that the first Directors-
General of these centers would be appointed in consultation with the Bank.



- 16 -
Cost of the Prolect
3.20      The cost by various types of expenditures (Annex 10) would be as
follows:
Drachmas (millions)    US$ (millions)       % of
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Total
1. Construction
Academic & communal
facilities          144.90   78.00  222.90   4.83   2.60   7.43   31%
Boarding facilities   24.30   12.90   37.20   0.81   0.43   1.24    5%
Site development       20.70    8.70   29.40   0.69   0.29   0.98    4%
Professional ser-
vices                33.30    ---    33.30   1.11   ---    1.11    5%
Sub-total           223.20   99.60  322.80   7.44   3.32  10.76   45%
2.  Furniture              10.80   11.10   21.90   0.36   0.37   0.73    3%
3.  Equipment              11.40  216.30  227.70   0.38   7.21   7.59   31%
4.  Technical Assistance   7.20   25.20   32.40   0.24   0.84   1.08    5%
5. Unallocated             53.40   61.80  115.20   1.78   2.06   3.84   16%
Total               306.00  414.00  720.00  10.20  13.80  24.00  100%
3.21      The foreign exchange component, corresponding to about 58% of the
estimated total project cost, has been calculated (i) for buildings at 35%
and site development, 30%; (ii) furniture, 50%; (iii) equipment, 95%; and
(iv) technical assistance, 78%.
3.22      Building construction costs in Greece have been increasing at an
annual rate of 5% during the past three years, and are expected to continue
at about the same rate during implementation of the project. As project
construction is not likely to begin until early 1972 and would then extend
over two years, a price escalation allowance of 15% has been included in
the project construction cost estimates. The average cost of construction
of US$110 per square meter is modest in view of the statutory requirements
for earthquake protection and climatic requirements for sun screening and
central heating systems. To cover unforeseen factors, a contingency allow-
ance of 10% has been provided for site development and building construc-
tion. For furniture and equipment, a price escalation allowance of 10%
and a contingency allowance of 5% have been provided. The total amount
provided for price escalation and unforeseen factors would represent 16%
of project costs (Annex 11).



- 17 -
3.23      Estimated unit costs per student for the five centers, excluding
professional fees and unallocated funds, are as follows:
UNIT COSTS (in US Dollars)
Construction   Site                          Equip-
Cost Category        Unit   Area m2  Development Building Furniture ment Total
1. Academic and
Communal
Athens Center    student   9.5           85       850        73   1,128  2,136
place
Thessaloniki      student  13.1         126     1,260       101   1,109  2,596
Center           place
Larissa Center   student  16.2          159     1,327       106   1,232  2,824
place
Patras Center    student  12.4          112     1,122        89   1,093  2,416
place
Iraklion Center  student  14.1          18      1,201        96   1,069  2,546
place
2. Boarding
Tlessaloniki    boarding  11.0          116     1,165       103       86  1,470
place
Larissa Center  boarding  11.0          119       996       103       86  1,304
place
Patras Center   boarding  10.6           95       960       103       86  1,244
place
Iraklion Cen-   boarding  11.0          148       990       103       86  1,327
ter              place
3.24      The range of unit costs above is due principally to differences in
the numbers of various specialized programs to be offered in the different
centers and the numbers of students who would be using such facilities.
The total costs are modest for institutions of this type and level. As the
Bank Group has not financed a similar type of institution with the wide
range of disciplines proposed in the project centers, a comparison of costs
per srudent place is not possible.
3.25      Boarding accommodations would be provi.ded to accommodate:  (i)
the agricultural and health students whose instruction cannot be limited to
the normal school day and week, and (ii) a limited number of students from
outlying regions.



- 18 -
3.26      Annual recurrent costs of the project institutions at capacity
would be about US$7.0 million, which would represent about 2.0X of the Min-
istry of Education's 1975/76 education recurrent budget.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Implementation Unit
4.01      A project implementation unit would be established within the
Ministry of Education which would be responsible for (a) overall management
of the project, (b) coordination with other ministries such as Agriculture,
Coordination, and Social Welfare, and (c) liaison with the Bank. The
government has provided assurances that a project director, an architect
and an educator would be appointed, in consultation with the Bank, on a
full-time basis to the project unit within 60 days of the Loan Agreement
date. The project unit would be provided with sufficient supporting staff,
premises, communications, and transport to enable it to function effectively.
Professional Services
4.02      The proposed project is well within the capacity of the Greek
construction industry to implement; project construction would correspond
to only 2% of the value of recent annual construction activity and would
require about two years to complete (Annex 12). There is an abundance of
qualified building contractors who are graded into five categories accord-
ing to the ceiling value of contracts that they are judged by the Ministry
of Public Works to be capable of executing. No other formal criteria exist
for awarding contracts on the basis of technical and financial capabilities.
The government, during negotiations, gave assurances that an appropriate
pre-qualification system agreeable to the Bank would be utilized to ensure
that only properly qualified contractors would be permitted to submit bids
for the construction of the project schools.
Procurement
4.03      Civil works contracts and furniture and equipment supply contracts
would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international
competitive bidding. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would
be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of competing
imports or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. The project
implementation unit would be in charge of preparing and issuing tenders,
evaluating bids, and awarding the contracts.



- 19 -
4.04      The project schools would be designed by consultant architects,
probably Greek firms, conmissioned on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.  An anple supply of qualified architects also exists in Greece,
with over 300 architectural firms registered with the government for design
of public buildings. Foreign architectural firms are allowed to practice
in Greece only in partnership with Greek architects.
Land
4.05      All sites have been selected and are satisfactory.  The govern-
ment has agreed to acquire title and rights in rem for all five sites as
required for the design and construction of the project facilities.
Disbursements
4.06      The proposed loan would be disbursed (Annex 12) on the basis of
100% of the foreign exchange costs of imported furniture and equipment, and
technical assistance costs, and a percentage of the costs of civil works
contracts and locally manufactured furniture and equipment. This percentage
would be adjusted to distribute disbursements over the project period.
Undisbursed funds would be available for cancellation.
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the government provided assurances that:
(a)  Draft agreements between the proposed cooperating
hospitals and the project centers, describing in
detail the obligations of each party, would be
presented to the Bank for comment within one year
of the loan agreement signing. (para 3.10)
(b)  A staff development program, satisfactory to the
Bank, and the technical assistance program would
be implemented in accordance with an agreed time-
table. (paras 3.13 and 3.15)
(c)  A project implementation unit would be established
within the Ministry of Education to provide overall
supervision of the project and would be provided
with sufficient staff, premises, communications and
transport to enable it to function effectively. A
Project Director, Project Architect and Project
Educator would be appointed to the Project Unit
within 60 days of the date of the Loan Agreement.
(para 4.01)



- 20 -
5.02       The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$13.8
million equivalent to the Hellenic SLate, repayable over a 220 year
period, including a 5 year grace period.



Appendix A
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Administration and Structure of Education
1.        The Ministry of National Education and Religion is responsible
for all education and training, public and private, except that provided
in the autonomous universities and in certain vocational schools adminis-
tered by such ministries as the Ministries of Agriculture, Social Welfare
(Health), Labor and 1'erchant Marine. This fragmentation of responsibility
has led to difficulties in the elaboration of a comprehensive education
and training development plan. Hence the MTinistry of Coordination has
taken the initiative in educational planning until the recent establishment
of a planning and research directorate in the Ministry of Education.
2.        The Minister of Education is assisted by a Secretary-General to
whom the professional general directorates are responsible (Chart I). Advice
is tendered to the Minister by the Supreme Education Council.
3.        Basically the education system has a three-tiered structure (Chart
2) of: (i) 6 primary grades of compulsorv education, (ii) 6 secondary grades,
divided into a first and second cycle of three grades each, and (iii) 1-6
years of post-secondary or higher education. Evening secondarv schools
within the formal system extend the three year course of each cycle to four
years.
4.        The division into first and second cycles in secondary general
schools was part of a reform introduced in 1964 when compulsory education
was extended to nine years, that is to include the first cycle of secondary;
the second cycle was to be diversified either in separate institutions or
within the same institution. Reform was rescinded in 1967 before it could
be applied on any large scale. The re-structuring, apart from forcing mod-
ernization of curricula, would have led to rationalization of secondary
school facilities with neighborhood first cycle schools feeding into con-
solidated large second cycle diversified schools.
5.        Wider application of the reform would have ensured, also, much
more suitably oriented candidates for the post-secondary technical insti-
tutions coming from the mathematics-science and technical branches of the
second cycle. Some headway has been made in diversifying curricula in the
second cycle of secondary general schools, and surprisingly larger propor-
tions of students are electing the maths-science stream rather than the
humanities program.



APPENDIX A
Page 2
6.        When reform on these lines is applied, and it is so intended,
there could be a gradual elimination of the present lower level vocational
schools as the first cycle secondary general becomes part of tiie compulsory
education system. This would also call for (i) reform of the first cycle
curriculum to include practical orientations, and (ii) accelerated expansion
of the middle level vocational schools.
General
7.        The Greek education system has some noteworthy features:
(i) a low population growth rate;
(ii)  a high enrollment ratios of school age population
at all levels (Annex 1);
(iii)  retention rates of 82% in primary and 59%o in
secondary, with evening facilities to pick up
drop-outs;
(iv)  high promotion rates - about 95% in primary and
90% in secondary education;
(v) a high progression rate, 70%, from primary to
secondary, and 40% from secondary to.-higher
(this latter is now being reduced);
(vi)  virtually 100% qualified teachers;
(vii) no significant imbalances between male and female
enrollment;
(viii)  outputs at primary and secondary levels more than
adequate for the next level or type of education,
e.g. 51,000 candidates for 12,000 post-secondary
places.
8.        The weaknesses of the education system lie in the quality and
relevance of the education provided, the result of a complex of interacting
factors:
(i) objectives and content of education which are
not in all cases consistent with the needs of
the developing and modernizing economy;
(ii)  an "educational mix" which is still too tradi-
tionally status-based, but is undergoing re-
distribution;



APPENDIX A
Page 3
(iii)  a teaching approach which is too theoretical
at all levels and in all types of education,
partly the result of inadequate orientation
of teacher-training in modern concepts and
practice of education;
(iv) the basic inadequacy in general of existing
school facilities to cope with enrollments,
diversifying curricula and modern teaching
approaches. In particular, secondary level
and post-secondary institutes are deficient
in teaching aids, materials, laboratories and
workshops. This inadequacy reflects the low
3.2% of GNP spent on education recurrent
expenditures and the low level of unit costs
particularly at post-primary levels -- $73 in
primary, $73 in secondary general and technical,
and $270 in higher education;
(v) the conservatism of many administrators and
educators and the administrative process at
central and school level;
(vi) negligible educational research activity, and
the weakness of the universities to act as
leaders in education change; and
(vii)  the need for administrative, organization and
curricula changes in the universities.
Primary Education
9.        School attendance is compulsory from age 5 1/2 through 12.  The
system in 1967 statistically included 106% of the age group, due to the in-
clusion of enrollments in evening primary schools for adolescents, and of
over-age primary pupils in day schools. Retention rates for the primary
school are about 82%, the loss attributable mainly to the difficulties of
school attendance in the remote areas. Enrollments have fluctuated between
972,000 in 1957 and 937,000 in 1967, paralleling the low population growth
rates. All teachers are qualified and of satisfactory academic standard
(post-secondary level). The primary teacher training colleges can meet all
the needs, but the teacher preparation course needs considerable reform to
take advantage of modern education principles, methodology and teaching
techniques, and to familiarize trainees with the new education technology.
The teacher-pupil ratio of 1:33 appears satisfactory but conceals the over-
sized classes which prevail in the cities.



APPENDIX A
Page 4
Secondary General Education
10.       The concept of the comprehensive school as one which meets the
secondary education needs of all candidates in the catchment area has not
been introduced in Greece. The backbone of the Greek secondary education
system is the gymnasium, the traditional academic school. Although additional
mathematics and science periods have been introduced in lieu of some classi-
cal studies, the teaching remains theoretical.
11.       Enrollments have increased by 80% since 1957, from 226,000 to
404,000 in 1967 and graduates from 20,000 to 36,000 in 1968. There is an
apparent wastage of 41% between grades 7 and 12, but part of this loss is
due to transfers to vocational education. The teacher:pupil ratio of 1.36
reflects the over-sized classes resulting from admitting students in excess
of the capacities of the schools. An even greater weakness, however, is
that the teachers are highly qualified academically but have had little or
no pedagogical training so that the possible advantages of the broad general
curriculum are vitiated by inadequate teaching methods. Greece badly needs
to make good this weakness by initiating a systematic program of secondary
teacher education simultaneously with supplying the schools with the neces-
sary resources for modern teaching of more relevant curricula.
Secondary Technical Education
12.       This comprises lower technical education at Grade 7, 8, and 9 level
for the most part constituting trades training, and middle level technical
education at Grade 10, 11, and 12 level, leading to jobs and to post-second-
ary technical programs. Private schools dominate the technical education
situation as revealed by the following data for 1965-66.
Number of Schools    %         Students      %
Public                     164            36          22,000     32
Private                    293            64          47,000     68
457          100          69,000    100
13.       A comprehensive range of courses is offered at both levels of
technical education.  The majority of students attend the evening courses
which provide the full program in four instead of three years. Some 45%
of enrollments are in the lower level electrical installation and mechanics
courses. A number of the middle level courses, although so legally clas-
sified, are post-secondary institutions since they require the secondary
school leaving certificate for entry. The outputs of some of these schools
in the period 1968-1975 are pertinent to projected outputs of the proposed
project schools if these schools are not partially replaced by the project
schools and if courses are improved on lines advanced by the project schools:



APPENNDIX A
Page 5
Courses                         Estimated Outputs 1966-1974
Nurses                                     1,400
Assistant nurses                           1,400
Midwives                                   1,800
Physiotherapists                             300
Agricultural Training
14.       Vocational training in agriculture at middle and lower levels is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. At the middle level no
organized agricultural training is provided in Greece. Thus, there exists
today a serious gap in agricultural education at this level.
15.       At the lower level there are six training schools providing prac-
tical instruction in farming. Of these, only one offers a full length
course in agriculture, the American Farm School at Salonika, which provides
a 4-year course with considerable emphasis on both general education and
general agricultural education. Of the other courses, most are of nine
months' duration but enrollments in these schools are low and output of
students totalled only 170 for the whole of Greece in 1968/69. During the
period 1964 to 1969 a total of only 811 students completed courses at these
practical training schools.
16.       Of increasing importance are the farmers' training centers which
provide short specialized courses in particular aspects of agriculture.
The length of these courses varies from a few days to about three months.
They have grown in popularity since 1961 when only 800 people attended such
courses at two centers to the estimated 1969 figure of over 9,000 attendances
at 27 centers. The variety of courses given is wide and are proving popular
with farmers. Fees and boarding costs are paid by the Ministry of Agriculture.
17.       Briefly, agricultural education in Greece is quite limited in scope,
is often not adjusted to modern technology, and in the vitally important mid-
dle technician/technology level is virtually non-existent.
Post-Secondary Technical Education
18.       Public post secondary technical education is available at only
two sub-engineering schools in Athens and Salonika, and two electronics
institutes in Athens and Crete with total enrollments of about 2,700 in
courses of 3 and 4 years' duration. Eleven private schools offer electron-
ics courses of which many should not be properly classified as post-second-
ary level. }.nrollments in these private schools of 5,400 represent 66% of



APPENDIX A
Page 6
comb,ined enrollments in post-secondary technical education.  Employers were
unanimous in expressing the opinion that technician level training of an
acceptable quality in Greece virtually does not exist, apart from provisions
for deck officers for the Greek merchant marine.
19.       The problem was identified as one of shortages of personnel with
the requisite trade experience who also had the necessary general education
to progress to the next level of performance, or having to employ nrofes-
sionally trained personnel for technician duties, but at professional level
salaries. According to estimates of UNESCO and of the Technical Chamber
of Greece, the latter representing some 10,000 engineers in Greece, there
is a backlog demand for over 5,000 technicians in various fields of activity.
OECD studies in the Mediterranean Regional Project estimated that technician
manpower requirements would increase from 77,000 in 1961 to over 167,000 by
1979.
20.       A well-equipped technical teachers training college, sponsored
by UNDP and Unesco and assisted by USAID, began operations this year.  It
provides pre-service and in-service courses and has on the campus a lower
and a middle level technical school for teaching practice and experimental
purposes. This should considerably improve the quality of the teaching in
the technical schools and may serve to inspire re-thinking of the presently
inadequate pedagogical training of the academically qualified teachers of
the general secondary schools.
Vocational and Apprenticeship Training
21.       The Ministry of Labor has 25 accelerated vocational training
centers for the up-grading annually of 2,000 semi-skilled and unskilled
workers, and 51 apprenticeship training centers with an enrollment of some
7,000. This ministry has made extensive use of private enterprise instal-
lations and staff to conduct these courses, but is now building some regional
centers with the technical assistance of ILO.
Higher Education
22.       The major universities of Athens, Salonika and the National
Metsovion (Technical) University in Athens, and other university level in-
stitutions had a combined enrollment in 1967-68 of nearly 69,000 distributed
by discipline as follows:
Engineering Sciences           8%
Agriculture                    67
M1 4IWI I v                    I 5%



APPENDIX A
Page 7
Science                         11,
Business and Economics         l7';
Law and Political Sciences   39%
hlumanities                     14%
23.        The modest enrollments in the humanities faculties are indicative
of trends in higher education towards the applied sciences although Law and
Political Sciences still attract the largest nuwmbers.  The heaviest demand
for admission to post-secondary institutiolns was for kindergarten and pri-
mry school teaching.  The unsatisfied demand for places in the engineering
and architectural schools is indicated by the more than 50% of the 5,500
Greek students who are studying abroad being enrolled in such courses.
24.        The quality of instruction has suffered from the dramatic increase
_n enrollments that Las taken place in recent years without proportionate
increases in faculty and facilities.  Faced with deteriorating standards,
growing unrest in academic instit-utions, and placement problems for gradu-
ates, the government has taken stcps to liniit enrollments in public higher
education schools.  Competition for availahle places will become even more
intense, with concomitant abuses (Jf the t-caminatlon systern such as cram
courses tand repetitive sitting for examinnitions.  In 1969, of 5,000 app Li-
cants for admission to higher education (includinr, teacher training) only
12,065 or 23% were admitted.
25.        Apart from problems of curriculu, organiz-tion and administration,
enrollments, research and staffing, reference should be made to the very
high proportion of repeaters at this level (28'/ of first year students in
1967-68 were repeaters), and to the low productivity of hi.gher educational
institutions both qualitively and quantitatively, The problems of the uni-
versities are so deeply rooted that substantial mceasures will be necessary
to create an atmosphere of reform.
School Building Construction
26.        The School Construction Organization, under the administrative
control of the Ministry of ,.ducation but operating witlh a large measure of
autonomy, is responsiblc for the desi.n, awarding of civil works contracts,
anc! supervision of construction of all Ministry of Education schools.  Due
principally to insufficient staff, the organization has not been able to
.Mplement the planned school building programs; i., 1967, only 38,. of thie
funds which had been budgeted for school constrctttion were actually spent.
As a result of legislation to strengthen thie School Building Organization,
performance has inmproved somewhat, but in view of the US$2;'6'3 million eqtuiva-
lent that has been proposed for school building constructii o  during 19b8-72,
it is not intended that th1is unit would1 be assIgvred responsibility for the
construction of the proposed project schools.






ANNSX 1
aCTUAL AND PRO.T7CTED BNROT74MNTS -. ALI 'ITNISTRTES
(in thousands)
1967   1968                             1972 - 1973                             197h  -  1975                             198  - 1981
Enrolln ts          as r of age group Enrollments         as % of age grsoupl Enrollments          as % of age group    Enrollments         as % of age group
A. Primary
(Age 6 through 11)                                   937                   1 06%             942                   108% _            910                    105%                845      _            oo%
B. Secondary General
First Cycle
(Age 12 through 14)                                  245                    58%              28k                    65%              325                     75%                388                   90%
C. Secondary Germ ral
Second Cycle
(Age 15 through 17)                                  159                    38%              170                    4(%              160                     38%                126                    30S
D. Secondary Technical
First Cycle (Lower)                                   42  -                  10%              40                      9%               25                     5%                 -
E. Secondary Technical
Seccnd Cycle (Middle)                                 35  2/                  8%              35                      8%              45                     10%                 85                    20%
F. a) Secondary General
(Age 12 through 17)                                 Lho                     49%              454                    53%              185                     56t                5t1                    60%
b) Secondary Technical                                77                      9%              75                      9%               70                     9%                 85                    10%
G. Sub-Total                                                           __ _ ___                                                     ____                       _               ____
Secondary General and Technical                      481                     58%             929                     02%              555                    65%                599                    70%
H. Higher Education
a) University Status                                  69                   9.5%               75                     11%               68                    10%                 64                     9%
bl Non-University                                     13                    1.8%               15                   2.2%               22                   3.3%                  30                   4.2%
I. Sub-Total (Age 18 through 22)                          82                  11.3%               90                  13.2%               90                   13.3%                 94                   13.2%
J. Grand Total A + G - I
(Age 6 through 22)                                 1,500                   61%             1,561                    64%             1,555                   64%               1,538                   64%
1/    s ti mated
Soiure:  XinisTry of Tducation, '1inistry of Coordination, Mediterranean Regional Project  and mission Drojectiorns.



ANNEX 2
Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teachers
in Public Schools
Additional
1967-1968              1980-1981            1980 over 1967
Enrollments Teachers Enrollments Teachers Enrollments Teachers
A.  Pre-Primary          440,000 (85%)* 1,302   460,000 (85%) 1,800    20,000           500
B.  Primary              890,000 (95%) 28,000   800,000 (95%) 26,000   -90,000       -2,000
C.  Secondary General    361,000 (90%) 11,000   437,000 (85%) 16,000    76,000        5,000
D.  Secondary Technical
(i) First Cycle      16,000 (38%)   -         0             0      -16,000         -
(ii)  Second Cycle     9,000 (26%) 1,200    42,000 (50%)  2,100    17,000           900
E. Higher
(i) University       69,000         .....    64,000        .....   - 5,000
(ii) Non-University   8,000         .....    30,000         2,000    22,000       .....
*  As percentage of total enrollment at this level, i.e., remainder in private schools.



ANThill -4
POST-SECONDAiffY -DU11TION (N OLJ-UNlVa1ERSI'Y LEV.L), 1967-68
BY COURSS AND 1iAR OF STUDY
Couroe                        1st Year   2nd Year   3rd Year   4th Year    Total
(i) .;Iec. Sn(2.           188        150          103           96         537
(ii ):'ch. 5JU*             187        11( 1.00                   79        G63
(iii) Civil  rng.             87        1i08          126           89       ILI O
A.  Sub- Total        462         375          329          264      17 3O
B3.  Telecolrmlmnications
(i) aectronics          2,159       1,076           794          -       4,029
(ii) Radio Telecor.         1i21       319                        -          7140
(iii) Radio Technicians   177            -             -                      177
D.  Sub-Total       2,757      1,395            794          -       4,946
(i) Commercial Agents    32            _                                     32
(ii) Shorbhaln,-4pisus   319            -             -           -          319
.  Sub-l'otal         351          _             _           _         351
1~~~~~_.
(i )  *3hipbuilding        116        127           170          48        461
(i i)  Ship Officero         16         39            -            _
IJ.  S-ub- Total     132         166          170           48        Stic'
. or-e EconuoAjcb1             74         57            77          -         208
.   c. -her lr ininf
(i) 1) iI1r,           '1, 51h      1,331        1,268           - 2,113
v :i ))   .-' r'  ~'uOf    r     oi.s l  1 31.    -I                    2 28
:  -PTohtl     1,84        1,5 70       1,               - _,78
¢2 .  Li,i:L j) ri                 29          -            -            -          2'
H.  (thr.           .6                  ___6        _      0-                    3
T,7.  (otler                       84          6 5          li()~1.8'
'6,033     3,628         2,781          31.2    12,751
of v'hich:
Plui-bc Sector         2,306       1,94l5       1,700          2641     6,'3
L. riv'-Vto Sector     3, 72 7     1 ,683       1,081           48      6, 23 1
Source:             O".-:t,anal Statistical Services and Ilainistry; of 1lducation



ANNEX 4
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
IN RELATION TO GNP
(In million dlrachmae at currcnt prices)
Total Central Government Exoenditures  29,2295   33, 923    IK,  7 (     2., (,
Expenditures Education:
Government                          2-,70      3,377      3,700     2.221
Private                              1 , p8V   1,"87      'O .09r
Total                                 ,        502, 2;    ',76 70) l
Gross National Product                6j7.f09   177,129   19 6,g9 2o1,020
Proportions (percent)
Govt. Education ExpendituTes as
% of Total Govt. Expenditures       9.6         .)        9.6       9.)
Govt. Education Expenditures as
% of GNP                             1.8       1.9        1.9       2.1
Private Education Expenditures
as % of GNP                          1.2       1.1        1.1       1.1



AIrn3X U
TOTAL SPECIA.IZED MANRP0MER NEEDS 1968-1975
Net             Replaceiment
Increase         including net          Total
Ca-tegories                  1968-75            emigratiorn          Needs
A.  Higher Personnel                     3 0,930              15,575             46,50
10. Engineers and App. Scientists   9,090                  2,395             114,85
11. Mathem., Physic, Chemists          1,130                 415              1,54-5
12.  Other Professional Personnel    1,540                 1,060              2,600
13.  M4edical, Doctors and other       4,960               3,290              8,250
14.  Soc. Scientists and Adm.         14,210               8,415             22,625
B.  >iicldle Personnel         _8,865                         19,135      _8 OL0
20.  Technicians                      18,275               4,41)60           22,735
21.  Transport-Communications          4,570               2,830              7,14oo
22-23.  IMledical Personnel            5,765               3,365              9b17:
24.  Office Personnel                 15,830               6,105             211,935
25.  Others                            4,425               2,375              6,800
C.  .Lower Personnel                     3l5,895            18 80              50  295
30-31.  Skilled -Workers, Etc.       100,775              58,,595           159,370
32.  Office Personnel                 41, 945             19,635             61,58O
3,.  Sa&lesmen                        68,325              48, o)l           il,365
34.  Se,ni.skilled Labor              5'0,41 5            30,01(9             80,425,
35.  Transport. Cormmn. Workers       16,845              10,865              27,710
3h.  Services                         37,590              21,255             5 8,8 45
D).  Fe r--orc -irt_a   Lind Laborers    236,810              j§15                1 125
TO('TAil                           632,500             227,52)-           859,9 25
Source:  i ltnistry of Coordination



ANNEX 6
SUB ENGINEERING SCHOOLS
Enrollments and Outputs
1965-66 and 1966-67
Enrollments                Outputs
1965-66     1966-67           19_6-T7
Athens
Electrical               298         303                54
Mechanical               284         263                57
Civil                    489         410                67
Sub-total               1071         976               178
Thessaloniki
Electrical               184         234                19
Mechanical               146          220                17
Sub-total                330          454               36
TOTAL               1401        1430               214
Source:  Ministry of Education



GREECE
EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ENROLLMENTS AND OUTPUTS
FOOD TECH-           BUSINESS                                                                             GRA-
ENGINEERING                 AGRICULTURE               NOLOGY   ADMINISTRATION                                      HEALTH SERVICES                             PHIC
(3 Years)                   (2 Years)             (2 Years)            (2 Years)                                     (1-3 Years)                           ARTS
N                                                      a~~~~~~~~~~ 
&  N  -~~~~~~~~~   ea                 aeZ~ -S-   aa(                                                                                             OA
ENROLLMEN T            270   180   180    90                                   240            120    60    60   120         60    30    60    60    90   180    90   120                   90     2100
A T HENS   O U T P U T  75    50    50    25                                   104             52    26    26    52         28    28    28    26    26    52    26    52                   26      752
TI ENROLLMENT            180    90    90            60    690a  60   120    120    60    60   120                                              120    90   180    90                              1590
O UT P UT               50    25    25              26    26            26      26    52    S52    26    26    52                               52    26    52    26                               568
LARISSA       ~ ~ENROLLMENT             180    90    90              60    60    60                            120    60           120                           60            90                                   990
O UT P UT               50    25    25              26    26    26                             52    26             52                           26           26                                    360
PATRAS        ~ ~~ENROLLMENT            180    90    90                                                        120    60           120                                        180                   90              930
O UT P UT               50    25    25                                                         52    26             52                                        52                   26              308
I RAK LION    ~EN ROLLMENT             180    90    90              120                                        120    60           120                                        180                   90             1050
O U T P U T             50     25       25          52                                         52    26             52                                        52                   26               360
T O T A L S           EENROLLMENT            990   540   540    90    240   120    60    90    300   120    600   300   120   600                 60    30    60   240    180    810   180   120   180    90             6660
BY C O URSE S         OUOUTPUT               275   150   150    25    104    52    26    26    130    52    260    130    52   260                28    28    28   104        2      52     2      52    52    26        2348
TOTALS                ENROLLMENT            21            0                        5 0                   4 0                   1 620                                         1862                                90      6660 9
BY   COURSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Z
OUTOUT                           600                        208                   182                    702                                           630                                26      2348 6
IBRD -5217






ANNEX 8
G R E E C E
Staff Establishment Provisions
of the
Technical Education Law
Year         Athens     Thessaloniki   Larissa         Paras   ;|raklion    1  Total
Year              ..l                                             ___ _ _ _ _
T     A.P.   T       A.P.   T      A.P.   T     A.P.| T      A.P.    T     A.P.
1972-1973    56       4     48      4    36       4    36      4 136        4    212     30
1973-1974   134       9     94      8    52       6    48      6   60       7   388      36
1974-1975  1160       9    160      8    84        6    68     6   72       7    504     36
11975-1976  1171       9    128      8    90       6    74      6   84       7   547      36
i _ __   _ _ _ _-__-_ _--_ _ -
T - Teaching
A.P. - Administrative - Professional (estimated)






ANNEX 9
THE TECHNICAL. ASSISTANCE SPECIALIST TEAM
1.        The team of specialists provided as technical assistance
should comprise:                                                         Man Years
- program coordinator, specialist in higher
technical administration                                         4
- program specialists for each of the following:
- engineering                                               2
- business                                                  2
- agriculture                                               2
- health                                                    3
- food technology                                          3
- graphic arts                                              1
- teacher trainers specializing in each of the following:
- engineering                                               2
- business                                                  2
- agriculture                                               2
- health
- laboratory technology                             1
- physiotherapy                                     1
- radiography
26






0                                                                     I
'C  0  'N II         01        0       0'                CI  N        C                      .win 10
co a  'o  N    I 0         N    I      I  I 'N    *0,C         I 0  I C
'C - N  N  N        01        N       *.       -       N1           a
NI
-  'C  C  - '0  aN        0.      -        N       'C
B
01 -  'C 'C  01   -        -       N         a       o-
N 'C N N N N a - 0 - a 'N
-             -  I    -  S  I   -       -I      -    -  I  I
.2                                                                     N   N
000                                                                     N   N
I-I-P      'C  0  'N NN N         0'       0        Oo       N       C
N  N  N                        C       'C       'C
NNa'0  I                                                                 'C
N    I    N  I    I   'N
010 -       a  a  N  N  N        N         N       -         -       N            N      N
'C  C  a  'C  'N        N       a         N       'C          'C
NC                                                      N
-                 'N                                     I
O'C11   N'C'C  0                           N                80
CI1       C  0  NaN         N.-  I       I   N  -  I  I  I   N  -    I   N          I  I
21.10    'C  N  'C a  'C   N  -               N  -              N            N  -
0'C N N N NC0NN  C00NN  .'C
51  .-NalNNl1N-NNNN  'Na NN   NNNN
C   I1      -  N  N  -  a    N          N       0  C      N       N  C         N  C     C
00-    -    -    -  ..   N        N       'N        01     'C           'C
a                               N                 N                 N            N
N N N a o a
I N  N  'C N   N  0  I  I  I   I  1111               isa,             .  a  I
I                                N
i                         8  8  
N 'C 'N a N - N 00NN C - 00 N 0 - N
NNa NON                            'NO ONNa 'Ca
'CC          0   CN                 0  C      N       N  C    I   N  C  'N a
ON a 'N a N a ,- N a .- 'N ON
0101         III 10111 IIIhhuI
N- 0001
.- N  N   *- 01    NN'NN
H     0
N  NO
6               -     'C  0    N
'NN0a CN
C  'N a  N  C    N  a
'CC  NNNN
..I     'N 'N  C  N  0   -  0 00 0  N                     N   N  N
00  CNNIN    OC'N.--a                                          NN    OINN
N  -  C  N  N   a  N  .- a  -   C  -  -  N  -    -  N    I   -  N  N  N
'NN'NNN  N C  a   N   N   N-    N
5 .- .- 'C 'N a .- a I
C  0  0       'N 'C  a  N 'N   a
  C                         N
011  E     N  a  N  N C    'C
OH       N  N  a  N  N    I
jI            
01NN2 8.
N
'2                                                                                 00
0  0    0
a 01800
                .---- P                                        0
CC             00'2                    - H   010   N
00             00
0  C                    IO
 21001 2                 010        0   00
000,1I,   A  1101                                                         00
0,            001,    0         0,1.       0      00         0        0   1.
N             ,4N0        N     NN         -      CC         N       I'   N      N  N      N
N                                                               C






GREECE: EDUCATION PhOJECT
AlloTZwances  
(In thousands USs and Drachmas)
Site De'el    opt             _dnj i. t                                                            Profe6sionraj Services  Technical Assistan            _   I
Coibined Local Foreign  Comkdn  ILocal j2 n Coobired Local  orcign Combined L ocal Foreign Combined, Loca1 Foreign jCc blId LocaL I.I                    Lcal -Forbi,n bne.d
Allowance for                                                         ,                                                                   I
Unforeseen Factors 1/        10%        7%      3%         10%   6.5%1    5%        5%            0               O.25% .75,                _
Allcowance for                                       .
Price Increases              15%       11%      4%         15%    10%      5%      lo%       51      5%     10%  -3.5%     9.5% 
Total Conw  before                                                                                     ;
Contingencies            980       686    294       8 672  5,637   3,035    729         364    365   7,598    380    7,218   1,110  1,110    -            1,080   238   842       8,415  11,755   20,169
j  ..r   . I.-I:I                                                                                                                                                              _ I__  ,  ._
Contingencies:
- Unforeseen Factors        113        79      34         997    648      349      4°       20      20     419      21       393    _       _        _        - _                       7681     801    1,569
- Price Increases           147      1 103     5       1,301    856    555        73       37       36 - 759        38  S 721   _-_        - _       _ 7      _        _      _      1025   1256         2280
|   Total               260 o     182      78      ?,298  1,491s      804    113        %7  _  56 | 1q         _59    i,9 li8                              _                      1/79
Potal Cost Including                                                                               2    80
Contingencies        1,?40        868    372      10,970  7,131   3,839    845         521   541   8,776    .39    8,3                    10             1,080   2 38   842    10,207  13,811   24,078
1/  Includes architect's contingency for changes in designs and specifictbions, and estimator's and contr-ictorls contingencies for changes in specifications, quaL.tities, etc,.
P/ Total contingencies account for 16% of total project cost.
October 2, 1970






ANNE6 12
GREECE EDUCATION PROJECT
0ON0STBtCTION  t  EXPENDITURE      DISBURSEMENT
T,.1 V 1- h        1970                      1971                               1972                               1973                              1974                               1975
Pr.oJt Ite.  -           _              ------------ _-
1A9200,20e LoO-tlor       (US$ 000.)
ATHENS                     ,726    .              ...0.......                     0
2.010238  1,92                      .-      ,       0000000200220-  000_ -__
LAR3ISSA                  4,92o    .........                                                     ..............X ......//FF/F/FF/2/FF//t//////////// 
ThE3SALONIKI              3,425    .; .. .............0                                     _X_X_x_XX _
oxoxooooooxxooooooog.....
7ATRA8                    2,675    ................./////////////////////////////////////
I8AXLION                  3,3h3     ................                 :    X XX    XIXX1 '/////
0000000000000000.0900
Te0oxio.1 Aesietaoooe
A. Pro-jet SpecOalOlOs
Chi.f  fr G-rO,                                                                   X        X        X       X        X                                                   II                I X  X A X Y X X X
PrpEruls Spect lists                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~(12)   (12)  (12)    (12)
T.h- oO,opI                                                                      0         I        0                                                                                                
Ue02her Tr.0,oer.                                                        X       0         0        X
(10)   (10)      (lo)    (10)
N. ftU02-ipe                                                                                                    0       0        I        0        0       N        E        0       0        0        I       0
(12)    (12)    (12)    (12)    (1)    (12)    (12)    (12)    (10)   (tl)    (10)    (10)
Fore-aet EOP*dit-.          TOTAL
cod Di.bAre-Nts           (3S$ OOO0 )
A. -ontructipp& Fees
EAp-dt-re               1 12,21D                100     173      200      200     210        78      S10      612   1,13h   1,h33   1,789   1,789   1,789   1,11L          592     490
Dldb    -r-tno           3,873                           32      57        61      61       65        25      163     195      362      h58      572     572      572      356      160     156
B. Fn.iture  pd
Eorip-eEt (Lppal)
EOp-nditure-               300                                                                                 90                                240     240      240
D e3o,,.e,,.eoos     .      .044                                                                                        4h                               1UC      132      132
C. Fpr dtore  md
Ooolpemct C2oreign).
iope.dit-ree            8,350                                                                                 835                    1.503   1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503
Di.bo-r,et.             9,173                                                                                         810                     1,4.6   i1,h69   1,16B   1,h0    1,b6x
D. TecOcolozl Aslel,,Oe
Eopeodbooo.e.            1,080                                     8      205     205      230      205        23      23       23       23      23       23       33       23      20       20      20        8
Di,b-r,e.nt.               30h                                              6     159      157      179      159       1b       19       09       10      18       18       18      18       16      16      06        6
S. Unal-ca-d
Oxpe.pdit-r,,            1,560                                                                                                          302      312     312      312      312
lloOo,-eeo,oooc            500                                                                                                                   100     000      130      100     100
T20l 6p=ditureo           24,o,0                10       179      208      107     415      293      715    1,770   1,157   1,436    3,627   3,967   3,867   3,192   2,430           710       20      go        8
Tottl Di.b-Or,e,nt"       13,800                            32       50       70     223      224      184      322   i,067       380       476   2,158  2,290   2,290   2,074  1,746           172     06       16        6
Culalti-aX0pen.ditre-   24,000                    100      270      078    893   1,298  11,581   2,296    3,946   5,003   6,h19   10,086  13,953  17,820  21,012  23,h42 23,952   23,972 23,992  24,000
C-Ul.atiVr Di.b-.e,teenOC 13,800                             32      86      156      379      603     787    109   2,176   2,556    3,032   5,190   7,bb0   9,770  01,9b9  13,590   13,762 13,779  13,794  13,800
l2001,tac,od 092o,,ee                             13,0OO  13,708 13,71.   3,01   13,h21 13,197  13,013  12,091   11,01h  11,2.4   10,760   6,blo   6,3'0   4,030    1,930   '10               38       22        6       0
lRSOSND:
..........-  S-roy - Pre-Selcotion OoO-ulot-tt               XXXXXXXXXX   Fi1 lDe-go/Bid Dxuo3nt,                     /////// /  * Co.strction                                               0   Xod Gulr,.oee Period
.I::  ..Pre_ nary  Delgo                                ___ _ _  * Pre-Seeotoon Crntrac ,ore                   oooooooooooo - Prepore Nest,- POGtot-e..qooL.....      L P -t-
Tender dAVd  Ard   nr-t.s                            . - F-rnit-re/Eqip-t Del-ery






GREECE: ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,1969
t   SUPREME EDUCATION COUNCIL                                         MINISTER OF NATIONAL
,                  I                  I , t                I        |  EDUCATION  AND  RELIGfON
ADVISORY               ADIVISORY COMMI.| 
ADMINISTRATION  |    COMMITTEE           TECHNICAL
GENERAL         AND VOCATIONAL           LEGAL
GENERAL               GENERAL               GENERAL                                                                    GENERAL
GENERAL             DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE            DIRECTORATE                                                               DIRECTORATE
DIRECTORATE                OF                                                                                                                                                 PLANNINGFSCHOOL
8   OF              HIGHER               LETTERS              VOCATIONAL                                                                  GENERAL
RELIGION              EDUCATION             AND ARTS              EDUCATION                                                                  EDUCATION
HIGHER                                         BI                                                             7     BCKHELHADMINISTRATIVE
-    FINE ARTS          FVOCATIONAL                 PR    Y               PRIVATE          |TEXT BOOKS                 HEALTHSTA
EUCATIONSTF
Z  | DIREcroRAtSs     4   INTERN  IONAL           CINEMAS AND              PRIVATE                                                 PHY ICAL              TEAC ER                 ADULT
R  D1,?,FCr0RATf'sRELAATION                      LTESVOCATIONAL                                         SCNAYEDUCATION                                 TRAINING              EDUCATION
GENERAL      I                                                                                                  SCHOLARSHIPS
IINSPECTORS    -
I        I INSPECTORS                                          I  VOCATIONAL
................                                                                                                                                                     STATISTICS
:SCHOOLS                                              I                1
I   ..................                                         |  INSPECTORS   I
t -- --  -  -  -- -- --   r   -  - -  - -=--F-='--- -- j'-- -j-   -- -t-   -- ------ -- --  ------
$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  ..  ..............    .............                                                                            ...........................  ........   ......  .:   -- -- -, |r-- -- - - -n
t_ K                                   !  VOCATONAL  * *  VOCATIONAL  *       H{ REGIOSAL   I t   GENERAL    I TNREGIONAL VAI   GENE IE.    TATIONAL                        COLLEGES        I   GENERAL   I
ND TELHNICAL  AND TECHNICAL  ADIOY         IISETR                DIOY         I  INSPECTORS  I       COLLEGE OF   I         TEACHER           INSPECTOR 
K                                            PU|  *    F'LIIC    * '   PRIVATE    * |  COMSPMITTEE  I      I NSPECTORS  COMMITTEE  I          I         GYMNASTICS   *        TRAINING      I  OF HEALTH   I
...........~~L                                .. ..............                     
I              I                                            ENERAL      I      SCHOOL OF           INSPECTORrI
E 1  L INSPECTORS                                      IN2 G;MNASCM  '   YSPECAETP RS   |0PKINDERGARTEN   LINSPECTOR -------
'~"''''''' '''' ''INS''''''''''''''               ''  ''''''''1''''''' '    iLPECTORSIVAT PUB. .....   I PHYSICAL EDUCATION I  TENERO
L           JGYMNASIUM                               L        LI  ----     
............  ......  ........... .   ..........  ......... .: :........    PRIVATE.....I    YINSPECTOR    I       SCHOOL  OF
PRIVATEICAL EDUCATION' : HOME ECONOMICS:
PUBLIC          PRIVATE    ,       PUBLIC          PRIVATE    ,                     , GYMNA
NURSERY          NURSERY    .      PRIMARY      I   PRIMARY    .                             S:U..     L .
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......           .    .....    ,...............,'.. ..-....    ................  .......  ...................
Septembwer 1969                                                                                                 .............. IBRD - 4560(R)  -






GREECE: STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SCHOOL SYSTEM, 1969
PRIMARY                >                          SECONDARY                 -           -P        POST SECONDARY- >
MEDICAL SCHOOLS
mRAE!I    3 4    67    910 I   2PRFESIN 3 SHO
OTHER UNIVERSITY FACULTIES
<  FIRST CYCLE--          <-SECOND CYCLE -
COMMERCIAL
{ 9    {     }          ~~~~~~(PRIMARY)
TEACHER TRAINING
KINDERGARTEN                                                                                   GE NE RA L
YEAR
{ @ }{g1              ~~~~PROJECT SCHOOLS
. ,, N . L *eNATIONAL TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY
TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
0 ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS
NOTE The age- grade relahonship applies only when students enter the school at 5/2-6  LOWER TECHNICAL!  MIDDLE TECHNICAL/
and proceed through the system without repeating a class.
VOCATIONAL                VOCATIONAL
LABOR MARKET
AGE     4      5       6      7       8      9       10     11          12      13     14         15      16      17         18     19      20      21     22      23      24     C
IBRD - 4562(2R) N






GREECE: EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENT BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL, 1967-68
YEAR OF STUDY
HIGHER / POST SECONDARY
I18                                                                     JO Il
17                                                                    2,792
1 6                                                                 n B
152
BOYS                                                               GIRLS
1 3                                                                 25             GENERAL
SECONDARY                                                                                    TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL
12                                                6                  8 0  19,525  "    2,000
SECOND
CYCLE         I                                             8 000              2 251  2.               3,000
10                                   13,000                            8  31,43 
9                                    13,000                          4 14  30 3i3            1,000
FIRST
CYCLE         8                               12,000                              ,122   37,419              1,000
t  7                    ~~~~~~~14,000t                              30 i 44  4       oo
7                                        ....      .  .. ..,
PRIMARY                               _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
5
3 
2
I 00,000    80,000    60,000    40,00    20.000                  0       20,000    40.000    60.000    80,000              100,000
| I
NOTE: Fle for higher euotion ore totals.IBD46| 
I _                                                                                .F                                                       _ s  edu






0        s                                    /           ~~~~~~~~~~~B U l G  A  R I A  
_A GT    U   R   K   E   Y
RI S A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~G ~YUIU .. I
IONVAN                 IUA                                                                                                              I EIO   A  A ALGERIA -
10ISXAND                                                                                   0:4b>giilo  oiOJAXvtjj,*YA(U .R
U   25   AU     YR~~7   0 0 0
/gAlvDs ., tz IteeX )< 2 = - % X 2 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25                              YY   75  '00
AEGEAN ~    ~
IA~~~~~~~     ~I                           IAND  S Y                    >
GREREKEgS                                                                   <'    '
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                 ;
*    Ya;rej lt7iltter cTeolrip  -POIIR                     ,'s#ters,
*  .o Uohtglfte Mlt#tes per eqebert k i lnet#r        *-                                                              5/c.  h 
I~~~~~~~~Ov 40AR 9EWZ o'<8 
40A -44
-41-40
JANUARY  1970IBD21



