Documenit of
The World Bank
Report No 24796
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23 834)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS13.9 MILLION
TO THE DEMORATIC REPUBLIC OF
TIMOR-LESTE
FOR AN
EMERGENCY SCHOOL READINESS PROJECT
April 16, 2003
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of November 2000)
Currency Unit = U.S Dollar
US$ 1.00 = USS 1.00
USS I 00 = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID        Australian Agency for International Development
CMU           Construction Management Unit
ESRP          Emergency School Readiness Project
ETTA          East Timor Transitional Administration
FSQP          Fundamental School Quality Project
CNRT          National Council of Timorese Resistance
ECHO          European Community Humanitarian Organization
MECYS         Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth & Sports
NGO           Non-Government Organization
PMU           Project Management Unit
SSRP          School System Revitalization Program
TFET          Trust Fund for East Timor
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
UNTAET        United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
WHO           World Health Organization
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director    Xian Zhu
Sector Manager/Director   Emunanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alfonso F. de Guzman



TIMOR-LESTE
Emergency School Readiness Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                       I
2 Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3 Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5 Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                13
6 Sustainability                                                                    15
7 Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                     16
8 Lessons Leamed                                                                    17
9 Partner Comments                                                                  19
10 Additional Infornation                                                          20
Annex I Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 21
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                                 22
Annex 3 Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 24
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                                 25
Ainex 5 Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 26
Annex 6 Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonmance                                    27
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                                28






Project ID 1P070268                                      'Project Namle TP-Emergency School Readincss
Project
Teaml Leacler Alfonso F de Guzman                         TL Unit EASHD
ICR Ty)pe Core ICR                                        Report Date .4pril 16, 2003
1. Project Data
Vanie TP-Enicrgency School Readiness Project         L/CITF Number TF-23834
Countrv/Departinent TIMOR-LESTE                                         Regiotn  East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector Primary education (43%), Secondary education
(43%), Central government administrationi (14%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/4ctual
PCD.   05/16/2000                             Ejfi(ctive  07/01/2000        08/02/2000
Appraisal  05/27/2000                                MITR    12/26/2001         03/26/2001
Approval   06/21/2000                              Closinig  06/30/2001         06/30/2002
Borrower/Jlnpleinenting Agency,  EAST TIMOR/UNTAET (UN TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST
TIMOR)
Other Partners
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President       Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Mfanager     Xian Zhu                                  Klaus Rohland
Sector lManager      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                       Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR   Alfonso F de Guzman                       H Dean Nielsen and Robin S Horn
ICR Primary Atuthot  Kye Woo Lee
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory. S=Sattsfactory. U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unhkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negigible)
Outcome: S
Sustamnability L
Insnttutional Developnment Impact M
B1ank Pemfornmance S
Bortower PeiJbl-nance S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualitv at Ennty S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objective
The specific objectives of the project were the following (i) provide school-age children and youth with
opportunities for education at a basic operational level, that is, having safe school buildings with basic
furniture, textbooks and learning materials, and management support; (ii) promote social mobilization and
community participation for the creation of a modem school system; (iii) build up the capacity of school
system managers; and (iv) support policy development. The project was financed as a grant from donor
contnbutions to a Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) administered by the World Bank.
3 2 Revised Objective.
The objective of the project was not revised.
3 3 Original Components
1. Rebuilding school physical infrastructure with community participation
A. School rehabilitation and essential repairs;
B. Provision of basic furniture (desks, chairs, office fumiture, blackboards, etc); and
C. Construction of about 4 prototype schools.
2. Providing schools with teaching-learning matenals Acquisition and distnbution to pnmary and
junior secondary schools of student matenals and teachers' guides.
3  Social mobilization and comnmnications.
A. Identification of audiences and communication media; and
B Production of communication materials, carrying out of communication activities including
meetings and campaigns, and carrying out of evaluation activities.
4. Policy development includmg school mapping. Development and carrying out of school mapping,
and workshops, study tours, and preliminary studies related to development in education.
5. Implementation management support Strengthening of the Project Management Unit through
provision of technical assistance.
3 4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised fonnally. However, some components were changed during
implementation. For example, the rehabilitated classrooms and leaming materials were also made
available to senior secondary school students, and a portion of the furmiture requirement was supplied
by local carpentry shops.
3 5 Quality at Entry
Satisfactory. Project objectives were identified and formulated m a satisfactory manner, considering
that (i) the project implemented satisfactorily without any restructuring and (ii) the project was
designed and prepared under very difficult circumstances.
Project Objectives. The project was prepared and appraised under extremely unusual circumstances,
and there was no sovereign Borrower (UNTAET acted on behalf of a future sovereign government).
Although data were largely unavailable for analysis, nevertheless project objectives and contents were
satisfactorily conceived and defined The project objectives addressed the priority needs of a country
devastated in the post-Referendum violence of 1999 Many schools were burned to the ground or
otherwise badly damaged, and books and fumiture were all lost or destroyed. The project set out to
rebuild the system and at the same time lay the groundwork for establishing a modernized education
system The Grant Recipient (UNTAET) considered the development of human resources a prionty
need of this newly liberated country in the short and long run. Toward this goal, the Recipient
conceived that schooling of children in safe facilities with basic amenities was the most urgent first step
- 2 -



it could take, and all donors supported this priority measure. The project recognized this priority need
and addressed it urgently
Although there was no time to prepare a country assistance strategy, the project objectives were
selected in a strategic context There were several strategic plans and progarns The Joint Assessment
Mission Report of all donors in late 1999. the educational policy work developed by the National
Council of Timorese Resistance (CNRT), and the East Timor Educational Development Matrix for the
Transitional Period (2000-2) Within this strategic context, the Bank together with donors developed
the School System Revitalization Program (SSRP). The salient feature of this program was progressive
reconstruction phased with education sector capacity building, including education policy development.
The strategic context and phasing made the project objectives sound and appropnate to the emergency
situation of the education sector in East Timnor at that time.
SSRP as strategic framework did not specify a time span for each of the three phases Considering the
emergency conditions (destroyed buildings, no leaming matenals) and the lack of country partners with
whom the Bank could conduct conventional dialogue during project preparation, project objectives and
components were more clearly defined in tenns of buildings and furmiture, which were urgengly needed,
and less so for policies and programs to improve leaming achievement. The project did include
educational policy development as one of its objectives. However, a transitional governmental authority
made it impossible for the Bank and the Recipient to reach consensus on policy fonnulation issues
during preparation and appraisal The project, therefore, had to leave open such policy pnonties as the
organizational and functional structure of MECYS, a national education law, teacher training,
curriculum reform, production and distnbution of teaching-leaniing materials
Project Components. The project objectives and components could have had clearer linkages to
facilitate the attainiment of the project objectives. The objectives of the some project components, i.e,
the social mobilization and communications and support for policy development, were unclear, and
therefore their outputs were not well targeted. Instead of setting a stand-alone objective for it, social
mobilization and communications could have been better integrated with or dedicated to school
rehabilitation. Then the output could have been defined more concretely, for example, organization or
revitalization of parent associations, community education councils, or school rehabilitation
committees. Further, the objective of building up the capacity of school system management had no
clearly defined project components and could not therefore attain its objective. The understandilg
among donors at the tine was that this project component would be financed and carried out by other
donors. The project could have defined the content of this component, so that it could have been
monitored and evaluated during project implementation. In fact, the donors carred out very few
substantive activities in this area, insufficient to achieve the objective
Implementation Arrangements. The project was given the difficult mandate that all children should
be in rehabilitated classrooms by the beginning of the new school year (October 2000) - barely four
months from Bank management approval of the project. Unfortunately, the implementation
arrangements prescnbed for the project were more or less those for financing a regular (i.e.,
non-emergency) investment project, usually requiring detailed procurement assessments and planning,
document preparation and Bank reviews and approval, timely advertising, clearances of detailed
evaluation reports, formal contracting, documented payments processing, and techlitcal and financial
reporting Going through those conventional processes, it was unrealistic to expect that classrooms
would be rehabilitated within the tight deadlines of the mandate and in uncertain post-conflict
conditions (in fact, project completion was delayed by one year) but quite remarkable that so much was
accomplished in classroom rehabilitation.
-3-



Sinice other multilateral agencies like UNICEF, bilateral assistance agencies, and local and
international NGOs were already active in the country, turnkey- type contracts with them could have
been an implementation alternative. The Recipient could have invited implementation agents, including
NGOs, to organize or mobilize community education councils, parent-teacher associations, or local
contractors and carpenters to perform rehabilitation work on each school, as listed in the PMU
engineering survey, and be paid upon satisfactory completion of the tasks. The Recipient did explore
such a possibility but was informed that it was not possible for the Bank to fund the overhead element
of NGOs' costs for such an operation (which would have been very high, as it would involve hiring
international staff and importing vehicles) For its part, the Bank could have provided for special
procurement and disbursement procedures for accelerating the implementation of this emergency
project in a post-conflict situation.
At appraisal, several other assumptions on implementation were made, which were not realized by the
incoming govermment.
Double-shift school sessions: The number of classrooms which required rehabilitation was estimated
on the basis of an agreement with the Recipient that most rehabilitated classrooms would be used on a
double-shift basis. In fact the Government never implemented double-shifting, asserting it was
impractical in East Timor, and the rehabilitation program was prepared based on a single-shift basis.
At present, only a very few schools operate on a double shift basis.
Community participation: The project documents specified that communities would participate in
school infrastructure rehabilitation by co-signing the participation agreement with the school
representative and district education officers. This did not always take place during implementation
The social mobilization and communications component was not implemented soon enough to promote
such participation. As noted above, this component had only very general objectives and was orgamzed
late, when the project was well into implementation. For their part, the district education officers and
the PMU made no systematic efforts for community involvement in rehabilitation.
Procurement: Although this was the first time that the Recipient was required to carry out
procurement under the Bank's guidelines, no full-time procurement specialists familiar with Bank
procedures were recruited by the Recipient, nor did the Bank advise the Recipient of the value of such
recruitment. Consequently, the PMU leamed Bank procurement the hard way, through costly and
time-consuming trial and error, resulting in implementation delays. When the Recipient realized the
complexities of the procedures, it took steps to hire a full-time expert.
Financial management: Grant funds were to be channeled to each of the 13 districts and the school
level through a financial officer appointed by the PMU at the district level. However, it soon became
clear that there were not enough public accountants in East Timor. In the majority of cases the cash
funds were collected in person from the capital by head carpenters or headmasters (who were
co-signatories to the participation agreements) or, exceptionally, taken to the district capital by the
Distnct education Officer.
Monitoring and evaluation indicators were not well defined. For the school rehabilitation component,
targets were defined only in terms of classrooms, not enrollments. Although reliable data for the latter
were not available at the time, statistical projections based on a sample of schools and on
pre-independence statistics were used for setting project targets As it turned out, the impact of the
independence struggle and subsequent population migration and resettlement made the projections
-4 -



inaccurate. Without clear projections of er-ollmiienit, the procurement of furiiture, textbooks and
learning materials could not be programmed and monitored effectively.
Distribution of inaterials, a difficulty well known from the experience of many other operations, was
not foreseen As did other Bank-financed projects with textbooks and other materials, this project
encountered problems with effecting delivenes to schools, despite promises from other donors to
guarantee such delivery Fumiture delivenes faced similar problems However, the PAD did not lay
out altemative strategies for overcoming possible difficulties Instead of meeting the very tight
deadlines under emergency conditions, project distnbution was costlier and required more time than
expected.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Oitco,nelachievenient of objective
Satisfactory. In spite of the above-descnbed weaknesses in project design, the project objectives were
achieved satisfactorily Schools were open to all school age children by October 2000, the onginal
target date, although none of the classrooms had been rehabilitated by then. By October 2001,
however, as many as 2,780 classrooms in 535 schools had been rehabilitated, exceeding the appraisal
target by 32% A greater number of children than that before the emergency were attending schools
with basic furniture and teachling-learning matenals. Enrollments increased more sharply than
expected at appraisal, and only a few schools have double-shift sessions Almost half the enrolled
children at present are studying in overcrowded project rehabilitated classrooms, or even in unsafe
non-rehabilitated classrooms (the actual numbers in the latter categones are not yet known and it
should be noted also that some classrooms were rehabilitated by other donor agencies or NGOs). The
rehabilitation of classrooms was completed after a delay of one year, and the pilot schools after a delay
of one and one-half years. These delays, however, were due more to the unrealistic schedule prepared
at appraisal than to inefficiency of implementation Given the extremely difficult circumstances, this is
a highly satisfactory achievement.
The achievement of the other project objectives was less impressive Although resources were spent on
social mobilization and communications, no concrete results can be readily measured Communities
were not organized or mobilized for participation in the school rehabilitatioll program or for
improvements in school quality There were no systematic inputs for improving the capacity of the
school system managers under this or parallel assistance projects. It was an understanding among
donors that this objective was to be achieved through the use of resources provided by other assistance
agencies and projects; however, thle project did not have adequate mechanisms for monitoring the status
of those contnbutions. The educational policy development objective was achieved only through the
school mapping exercise; no other policy work was done.
4 2 Outputs by components
Comtponentt 1. Rebuilding of School Physical Infrastructure (US$8.04 million or 58% of total
costs)
A  School Rehabilitation:
Satisfactory. The actual rehabilitation outputs well exceeded the appraisal targets, although
completion was delayed one year However, the implementation process was remarkably shorter and
more efficient than in many simnilar emergency or post-conflict operations financed by the Bank in the
past. Had community participation been active and the school-community institutional capacity
developed, project implementation could have rated highly satisfactory.
-5-



School rehabilitation work was carned out with other inter-national organizations working in parallel
with the project, and the coordination was generally satisfactory. UNICEF provided roofing matenals
to all project schools (and to other schools as well) and, except in a small number of project schools,
actually saw to the installation of the roofs; ECHO (European Union) provided a total of USS7.9
million for NGOs to install latrines in the rehabilitated school sites; and AusAID financed the
international consultants who managed the Construction Management Unit (CMU) of the project.
Project achievement exceeded by 32% the appraisal target for the number of classrooms to be
constructed. Compared with the appraisal target of 2,100 classrooms to be rehabilitated in about 700
schools, a total of 2,780 classrooms in 535 schools were rehabilitated. However, this assessment
overstates project's impacts and needs qualification. First, the appraisal target of 2,100 classrooms
was based not on an actual survey but on the best available estimate of the rehabilitation requirement at
that time. From a sample of 12% of all schools, the appraisal team estimated that three classrooms per
school on average could accommodate all students in a catchment area if the schools operated in two
sessions per day. The Government, however, did not implement double shifting, considering it
impractical, due to local custom, climatic and school building conditions (afternoon temperatures are
unbearably high in tin-roofed classrooms), distances to school, and children's nutntional status. With
schools operating on a single shift, therefore, the number of classrooms requinng rehabilitation was in
fact much greater. Later in 2000, project engineers completed their survey of all school facilities in the
country. On the basis of available enrollment data, a single-shift assumption, and estimates of
accessibility of schools, the PMU deternined that a total of 3,012 classrooms in 716 schools required
rehabilitation, and the Recipient used these numbers as the new targets. Against these revised targets,
the project still achieved 92% of the classroom target, and 75% of the school target, leaving about 232
classrooms in 181 schools to be rehabilitated. The constraint to achieving the new targets fully was
financial resources.
Second, if the project output is assessed against current enrollments, then the project's 2,780
rehabilitated classrooms accommodate only 52% of the 234,537 primary and secondary school
students now in school - far below the appraisal target of 90%. If the current national average of 44
students per teacher is used as the average number of students per classroom, then about 112,217
students or 48% of current total enrollments are either crowded together in the project-rehabilitated
classrooms, or in other classrooms that survived the disturbances, or in classrooms rehabilitated by
non-project agencies, including other donors, military units, NGOs, and community self-help groups, or
in non-rehabilitated and unsafe classrooms. These students can be accommodated in safe educational
facilities if about 2,550 additional classrooms are rehabilitated or if about 92% of all
project-rehabilitated classrooms are used in two shifts daily Against these unexpected large
enrollments, the project could not accomnmodate all students attending school daily in a single session.
This low level of project outputs in comparison with the current enrollments can be explained. Upon
completion of the PMU survey of the rehabilitation requirement, a great number of refugees returned to
East Timor, demandmg more student places. Moreover, all students repeated the year in October
2000. Therefore, the total enrollment at pnmary education level, in particular the enrollment in the
first grade, increased sharply, requiring possibly double the number of estimated student places to be
served by the project. Further, perhaps as a result of the social mobilization and the improved
motivation of parents upon independence, a greater number of children were enrolled in schools, as
noted in the Bank's recent sector analysis Therefore, estimating the precise number of classrooms to
be rehabilitated or constructed in the future requires anm update of the school mapping survey or
conducting a new survey altogether.
-6 -



Compared with the appraisal targets, the number of classrooms actually rehabilitated was greater
(2,100 v. 2,780), but the number of schools rehabilitated was smaller (700 v 535). This outcome was
caused partly by the concentration of greater numbers of the returnee population and by the
Govemment's decision to select, for the locations of the classrooms to be rehabilitated, the relatively
larger schools. This decision favored economies of scale, easy access, and efficiency in carrying out
rehabilitation work, but may have adversely affected access to schooling of children of families living
in remote areas.
School rehabilitationi was to be camed out with the active support and participation of communities.
The rehabilitation subproject should have been carried out througlh a participation agreement between
district education officers and a school principal, co-signed by a community representative. The school
principal and the community representative should have mobilized skilled and unskilled workers of the
community for the school rehabilitation, paying some compensation for their work from the sub-grants
from the PMU. In some distncts, however, there were schools where it was the distnct education
officers, not the school principal or the community representative, who selected local carpenters or
skilled workers, the latter in turn hired unskilled workers. There was no specific promotion or
organization of school counicils or school rehabilitation committees as specified in the project
documents and operational manual. In some communities, where parent-teacher associations had been
active dunng Indonesian times, parents contributed their labor free of charge. The PMU or the district
education officers did not mobilize communities for school rehabilitation.
B. Provision of Sc/hool Furniture:
Satisfactory. The project has provided basic furniture (desk, chair, cupboard, and blackboard) for
2,000 teachers and about 130,000 students This latter number is far short of the appraisal target of
200,000 beneficiary students (being 100,000 for each of two shifts). However, the number exceeds the
estimated total number of students (109,120) currently accommodated in the rehabilitated classrooms
by more than 19%. Therefore, the furniture was made available for some non-rehabilitated classrooms
as well.
Nonetheless, there are acute needs for additional furmiture sets at the primary education level
nation-wide. The basic furniture provided under the project covers only about 85% of the current
enrollments at the senior secondary level, 116% at the junior secondary level, and 42% at the pnmary
level At project appraisal, it was noted that almost all schools needed rehabilitation of their
classrooms and furniture. Had the amount of money spent on wooden furniture been spent instead on
plastic furmiture (in accordance with the procurement plan made at appraisal), all students could have
been seated by the Project, even in single shifts.
For teachers, a total of 2,000 sets of furniture was provided, each set consisting of a desk, a chair, and
a cupboard. For pupils, a total of 72,484 sets of furniture were procured for a total of 129,968 student
seats. For the senior secondary level, 15,000 sets (single desk plus one chair) were provided for the
equivalent of 15,000 student seats. For students at the junior secondary level, 19,116 sets (double desk
plus two chairs) were provided for the equivalent of 38,232 seats. For the pnmary level, 38,368 sets
(double desk plus two chairs) were distributed for the equivalent of 76,736 student seats. In addition,
each classroom was provided with a blackboard by UNICEF
Durnng project preparation, the Recipient had envisaged the procurement of 100,000 plastic sets/seats
of pupil furniture inunediately, which were to be replaced with a better quality within five years later.
Under the assumption that schools would operate in double shift, the total nunmber of beneficiaries
would have been 200,000. But double-shifting was implemented only in a very hmited number of
- 7 -



schools in the main urban areas, particularly in Diii. During project implemerntation, this proposal
encountered resistance from district education authorities, other local stakeholders, and some of the
international donors who said that (i) plastic was not of high enough quality for their schools; and (n)
the project is an opportunity to generate income and employment for local industry, by having wooden
fumiture made by Timorese carpenters.
Consequently, a new plan was drawn up for the procurement of basic furmiture. All furniture would be
made of wood. Also, about 40% of the total furmture sets required would be procured domestically,
and the rest be imported from abroad. As such, the "emergency" nature of the project was
compromised since the new plan entailed higher costs and a delay in the procurement. If the nature of
the "emergency" is interpreted not only in educational terms, but also in economic terms, the new plan
struck a reasonable balance between the two interpretations. However, generation of local income and
employment was not the main objective of the project, and it is debatable whether this project was the
nght instrument for the generation of income and employment, and whether the change of the
procurement plan has yielded a higher rate of return if the current shortage of furniture at the primary
level is taken into account. Nonetheless, this change in plans stimulated the involvement of numerous
local carpenters and carpentry shops in various locations throughout the country in the effort to supply
their schools with fumiture, an important indirect benefit which needs to be weighed against any
distribution problems.
The local procurement of furniture resulted in delays and higher costs in three ways. First, technical
assessment and assistance to the local enterprises were needed. A small team of Australian consultants
funded by AusAID went out into the districts with Timorese counterparts to assess the capabilities of
local carpentries and to advise would-be suppliers on how to set up their businesses formally. They
were trained in everything from how to manufacture the fumiture on the basis of a UNESCO furmiture
design to how to open a bank account. Through this exercise, a significant amount of technical
assistance and capacity building was provided.
Second, importation of furniture had to be done after the completion of the national bidding, since the
capacity of the local suppliers was uncertain When training of potential local suppliers was complete,
tenders were issued for a national bidding, eleven suppliers were selected, and orders were placed.
Only when this process was concluded could the international bidding for the balance of the furniture
(60%) be instigated. This sequential procurement delayed the international bidding for the rest of
fumiture by at least six months, and ultimately in many cases there were children sitting on classroom
floors for months after the classroom itself had been rehabilitated.
Third, procurement of the local furniture created further problems with respect to quality and delivery.
Materials for the manufacturing of furniture had to be procured by the suppliers' association and made
available to the individual local suppliers. Even when the quality of furniture supplied was
unsatisfactory, it was not feasible to get it remade since the suppliers did not have spare materials. For
easy compliance by the local suppliers, only one size of furniture was specified for primary level
students, whuch may have been inappropriate to be used by all six primary grades. Delivery of the
furniture from Dili to the district level was much more difficult and expensive than it would have been
for plastic furniture. Delivery from the district level to school in flat-pack form and assembly at the
school had to be done on wages paid to community people ($2 50 per item). In some instances the
Project resorted to the help of the US Marines for delivery by helicopter to remote schools. The former
AusAID consultants were hired by the PMU to assist and train people in assembly of the furniture,
which was somewhat complex. Often, in their enthusiasm, the recipients would proceed with assembly
of the furmiture before the ESRP representatives had come around to show them how to do it. This led
-8 -



to some instances of questionable quality arising after the goods had left the carpenters' workshops
Toward the end of project implementation, using savings from other components, a final order was
placed for 18,000 pupil sets (13,000 desk and double-seaters and 5,000 desk and single-seaters). The
project closing date was extended to allow for delivery of this shipment, procured through international
bidding.
C. Construictioni of Prototype Schools:
Satisfactory. Compared with the appraisal target of four prototype schools (two primary and two
junior secondary schools), five schools were constructed (two primary and three junior secondary
schools). Construction was less expensive than expected. Savings from this and from classroom
rehabilitation allowed for the construction of a fifth prototype. By project closing date, all five
prototype schools had fumiture and books, and were in use.
Construction was much delayed for two reasons. FLrst, there was a problem with land ownership,
which had been very ill-defined in Timor since 1999. With the departure of the Indonesians, parties
who had been dispossessed in 1975 restated claims to their land. IUNTAET did not effectively address
the mnadequacy of land laws of the country Only in December 2000 was confirmation of ownership by
the Education Division obtained for in the sites of the first four prototypes, in Baucau, Maliana,
Manatuto, and Same.
Second. the appraised objectives of this component were inconlsistent with the expectations of CNRT
leaders and Timorese architects. One of the original ideas behind the construction of prototype schools
was to gauge the ability of local craftsmen to build simple but adequate schools, and to ascertain, for
planning purposes, the likely future costs of such projects In Indonesian times (1975-99) the
construction industry was, to a large extent, non-Timorese. With the departure of the Indonesians, the
skills base was severely affected. It was intended that the work on the two rural schools be given to
small local contractors and that on two urban schools to the winner of international bidding to work
with local contractors. The results would be compared and would guide future decision-making and
budgeting. To the Timorese architects and leaders, however, the idea of providing sinple schools,
similar in style and standard to those built by the Indonesians, was unacceptable. But their desire for
schools of better architectural design and construction quality was beyond the capability of local
craftsmen and beyond the appraised budget of the project. (The cost per student place reached US$753
for the primary prototype and USS I,184 for the junior secondary prototype.) The mismatch of
expectations led to fnction between project and Timorese architects and resulted in delay A
compromise was agreed but satisfied the parties only partially. Nevertheless, the schools were built
and served as a useful basis for developing new designs for the higher-quality schools of the follow-on
second education project (FSQP).
Comnponent 2. Providing Learning Materials and Teacher Guides (US$3.20 million or 23% of total
costs):
Satisfactory. Despite delays in distnbution, the whole process of textbook procurement and
distribution was handled efficiently and successfully in a difficult, post-conflict environment. Over two
million (2,063,517) books were distnbuted to schools This compnsed textbooks, workbooks and
teacher's guides for Portuguese language instruction (273,000 in total) for students in grades 1-2 and
senior secondary students, picture books (216,000) for grade I students, and textbooks on vanous
subjects through the medium of Bahasa Indonesia (1,575,000) for students in all 12 grades. The
appraisal team expected that books would be distributed to 80% of total students by October 31, 2000
and 95% of total students by the project completion. The actual percentage at completion was
estimated at over 100% for various subject books in Bahasa Indonesia; 100% for grades 1-2 in
-9-



Portuguese language books, and 90% for the picture books for grade I students (four volumes for each
student). Although all books were delivered to students later than the school opening date of October
2000, the quantity and quality of books met the appraisal targets satisfactonly. However, there seem
to be problems with books for certain subjects. No books were ordered for the instruction of official
languages (Portuguese and Tetum), except for Portuguese books for grades 1-2 and senior secondary
students, there were no books for social science (history and geography) at the junior and senior
secondary levels.
The procurement of textbooks in late 2000 was successful. In accordance with the plan set out at
appraisal, a number of Indonesian textbook titles which had been in use in schools were selected by
committees of teachers, under the guidance of a consultant. The consultant then visited Indonesia to
arrange for publishers to change the covers (to show East Timorese children), add a preface by the
national leader Xanana Gusmao (since elected President), and remove some text inappropriate to East
Timor. The books were intended for use during the two-year transitional penod However, the PMU
soon realized that there would be severe shortages of books, especially for lower grades, as number of
returning refugees increased sharply and there were two cohorts of first grade students (all students in
all grades repeated the same grade in 2000). An additional order equal to 50% of the first order was
placed in February 2001 and received in time for school opening of that second school year
The procurement of Portuguese language instruction books was delayed. As the official language for
instruction had not yet been formalized, the Bank would not authonze procurement without basis in
policy. A subsequent formulation of an operational policy by the UNTAET Education Division (later
the Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports-MECYS) that the books would be used for
instruction in Portuguese as a foreign language addressed the Bank's concern.
The procurement of the picture books for the grade I purchased from Finland, was also delayed.
Confusion over the security bond and advance payment delayed the shipment, which was further
delayed in transit The books arrived in early Apnl 2001, seven months after contract signing. Since
the grade I students had already started using the Portuguese language instruction books donated by
the governnent of Portugal, the picture books were held in stock and distributed in time for the
following school year, 2001-2.
Distribution problems delayed the delivery of books further. The decision to use voluntary community,
donor, and NGO support to distribute books, rather than engage freight forwarding companies, created
difficulties in organizing deliveries, which resulted in delays.
Component 3. Social Mobilization and Communications (US$0.10 million or 0.7 % of total costs)
A. Identification of audiences and communication media:
Unsatisfactory. The audiences identified by the project were teachers, public administrators, parents,
and students across the nation. Although this component had an implementation plan, the
communications program as implemented showed little strategic focus for the different audiences.
Some activities were directed at the general public which was assumed to have television, newspapers,
and videotapes. The project reports had no information as to how many and what kinds of people were
reached with the different means of communication employed for reaching them.
B Communications Activities:
Unsatisfactory. Matenals informing the public about the project were produced, and various
comrnmunmcations activities were carried out. The materials produced included formal reports, printed
press releases, video tapes, promotional clips and spot messages for TV and radio, and brochures in
-10 -



four different languages. The materials covered a wide range of subjects, from education as the
foundation of the new nation to school mainiteniance and violence in school However, the scarce
resources were spread thinly, putting into question the effectiveness or impact of each activity. No
formal evaluation assessed whether the communication activities achieved the specific objectives of the
component: (i) to influence positively the perceptions, attitudes and behavior of local leaders, teachers,
principals, parents, and students, in order to revitalize the school system; and (n) to encourage
participation in the project through dissemination of information on project rationale, community
benefits, and project implementation strategies.
Initially this component was assigned to an UNTAET education specialist who, also in charge of the
textbook warehouse and distnbution, could not devote the attention that the component needed No
significant activities were camed out until Apnl 2001 when a small media team was established in the
MECYS, with a unit head, two liaison officers and one camera-person. (The unit now depends on the
resources of other units of the sector at the central level and of the distnct level ) With resources
known to be limited, the strategic identification of audiences, media, subjects, and activities was
needed. Targeting, for example, the organization of parent-teacher associations, school councils, or
rehabilitation committees, or their mobilization for school rehabilitation and distribution of fumiture
and leaming materials, could have had a more measurable impact on the perception, attitude, and
behavior of parents, teachers and coimnunity leaders.
Component 4. Supportfor Policy Development (US$0.48 mtillion or 3.5% of total costs):
Unsatisfactory. The only output of this component was the school mapping carried out during the
penod May through September 2001 by a contractor. The mapping covered almost 100% of school
facilities, both operational and non-operational.
Drawing of school maps and collection of school data were completed by the consultants who hired
local education workers, and the results were submitted to the Education Division. The informnation is
in Portuguese with a summary in English. The maps were the best demographic snapshot of the time,
but since the mapping was conducted during a penod of flux, with many refugees still retuming to the
country, the data gathered could now be obsolete and its usefulness limited to serving as bases for
building a future information system In retrospect, the consultants could have been asked to work
closely with the PMU engineers who were surveying school facilities at about the same time. The
collaboration would have made the identification of schools to be rehabilitated more efficient and more
credible The PMU staff could have also been trained in the school mapping technology, enough to
sustain the exercise into the future.
In addition to the school maps and data, the consultants also made recommendations on the future of
education and education management in the country. However, these recommrendations were less
useful. The recommendations for the number of schools to be constructed or upgraded in the
immediate future were overly ambitious in termns of costs and resources involved However, the
mapping guided the formulation of the follow-on project (FSQP), serving as the basis to establish the
priority schools to be targeted.
Besides the school mapping, this component included development and carrying out of workshops,
study tours, and preliminary studies, but none of these was even attempted, as there was no time to
carry them out. However, during the transition period, the Recipient was expected to carry out study
tours and some preliminary studies to facilitate the new government's strengtheniing of institutional and
human capacities and the launch of new educational policies and programs. These expectations were
not met at all. The PM1J could have taken initiative to hire international experts to hold workshops and
- 1 1 -



help prepare proposals for immediate national education agenda such as a national education law, an
organizational structure and staffing plan for the envisioned education ministry, in-service teacher
training plans and programs, national language policies and programs, and curriculum development
strategies. Neglect of these educational agenda could be partly due to the absence of educators from
the PMU, who would otherwise have liaised with the rest of the education sector for the needed policy
work.
Component 5. Management and Implementation Support (US$2.07 million or 14.9% of total
costs):
Satisfactory. Initially, all the key PMU staff (except the finance officer, project manager, and the
Construction Management Sub-Unit: CMU) were UNTAET Education Division staff concurrently
working for the project. This did not pose serious problems and had advantages such as coordination
between the Division of Education and the PMU. However, full-time attention, particularly at the
critical start-up phase, could not be given to the project and may have contributed to delay in meeting
effectiveness conditions.
The PMU was strengthened through teclnical assistance Staffed by experienced mternational
consultants, the CMU managed architectural and engineering designs, construction supervision, and
procurement of construction and learning matenals and school fumiture. These consultants also
trained a group of local architects and engineers not only on-the-job, but also through organized formal
training courses and seminars. International consultants of the CMU were disengaged in Apnl 2001,
and the smooth transition of the CMU to the local staff was the result of the training and technical
assistance provided by the consultants. The other key posts of the PMU (project director, finance
officer, and procurement officer) were also staffed by international consultants. Satisfactory attainment
of project outputs owed to the quality and dedication of the strengthened PMU staff.
4 3 Net Present Value/Econonuc rate of return
N/A
4 4 Financial rate of return
N/A
4 5 Institutional development impact
Modest. Although the mainstay of the project was rehabilitation of school buildings, and the provision
of furniture and learning matenals, the project made modest institutional development impact on
various parts of the education sector. Particularly noticeable in this regard are the management of
school physical infrastructure, mobilization of the community in the distribution of school fumiture and
learning materials, and the production and management of local carpentry shops, school management
and leaming matenals selection, and procurement capacity at the Education Division.
The PM-U, in particular the CMU, hired more than 20 local engineers and architects who were trained
formally and informally by the international consultants in construction design, procurement,
management, and supervision of works. These local engineers formed the core of the PMU of this
project and from April 2001 to closure, worked without the supervision of international consultants.
Although communities did not participate actively in classroom rehabilitation, they participated in the
distribution and assembly of fumiture and learming materials from the district education office to their
schools. Although they were paid for the work, a new working relationship and collaborative practice
had developed dunng project implementation. In many communities, parent-teacher association had
- 12 -



existed before the project, but they were not mobilized or did not collaborate in school affairs, except to
make financial contributionis (usually USSI per month). This project provided an opportunity to
revitalize some of those associations to develop new relationships between schools and their
commuunities.
Because of the government decision to procure some school fuirnture fiom local carpentry shops, and
the subsequent technical assistance provided to those slhops by inteniational consultants, the production
and business management capacities of local carpentry shops improved substantially
Through this project, MECYS also improved its management capacity In particular, the district
education offices were the center of school rehabilitation works, selecting the schools to be
rehabilitated, appointing the teacher representative and local carpenters or repair persons for their
participation and subcontract agreements, supervising the work, and paying contractors. Through
these functions, the district education offices must have improved their school management capacities
Likewise, MECYS improved its capacity to select and procure appropriate books
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outsicle the control of government or implenientitig agency
A  Increased enrollments. The project was faced with a fluid situation in terms of the number of
returning refugees, residents in each school catchmnent area, and the enrollments. The PM[J engineers,
district educational officers, and school principals did not have adequate resources to keep up with the
influx of returning refugees and movements of people between towns and villages, and adjust their plan
for physical infrastructure rehabilitation accordingly. Consequently, although the number of
classrooms rehabilitated under the project was much greater than those planned at appraisal, they are
far short of the current demand.
B  Governance arrangements. The CNRT was consulted during appraisal and negotiations as a
major stakeholder However, when the Interim National Educational Authority and the education unit
of the East Timor Transition Administration (ETTA) were established, they began to exercise a strong
voice with regard to the project Cabinet-level officials, citing urgent national needs, occasionally
changed the policies already agreed upon between the Recipient (UNTAET) and the Grant
Adminiistrator (the World Bank). These changes (for example, in the procurement of school furmiture,
selection of schools to be rehabilitated and teachers to be appointed) confounded the Bank and the
donors, and often caused delays in reaching agreement and implementation. Moreover, the PMU had to
go through the approval and review processes of the two entities, UNTAET and ETTA, in particular
on procurement matters. But UNTAET delegated educational matters to ETTA, which could not
substitute UNTAET legally. Sorting out the resulting differences between the Bank and the Recipient
took time, and the relationships were not conducive to efficient implementation under emergency
conditions. The quality and extent of the consultations with the major stakeholders at appraisal and
negotiations were sometimes questionable.
C. Wlorld Bank intervention. Imntially, the Bank was not well organized to help the Recipient to meet
its emergency mandate The two co-task managers and other staff from Headquarters, those of the
resident mission in Dili, and expatriate consultants often did not coordinate well, resulting in confusion
on the part of the Recipient about lines of communication, policies, and decisions. With the PMU not
yet familiar with Bank procedures, especially in procurement, the Bank's actions focused more on
direct implementation than on facilitation, training, and provision of technical assistance. This created
- 13 -



confusion and occasionally caused resentment on the part of the Recipient, and delays. The situation
calmed considerably when schools opened, and the working relationship with the Recipient improved
when the task team arranged for greater management support from the resident mission.
D. Donor coordiniation. Since the financial resources of the project came from donors, they
justifiably expected periodic briefings on sectoral developments as well as on project progress.
Updating donors' sectoral knowledge, coordinating with their individual aid programs, and holding
joint donor meetings were time-intensive for both the Bank and the Recipient. Greater resources
devoted to coordinative efforts could have more adequately addressed donors' queries with regard to
progress in project implementation and could have provided the implementation team the needed time
for focused project management.
E. CMU composition. Although the PMU had four sub-units, the core was the construction
management sub-unit (CMU), which was managed by an international architectural consulting firm
financed by the Australian assistance agency (AusAID). Unfamiliar with Bank requirements and
procedures, especially in procurement, the contracted firm occasionally undertook implementive actions
which appeared independent of the PMU, blurring lines of responsibility and accountability. These
unclear working relationships between the firm and the PMU and between the CMU and its
stakeholders were partly responsible for the slow pace of implementation at the beginning.
5.2 Factors generallv suhbject to government control.
A. Double-shift school session. The Recipient considered that double shift was impractical in East
Timor for vanous reasons, and therefore, the number of classrooms to be rehabilitated and teachers to
be appointed had to be increased. Had the double shift system been maintained, the project could have
been completed earlier
B. Community participation. The Recipient did not make any specific efforts to organize or mobilize
the community to participate in the implementation of the classroom rehabilitation component. Rather,
it focused on the implementation of the social mobilization and communications component, taking a
more general approach. As a result, there was neither obvious linkage between the two project
components nor noticeable acceleration in project implementation as might have been expected.
5 3 Factors generallv subject to implementing agency control
The composition of the PMU delayed the project implementation. At the beginning, the PMU did not
have a full-time educator, procurement specialist, and financial management specialist, and the
UJNTAET staff served the PMIU on a part-time basis. This caused delays in implementation, in
particular at start-up.
5 4 Costs and financing
The total project cost was the same as the appraisal estimate at USS13.9 million. The total cost was
financed entirely from the grant, and there was no counterpart fund provided by the Recipient.
Although there was parallel financing by UNICEF (for roofing of all rehabilitated classrooms),
AusAID (for the CMU until Apnl 2001) and ECHO (for latnnes at rehabilitated schools), there was no
joint financing.
By project component, the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure accounted for a smaller portion of
the total cost than the appraisal estimate (58% of the total cost, compared with the appraisal estimate
of 63%). On the other hand, the management and implementation support component accounted for a
greater portion of the total cost than at appraisal (15% of the total cost, compared with the appraisal
- 14 -



estimate of 9%). The rehabilitation component was less costly mainly because the sub-grants to
contractors and unskilled workers and the cost of building materials were lower thanl expected. The
management and mnplementation support component's expenditures were higher thani expected, since
foreign consultants were contracted for an extended penod, and full-time expatriates were hired for
financial management and procurement specialist posts. Other components incurred more or less the
same amounts as estimated at appraisal. Savings in classroom rehabilitation were applied to the
rehabilitation of an increased number of classrooms, procurement of more and furniture sets, and
construction of one additional prototype school.
The project cost by the method of procurement did not differ much from the appraisal estimate. The
limited national bidding for the purchase of furniture was the major variation.
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationalefor sustainability rating
Likely. The rehabilitated physical infrastructure, the major part of the project, is likely to continue
functioning reasonably well in the short run. In the mediumn term, however, concems for sustainability
can arise from uncertainties in the provision of budgets for maintenance and the appointment of a
sufficient number of teachers. The schools were rehabilitated at a basic, minimum level and would
require continuous mainteniance and upgrading. However, each school does not have an assigned
budget, let alone maintenance budgets. Since communities were not organized for school rehabilitation
under this project, community organizations would not take up maintenance responsibilities (In
Indonesian times, PTAs did not usually malitain schools) District education offices are allocated with
a small amount of discretionary budgets, which hardly meet the maintenance needs of all schools in the
district. Ultimately, all schools depend directly on a decision of MECYS in Dili. Delays in
rehabilitation or construction of more classrooms and appointment of more teachers would prolong the
overcrowding in many classrooms and would accelerate the need for maintenance
The pilot schools, especially the junior secondary schools, were intended to serve as resource schools
for both primary and junior secondary schools in the sub-district Although the schools have provided
useful infonrnation on the feasibility of constructing schools by local architects and contractors, their
educational objectives have not yet been implemented. The laboratory and multi-purpose rooms are not
used for an enhanced quality education program as intended at appraisal Instead, they are used as
regular classrooms because many more students than expected are now enrolled. The PM`U, which had
been staffed with mainly engineers and architects, procurement specialists, and accountants, did not
have the educators who could initiate and coordinate planning for an enhanced quality educational
program possible in the prototype school facilities. As such, the sustainability of these pilot schools is
yet uncertain.
Most teaching-learning materials distributed are in Bahasa Indonesia, an intended transitory measure
for about two years. However, those books are insufficient in quantity, and there is no arrangement to
replenish any books lost or mutilated each year. With technical assistance from donors, MECYS
should be able to carry out revisions of the current cumcula, prepare some teaching-learning materials,
and import other materials
The school maps and data have become obsolete and will need to be updated. With funds provided by
the Government of Japan, UNICEF has provided computers and is prepanng to introduce software to
enable statistics to be gathered and accessed initially centrally, and eventually at district level.
- 15 -



6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operationy
Highly likely Most local PMU staff members have already been transferred to continue working as
members of the PMNU for the second education project, FSQP. Expatriate staff contracted under the
project (e.g, accountant, and procurement specialist) will either be reappointed or replaced by other
international consultants through competitive selection processes.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory The Bank performed in a responsive manner to meet the emergency needs of the
Recipient. The Bank appointed two co-task managers to help prepare and appraise the project in an
extremely short period of time It made good use of local expertise by hinng a group of local engineers
and architects in addition to an international civil works consulting firm. It also involved the
representatives of the donors and the major stakeholders in the process of the project preparation and
appraisal, building up an effective partnership with them, especially UNICEF which had already been
operating m the country ahead of the Bank. The Bank team worked in an extremely difficult and
vulnerable situation, without the benefit of the availability of data for analysis.
With hindsight, however, the Bank should have included a civil works or school facility specialist in the
initial mission The Bank could also have taken an unusual project approach commensurate with the
emergency situation, rather than taking the usual specific investment project approach (see Section 3 5-
Quality at Entry).
In addition, although the Bank rightly gave emphasis to the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure for
an emergency project, it also prepared the ground for the establishment of a modem education system
for the new country. The Bank struck the right balance between the two objectives. However, the
Bank could have given more specificity to the educational policies to be developed while the
educational facilities were being rehabilitated.
7 2 Supervision
Bank performance at supervision was mixed. At the initial stage of project implemnentation, the Bank
could have assumed the greater role of facilitator and capacity-builder, in addition to its responsibilities
as supervisor of procurement and other fiduciary matters. The Bank was not very helpful in meeting
the effectiveness conditions. It could have provided some sample operational manuals used by other
projects in similar situations in the past and could have expressed a much better understanding of the
special circumstances of the Interim Educational Authority. Likewise, the Bank should have provided
the Recipient with the standard bidding documents and draft contracts in advance.
There were too many actors representing the Bank without a clear line of communication and
coordination among Bank staff and between the Bank and the PNMU. Partly because of pressures from
donors, Bank staff often became directly involved in Implementation activities themselves, taking
actions on behalf of the PMU, rather than coaching and advising the PMU.
After a turbulent start-up, Bank Headquarters and Resident Mission staff realigned their actions in
working with the first- time grant Recipient, which was acting on behalf of a future, sovereign state
The Bank delegated more authonty to the Resident Mission in the review of PMU proposals, although
formal approvals (no-objection letters) had to be obtained from the Headquarter-based task team leader
- 16 -



after receipt of all relevant documents The authonty could have been formally delegated to the field
missioni with specified thresholds and ceilings.
In addition to the usual supervision activities, Bank missions, together with the Resident Mission,
regularly carried out sector analyses and aid coordination meetings, called joint donors sector
assessment missions. These activities took up a large part of the Banik supervision time, althouglh the
donors were appreciative of Bank perfonnance and leadership. Extra budgetary resources should have
been allocated for those joint donor sector assessments.
7 3 Overall Bank perforniance
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation
Satisfactory. Despite the predicament, the Recipient perfonned well. It actively participated in the
preparation of the project with the donors and the World Bank teams. In particular, the engineers hired
by the World Bank missionis made a sample survey of the physical infrastructure situation around the
country, and they became the core staff of the PMU later, completing the physical survey of all
schools.
7 5 Govertnmenit znpleementation performnance
Satisfactory. The Government was committed to the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure under
ambitious timetable. It was less committed and organized to mobilizing comimiunities and developing
educational policies for the medium tenn.
7 6 Itnple,nentung Agency
Satisfactory. The PMU perfonned well under very difficult circumstances In particular, it met
physical relhabilitation goals and targets in excess of appraisal targets, owing greatly to the quick and
innovative response of the international consultants of the CMU in the early implementation stage
However, it did not have full-time financial specialists, procurement specialists, and educators, and
consequently suffered from delays Also, the project components other than physical rehabilitation
were relatively neglected
The PMUIJ also owes to the above international consultants the successful Tirnorization, training, and
supervision of the CMU. The current project manager (deputy director of the PMU) is East Timorese,
and the institutional capacity of the PMU has been adequately strengthened. The staffing of the PMU,
however, has to be balanced by equally qualified East Timorese educators, possibly from the line
departments of MECYS, for further institutional development
7.7 Overall Borrowver perjbrmiance
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
A. Procedures for post-conflict enrergencies are needed. The Bank's current nonns and procedures
for a conventional specific investment operation were ineffective in meeting the needs of a post-conflict
country rapidly, as demonstrated in this project. This would argue for the use of Bank's emergency
procedures (e.g., those in Operational Directive 8.50, BP2 30) However, even these are inadequate for
a post conflict scenano such as this one of near-total devastation, a situation very different from the
kinds of natural disaster for which OD8 50 was created.
- 17 -



B Both physical and institutional comzponents are needed. In a post-conflict emergency, it is
lmportant that the Bank project design strike the nght balance between the rehabilitation of physical
infrastructure and the development of policies for public services such as education Although the
former will take precedence and a higher prionty in the short run, mstitutional development over the
medium term should not be neglected. The need for the latter constitutes the difference between a
natural disaster emergency and a post-conflict emergency (Sections 3.5 and 4.2).
C. Social mobilization and communications interventions should be targeted. The broad objective
of social mobilization and communications for the general audience did not lead to concrete results, and
their effects could not be measured easily. It would have been better if the campaigns had specific
objectives focused on selected audiences, using media selected for the purpose. For example, the
organization of community school councils or school rehabilitation committees for participation in
classroom rehabilitation could have been the objective, rural communities the target audience, and
individual promoters hired on contract basis the delivery medium (Sections 3.5 and 4.2).
D. Monitoring and evaluation are needed, even in emergency operations. Monitoring and
evaluation schemes and indicators could have proved useful for redirecting project implementation.
The project design included innovative ideas requiring improvisation dunng implementation. However,
there was neither effective feedback-gathefing on the effectiveness of those ideas under project
implementation nor the effects of those ideas after project completion (Section 3.5).
E. Materials distribution is problemtatic and must be carefully prepared. In ensuring that books
and furniture arrive complete and on time at intended schools, this project confronted the very same
problems of many Bank-financed projects with learning materials components. Any appraisal of
projects involving textbook or furniture provision should pay special attention to arrangements for
distribution, when possible requinng pilot-testing of proposed mechanisms (Section 4.2).
F. In an emergency, exclusively selecting local suppliers without competition may not necessarily
bring optimum results. In this project, locally supplied furniture was found not necessarily of better
quality or acquired at prices advantageous to the Government. The prices were remarkably similar
between imported and locally supplied furniture. However, some indirect costs were incurred in
connection with the locally supplied furniture in terms of quality, delivery, technical assistance, and
timeliness. It is debatable whether limiting competition and purchasing furniture locally resulted in a
higher rate of return to the Recipient (Section 4.2).
G  The management of education projects, even those mostly concerned with construction, should
include educators. The PMUJ was staffed mainly with engineers and architects for managing the
rehabilitation of physical infrastructure but lacked full-time educators. This imbalance in staffing
resulted in lags in the development of the educational components of the project, i.e., education
policy-making and system management. While buildings were being put in place, educational
prograns were not, especially in the areas of organizational structure of MECYS, school management;
curriculum fortnulation and teacher training, and leaming materials distnbution, replenishment, and
future development.
H. The quality and intensity of consultation with major stakeholders are important particularly in
a post-conflict situation, and provisionsfor some changes in their policies should be made in
project design and schedule. Although the pnncipal stakeholders of the project were consulted during
project preparation and negotiations, the implementation of the project was still plagued by the
- 18 -



proposals, changes, objections, and other intervenitions of the major stakeholder, CNRT, especially
when its leaders became the policy-makers of the government. The point of stakeholder engagement
for timeliness of intervention is particularly important in post-conflict situations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borr-ower/implemiienting agency
Bank support and performance have generally been good. The Bank was pro-active in mobilising the
agreement even before the Grant Agreement was signed, getting the architecture/ engineenng
consultancy firm engaged in preliminary studies. It would have been even better had there been earlier
inclusion of all stakeholders (in particular the Department of Social Affairs of UNTAET) in planning,
so they were not presented with a fait accompli.
I   Infoimal interference:
In the earlier stages of the project various World Bank officers approached the CMU and other units
within the ESRP in an ad hoc and informal mauner. Although well intentioned, at times this caused
confusion, disruption and delays to some of the activities of the CMU. For instance, consultants would
come to the ESRP, speaking Indoniesian to local engineers who treated their comments as orders Later,
when the 'order' had been followed and confusion caused, the consultant would inform the Project
Director that no order had been issued - merely a suggestion proffered The Bank does now respect the
project's internal lines of communication.
ii. Micro-management
The Bank had a tendency to engage in well-meaning but misguided attempts to assist by inappropnate
direct involvement. For example, the CMU was invited to attend a meeting with NGOs and UN
military, whom the Bank had, unrequested by the CMU, approached for assistance with delivery of
materials to remoter schools. The offers available could not be relied upon (being of the nature of
'unless we have something more important to do') and so were, in practice, useless. On another
occasion, quite inappropriately, the Bank invited UN military to provide certification of satisfactory
completion of rehabilitation works - this, again, was not viable.
iii. Poor handling of pressure from donors.
The following pattern of events occurred more than once-
The donors would apply pressure on the Bank regarding slow progress.
The Bank would send officers into the ESRP to accelerate progress.
The Bank would get involved in micro-management of the Project.
Particularly during the early stages of implementation, pressure from the donors to show progress led
to "crisis" meetings and poorly conceived "emergency" measures of limited impact and problematic
execution, the overall effect of which was to slow progress. The Bank ought to have shielded and
defended the Project from the panic of the donors. It should have admitted to donors when the Bank's
own rules that are causing/exacerbating non-performance. Adding "pressure" (rather than resources)
accomplishes little.
The output indicators were set at too high a level so that, for instance, until there were textbooks in the
- 19-



schools, the output for textbooks was gauged to be zero Thus no progress was reported to donors at
such stages as selection of books, printing of books, shipment/ arnval of books, or delivery of books to
district level. Whilst this was intentional, to force a focus on actual benefit to education, it served to
add unnecessary and distracting donor pressure to an already high pressure task. Smaller incremental
targets ought to have been set, by which to reassure donors that progress was being made.
The Bank wasted project personnel time asking for too many progress reports and infomnation (under
pressure from donors) in an uncoordinated manner. At times it seemed that more staff time went into
preparing progress reports than went into making progress. The situation improved significantly at the
start of 2001 when a Dih-based officer stepped in to deal with the Project on a daily basis, and
instituted more effective coordination mechanisms. The fact that this officer was a procurement
specialist also assisted greatly in what had hitherto been a most troublesome field.
Fumiture. The effect on village economies of the decision to procure furniture locally should not be
underestimated. There were significant positive consequences and the Ministry is in no doubt that,
looking at the wider picture, the 'rate of retum' was indeed higher than would have been achieved by
the faster purchase of a larger quantity of foreign-manufactured furniture
Social Mobilisation: Although the results of the Social Mobilisation section were not measured (and
were, perhaps, not measurable), it does not necessarily follow that they were non-existent. On the
contrary, the media unit acted successfully as the publicity office for all Ministry activities and was
never stated (or intended) to be restricted to any component(s) of the ESRP.
Support for policy development: The Recipient very much viewed policy development as a Ministry
matter not falling within the responsibilities of the project. TFET was seen as primanly a fund for
physical infrastructure. This component is, however, being reviewed by the FSQP, under which more
support will be given to strengthen the Ministry.
Finally, it must be clearly stated that the Task Manager provided continuous and valuable support,
especially in the middle and latter stages of the Project. We express our gratitude to him and appreciate
the opportunity to continue working with him in the follow-on Fundamental School Quality Project.
(b) Cofinanciers.
N/A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/pri vate sector).
N/A.
10. Additional Information
ICR Mission Dates: October 10-25, 2002
Members:                 Kye Woo Lee, Consultant, Economist
Nigel Wakeham, Consultant, Architect
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Provide functioning emergency school  50% by October 31, 2000             52% of the enrollment of primary and
meeting basic operabonal level cnteria to  90% by project completion      secondary schools at completion
75% of East Timorese children wishing to
enroll
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1 Maximum number of schools raised to  700 schools with 2,100 classrooms  535 schools with 2,780 classrooms at
basic operational level by October 2000                                   completion
1 1 Community repair and roofing for
damaged or detenorated school buildings
1 2 Emergency furniture Off-shetf
purchase of plastic chairs and desks at low  100,000 seats for 200,000 students on 2  72,484 sets for 129g968 seats on 1 shift
prices                               shifts
1 3 Emergency textbooks bought from
Indonesian publishers for 160,000 students  100% of 160.000 students      100% of 234,537 students
1 4 Emergency picture books bought for 1 st                               Books for 57,000 students out of 60,000
grade students                                                            students enrolled
1 5 Prototype schools                4 schools 2 primary, 2 junior secondary  5 schools 2 pnmary, 3 junior secondary
2 Basic operational furniture provided to all
schools
2 1 All students have desks and chairs  100% of 160,000 students          85% of senior secondary, 116% of junior
secondary, 45% of pnmary students
2 2 All teachers have desks, chairs, and  5,000 teachers                  2,000 teachers
cupboard
2 3 All schools have blackboards     700 schools with 2,100 classrooms    535 schools with 2,780 classrooms
3 Teaching-leaming matenal available to all
students.
3 1 All students have textbooks      100% of 160,000 students             100% of 234,537 students
3 2 All teachers have teachers/ guides,
4 Social mobilizabon campaign
4 1 Social mobilization campaign completed Completed                      Completed but not measured or evaluated
5 Policy studies                     School mapping, seminars, workshops,  School mapping completed in 10/2001
5 1 Policy studies executed          preliminary studies completed
6 PMU operational
6 1 PMU staffed and operational      Staffed and operational on full-time basis  Staffed and operational on a full-tme basis,
no educator
6 2 Construction Management Unit (firm)  Intemational consultants with local staff  Trained local staff only
operational
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Component                       US$ million    US$ million
Rebuilding School Physical Infrastructure              8 75            8.04             92
Providing Teaching-Leaming Matenal                     3.20            3.20            100
Social Mobilization and Communications                 0.15            0.10             67
Support for Policy Development                         0.50            0.48             96
Management and Implementationi Support                 1.30            2.08            160
Total Baseline Cost                                   13.90           13.90
Physical Contingencies                               13.90           13.90            100
Price Contingencies                                  13.90           13.90            100
Total Project Costs              41.70           41.70
Total Financing Required               41.70          41.70
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Expenditure Categorn  ;.. .               - Procurement Methods        .   . Total Cost
LIB       IS       NS        DC      Other
1. Civil Works                           0.7                0.5                           1.2
2 Goods (including transportation)                 5.5      0.5       3.2                 9 2
3. Sub-grants                          _                                        1.5       1.5
4 Annual Project Auditing Costs                                                0.1        0.1
5. Consultants' Services and Studies                                            1.9       1.9
TOTAL                                              6.2       1        3.2       3.5      13 9
Project Costs by Procurement Method (Actual costs in USS million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                 Total Cost
NCB     LIB      [S       NS      DC     Other
1. Civil Works                 0 12    1 28     0       0.17     0        0        1.57
2 Goods (incl. Transportation)  0 54   1 84    2 49     0.54    3 03     0 48      8.92
3 Sub-grants                    0       0        0       0        0      1 18      1.18
4 Annual Project Auditing Costs  0      0        0       0        0      0.01      0 01
5. Consultants' Services & Studies  0   0        0       0        0      2.01      2.,01
6. Operating Cost               0       0        0      0.21      0       0        0 21
TOTAL               0 66    3 12    2.49     0.92    3 03     3 68      13.90
- 22 -



Project Financing by Category of Expenditure (in US$ millioni equivalent)
Percentage of
Categorv          App aisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate      Appraisal
Bank    Govt.    CoF.    Bank     Govt.    CoF.   Bank Govt. CoF.
Civil Works           1.15                     1 57                      137
Goods                 9 25                     8.92                      96
Sub-Grants            1.50                     1.18                      79
Annual       Project  0 06                     0.01                      17
Auditing
Consultants    and    1 94                     2 22                      114
Studies                        _
Total Protect Costs   13.90                    13.90                     100
Total     Financing   13 90                    13.90                     100
Required                                                _                     _
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Mlssiont
Stage of Project Cycle      |          No of Persoils and Specialty           Perfonnrance Rating
(e g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/25/2000                  4
02/24/2000                 16
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/26/2000
06/13/2000                 17
Supervision
06/28/2000                   4
08/07/2000                   3
11/25/2000                 1I   Education Specialist (Mission      S             S
Leader), Architect, Other
Consultant (2), Donors AusAID
(2), JICA, Portugal (2), UNICEF,
USAID
04/07/2001                 II   Education Specialist (Mission     S             S
Leader), Education Economist,
Architect (Consultant), Donors
AusAID, Brazil, European
Union, Ireland Aid, JICA,
Portugal, UNICEF, USAID
11/20/2001                 14   Education Specialist (Mission      S             S
Leader), Procurement Specialist,
Social Development Consultants
(2), Projects Officer, Deputy
Chief of Mission, Architect
Consultant, Donors AusAid,
Brazil, European Union, JICA,
Portugal. UNICEF. USAID
06/15/2002                   2   Education Specialist (Mission     S             S
Leader), Architect (Consultant)
ICR
10/10/2002                  2    Economist (Mission
Leader). Architect
(Consultant)
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                43                         158
Appraisal/Negotiation                   N A                         N A
Supervision                               93                        210
ICR                                        4                         20
Total                                    140                        388
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neglhgible. NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0' Maci o policies                        0 H   O SU O M    O N   0 NA
EJ Sector Policies                        ' H   O SU O M    O N   3 NA
C Physical                                 O H  O SU O M    O N   O NA
, Financial                                OH   O SU O M    0 N   O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H   0J SU 0 M   0 N   O NA
il Environmental                          0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
Social
0 Povertt Reduction                 0 H   0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
0 Gender                            O H   0) SU 0  M  O N  O NA
LW Otlher (Please specifj)          O H   OSUOM       O N   O NA
r0 Private sector development             0 H   0 SU 0 M    O IV 0 NA
O1 Putblic sector management              0 H   0 SU O M    0 N   0 NA
7 Other (Please specify)                  0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfaciory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                                 Rating
X Lending                                              HS H  S    O U    O HU
I Supervision                                        OHS OS       OU     OHU
Z Overall                                            O HS * S     O U    O HU
6 2 BorrowerpeiJbrmance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS * S      O U    O HU
G Government inmplementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0  U   0 HU
Imtplemtentation agency perfornmance                0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
X Overall                                            OHS *S       OU     G HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
East Timor. Building a Nation- A Framework for Reconstruction and Development, Joint-Assessment
Mission, Health and Education Background Paper, Joint Assessment Mission, November 1999
Project Infonnation Document (PID)
Project Appraisal Document (PAD): June 21, 2000
Grant Agreement, June 21, 2000
Memorandum of the President, June 21, 2000
Minutes of Negotiations
Project Status Reports (PSRs)
Mission Aide-memoires
Back-to-Office Reports
Project Operations Manual
Project Financial Reports
Project Correspondences
QAG Review Report
Background Paper for Donors' Meeting on East Timor, Brussels, December 5-6, 2000
Project Appraisal Document: Fundamental School Quality Project, World Bank, September, 28, 2001
- 28 -



