Report No. PID9188
Project Name                     East Timor-TP-Emergency School (@)
Readiness Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       TPPE70268
Borrower(s)                      EAST TIMOR
Implementing Agency
Address UNTAET (UN TRANSITIONAL
ADMINISTRATION FOR EAST TIMOR)
Contact Person: Cecilio Adorna,
UNTAET, Dili, East Timor
Fax: 61-8 89 422198
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 16, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 27, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The previous educational system in East Timor, built and run by Indonesia,
is widely considered to be of very low quality. Physically, the schools
were built to unacceptably poor standards and have never been adequately
maintained. The textbooks, reflect the overloaded curriculum and are
generally deemed difficult to use. School administration was
non-participatory, centralized and plagued by corruption. After the
violence and destruction following the independence vote, an already poor
situation became even worse: schools were burned, had their roofs torn
off, or were otherwise damaged or destroyed. Books were burnt and both
students and teachers fled the violence. Today, in addition to all the
physical shortcomings, schools are functioning on an ad hoc basis. Both
regular and volunteers teachers are trying to teach without a supply of
textbooks, proper chalkboards, instructional aids, furniture, or new
curricular guidelines. Also, since screening for and appointment into the
civil service will only occur in May, 2000, teachers so far have not
received a regular salary. The only incentive most have received to date
has been a small stipend (around $20 per month) and an allocation of rice,
provided by UNICEF and the World Food Program, respectively. Since there
are virtually no books in the school, a regular curricular program has not
been followed in most places; thus, it is agreed that most students will
have to repeat the same grade next school year. At the primary school
level, this means that next year's (2000-2001) grade one intake will be
twice as large as normal (this year's cohort plus next year's). There is
also mounting evidence that next year's enrollment will further increase
due to higher than previous years' net enrollment rates (previously only
70%), brought on by the higher levels of community support for schooling
and the elimination of many of the former cost items (e.g., the need for
uniforms). Next year's primary and secondary school enrollments are now



expected to exceed last year's, and soar to above 200,000 students.
A. Destroyed, Unsafe, or Inadequate School Buildings The urgent
reconstruction of school buildings must be the main objective of any
emergency education project at this time - without safe, covered school
buildings there can be no formal education. Before the referendum there
were around 950 primary and secondary schools, public and private, in East
Timor. An exact count of the current number of functioning schools is not
available given poor record keeping and the recent devastation which left
many schools dysfunctional. The best data is for primary schools gathered
by UNICEF. The March 2000 UNICEF count places the count at 693 primary
schools in East Timor's 13 districts and 64 sub-districts. According to
this same count, there are close to 150 thousand students and somewhat
more than six thousand teachers, although many of them are not qualified
to teach. At the secondary school level, the accurate numbers are even
harder more difficult to obtain, but last year's figures are a clue:
32,000 students at the junior secondary level and about 19,000 at the
senior secondary (general and vocational streams). It must be stressed
that this information is preliminary and subject to rapid change, not only
because the information systems are virtually nonexistent, but also
because reality is rapidly changing. Schools can be classified into three
categories of damage. First, although no schools are in good condition, a
number require only minor repairs and refurbishing. These schools were
not targeted during the disturbances, but most are still in poor condition
because they were built poorly or not maintained properly. In many cases,
roofs for this category of schools need to be replaced as roofing sheets
have disappeared in the months following the militia rampage. A second
category includes those schools that appear to be structurally sound, but
that require a considerable amount of reconstruction because of damage to
or destruction of walls, roofs and roof structures, ceilings, floors, or
other components. This category of school can be further subdivided into
those which are sound enough for further upgrading to a new quality level
(e.g., receiving electricity and running water) and those, which due to
structural weaknesses, can only last a few more years (most Indonesian
built schools). Finally, there are those schools that have sustained
serious damage or are structurally unsound. For these schools, it is more
efficient in terms of cost and time to rebuild than to attempt to fix
them. UNICEF, USAID, the PKF, along with several bilaterals and NGOs have
an emergency program for replacing roofs on approximately 2700 classrooms.
Some work has already been done in surveying schools in order to assign
them into the most appropriate damage category. UNICEF undertook an
initial nontechnical survey of about 410 schools and their physical
situation. The CNRT has also evaluated a number of schools deemed by the
school communities as in need of repairs. This survey was conducted by
educators, not technical specialists and does not include engineering
data. During the preparation of ESRP, a team of East Timorese engineers
and school architects was hired to carry out a civil engineering survey.
The engineers' report showed that nearly half of the schools surveyed
required demolition and replacement.    These technical surveys include a
damage status report on each school building (most schools consist of one
or more 2-3 classroom modules). This effort will be completed for all
schools by mid May, 2000 and the information will be entered in a data
base.   B.  Widespread Lack of Furniture and EquipmentFurniture and
equipment were wrecked along with buildings. Being relatively easy to
carry off or destroy, furniture and school equipment disappeared almost
completely from most schools. This includes student desks as well as
-2 -



shelves, cupboards, teachers' desks, office furniture and even
blackboards.  These must be restored before the beginning of the school
year in October 2000.    C.  Complete Absence of Teaching and Learning
MaterialsTeaching materials were mostly burned, destroyed or lost. The
teaching materials that teachers are used to do exist in Indonesia, and
virtually all students and teachers can use the Indonesian language.
Given that there is insufficient time to create an new national curriculum
and new curricular materials before the new school year, the use of
Indonesian language materials as a transitional measure has been agreed
upon by the major educational stakeholders. Eventually a new, more
appropriate and more effective curriculum will need to be produced and
materials developed. In addition, there are no visual aids in the school
and no teaching materials such as chalk, paper, science equipment, maps or
reference books. Moreover, the student have little access to school
supplies such as paper, copybooks, pens and pencils, rulers and school
bags. Such items are not available in the local market place and even, if
they were, most families have virtually no buying power.     D.   Disrupted
Teaching ForceAccording to the Joint Assessment Mission of late last year
about 80t of pre-independence primary school teachers were East Timorese
who have since remained in the country; on the other hand, only about 20t
of secondary school teachers have remained, leaving that level with a
serious teacher shortage. During the past few months many volunteer
teachers have entered the classroom, both at the primary and secondary
school levels. Thus, there now appears to be a surplus of primary school
teachers, although many are underqualified. A decision has been made to
test teachers by means of a national exam in May and take the best
qualified into the National Teaching Service. This is likely to eliminate
the unqualified teachers at the primary school level, but it will do
little to relieve the shortage of qualified teachers at the secondary
level. For that level, provisional measures will be needed such as
recruiting and upgrading interested primary school teachers, and using
university students (with or without some emergency teacher training).
Various forms of inservice teacher education will also be needed in
support of new teaching methods and higher levels of professionalism among
teacher, perhaps leading to teacher self-help networks based at resource
schools (school clusters). Teacher provision and training are currently
being dealt with by UNTAET/CNRT, assisted by UNICEF and bilateral donors
like the Portuguese government. In the third school revitalization
program, focusing enhancing school quality, this crucial ingredient will
be supported under the trust fund.    A final point concerning teacher
preparation is the orientation of head teachers. When the new school
begins next October, many of the primary school principals and most of
those at the secondary school level will be undertaking school management
tasks for the first time. Thus, each will need intensive orientation
concerning new rules and regulations and management roles. In addition,
school councils will be reactivated and given more responsibilities.
Training for school principals and school councils will be provided under
the emergency school readiness project. E. Management, Information, and
Technical StaffCentral and regional management and administration of the
school system was basically in the hands of the Indonesian Department of
Education (DEPDIKBUD). After the referendum, those offices were
dismantled and most of the managers returned to Indonesia. Consequently,
accurate information on the school system has been difficult to collect
and confirm, and few resources remain for managing educational resources
and supervising school operations. Management and school supervision
-3 -



systems have yet to be institutionalized. While there is no time to
prepare an effective education management unit by October, the project can
support capacity building for a "project management unit" and will assist
in creating simple monitoring and supervision systems at the district
level.    F. Government strategyThe East Timor School System
Revitalization Program constitutes UNTAET/CNRT's central strategy for
school system reconstruction and represents the combined efforts of UNTAET
itself, CNRT, UN agencies, international and national NGOs, and the
International Development Association (IDA). The overriding concern of
the Interim National Educational Authority and its partners is that all
children aged 6 to 15 have access to schools by October, 2000.
Concurrently, plans are being developed to remodel the educational system
over the next two-three years so that it reflects the values and needs of
independent East Timor and promises an overall higher standard of quality
than in the past.
2. Objectives
A. BackgroundEast Timor's school system, crippled in the post-referendum
violence at the end of 1999, is capable of functioning today only because
of the spirit of hope and independence-inspired enthusiasm. Thousands of
volunteers, both Timorese and international, under the inspiration and
leadership of CNRT, the Catholic Church, local and international NGOs, and
international organizations such as UNICEF and WFP, have been bringing
children together, putting roofs on school buildings, cleaning up rubble
in the hundreds of school buildings targeted by fire bombs, distributing
books, paper, pencils and school meals, and serving as teachers. As
inspiring and laudable as this is, it is unreasonable to expect that a
high quality educational system can be built upon volunteerism alone. The
revitalization of a school system requires the mobilization of vast stores
of human and physical resources. The pre-referendum educational system in
East Timor was under-resourced to begin with. School buildings and
equipment were of very poor quality, barely maintained, and not conducive
to modern pedagogy. With the post-referendum violence and the pull-out of
the Indonesian administrative structure, however, the system was all but
demolished. Besides the destruction of the schools, teachers fled their
posts, students became refugees, and school administration fell apart.
So, while teachers and students are struggling to get back to normal life,
there is little left to work with: few workable buildings, meager inputs
and only an ad hoc administrative structure.This difficult situation,
however, provides opportunity as well. Exactly because so much of what
existed previously has been swept away, East Timor has an historic
opportunity to build a new and modern education system, relevant to its
own needs and context, that meets both quality and affordability
standards. This system may be designed around lessons learned from
similar countries around the world that have succeeded in establishing
effective school systems.The project described below will be the first in
a series of steps in this direction, concentrating on East Timor's most
urgent short-term educational challenge, revitalizing its basic education
infrastructure with functional schools (primary and secondary), furniture
and equipment, books and learning materials, and management support.     B.
Program Purpose and Phasing Contributors to the Trust Fund for East Timor
and other donors envisioned education as one of the priority sectors on
the new nation's reconstruction agenda. Building upon the Joint
Assessment Mission of late 1999, the first annual Work Plan in Education
developed by the United Nations Transitional Administration for East Timor
-4 -



(UNTAET), the initial educational policy work undertaken by the Conselho
Nacional da Resistencia Timorense (CNRT) and inputs from a Joint Program
Development Mission organized by the Trust Fund managers, the World Bank
(February 24 to March 3, 2000), an educational sector plan was designed
and summarized in the form of a Matrix of East Timorese Educational
Development Activities for the Transitional Period (Years 2000-2002).
Besides setting up a comprehensive development framework for education,
the matrix was also expected to facilitate a coordinated program of
financial and technical assistance from development agencies in the
following major activity areas: [11 Restoring primary and secondary school
attendance;[2] Establishing national consensus concerning mission, vision,
and key policies;[3] Establishing a National Education Authority and East
Timor School System;[41 Developing pilot programs for early childhood
education; [51 Developing adult education and training programs;[61
Revitalizing primary education; [71 Revitalizing secondary education; [81
Revitalizing post-secondary education;[9] Providing human resource
development for educational personnel (including teacher training);[101
Developing national cultural and sports programs. Prerequisite policy
decisions, key actions, and timeframes for these actions have been agreed
under each of these major activity areas. Moreover, each activity area is
associated with the main implementing agencies responsible for supporting
the specified actions under each activity area, and the likely source of
funds for these actions. These agencies include UNICEF, USAID, and various
NGOs. The sector plan sets out, in a general way, most of the issues
involved in educational development over the next several years. C. The
School System Revitalization ProgramIt is within this framework that a
school system revitalization program (SSRP) will be developed with support
from the Trust Fund for East Timor and other donors. The program will
concentrate on activity areas six and seven from the East Timor Education
Development Matrix, "Revitalizing Primary Education" and "Revitalizing
Secondary Education." The TFET assisted components consist of a series of
interrelated and overlapping projects (initially three), with the overall
purpose of improving the quality and relevance of education available to
East Timorese children and youth. The phasing of these projects will
proceed according to a strategy of progressive quality improvements.
Phase One. In the first phase of the revitalization program all children
will have access to schools operating at a "basic operational level." At
this level, schools buildings will be clean, safe and covered, will be
supplied with basic furniture, books and other learning-teaching
materials, and will operate with teachers and principals, who have
received at least minimal training. Teacher training will not be covered
by the trust fund project, but will be provided with support from other
development agencies.    Communities will contribute to school physical
improvement and repair. Phase Two. In phase two schools will operate at
the "fundamental quality level." At this level, new buildings will
replace those judged to be beyond repair, existing buildings will be
upgraded to a comparable standard of quality, and permanent furniture will
replace temporary furniture. School councils will be strengthened. Phase
Three. In the third phase schools will be raised to the "enhanced quality
level." At this level school-community councils will be given the
responsibility to manage a block grant (equivalent to a few dollars per
student) for school improvement, giving them choice over how to enhance
school quality. This will encourage parents, teachers and other community
members to take more responsibility for school results. During this
phase, support could also be given to programs of professional support to
- 5 -



teachers consistent with East Timorese educational policy. All Phases.
Quality improvement in the successive phases will be enhanced by three
kinds of institutional support programs: a) social mobilization and
communications; b) institutional strengthening and capacity building; and
c) educational policy development.      a) Social Mobilization and
Communications. Revitalizing the education system in East Timor will
require a substantial shift in perceptions, attitudes, and behavior on the
part of local leaders, teachers and headteachers, parents, and even
children. Influencing these attitudes, encouraging participation, and
disseminating the reasons for and results of these changes are crucial to
project implementation success as well as the institutional sustainability
and expansion of these new approaches across the country. Such programs
will be organized and managed by the interim educational authorities in
East Timor. b) Leadership and management capacity building. School system
revitalization is not just a matter physical infrastructure. School
quality also depends on effective leadership at the school, district and
national levels. In all SSRP projects, interim educational authorities
will develop simple, effective management routines and leadership
training. At the school level this will mean focusing on and support both
the principal (head teacher) and the school-community councils; at the
district level the establishment of simple systems of monitoring and
professional support in the attainment of school quality standards; at the
national level, capacity building both within a project management unit
and the National Educational Authority. Capacity building will be needed
in relation to all features of the country's new educational system. This
project will concentrate on that related to specific aspects of the school
revitalization program. This component will not be financed by TFET, but
by other funding sources.    c) Policy Development.   School revitalization
will unfold in a dynamic policy environment. In some cases short-term
reconstruction efforts will run ahead of relevant policy making; in some
cases it will follow policy development. In any case, there is a need
for constant interaction and accommodation between policy and action.
As an act of creativity and change in East Timor's new educational system,
policy making requires careful identification and analysis of
alternatives, wide-ranging consultations, and agreed upon adoption
processes. In support of such efforts (especially in relation to school
revitalization), the SSRP project will allocate resources to interim
educational authorities for policy development, including funds for
information/data collection (e.g., school mapping, information on
innovation in other countries), policy studies, workshops, consultants,
and study tours.                    D.  Projects to be Mounted under School
System Revitalization Program Three projects will be mounted
corresponding to the three phases of the revitalization program (SSRP), as
follows:  SSRP-I:      Emergency School Readiness Project SSRP-II:
Fundamental School Quality Project   SSRP-III:   Enhanced School Quality
Project
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of Bank (IDA) support for this Project goes far beyond the
financial resources it is providing. Other Bank financed projects have
extensive experience in defining and implementing minimum standards and in
developing school autonomy through small grants. This institutional
knowledge, available both at the Bank and in these Projects'
implementation units in Brazil, has been important avoiding the repetition
of errors and inducing the repetition of successes. Bank (IDA)
- 6 -



flexibility in approving funds quickly is also important, given that this
is a most urgent Project.    Would this project have to go through the
normal channels of multilateral or bilateral funding, it would begin far
too late for any of its objectives to be achieved.
4. Description
A. The Project Development Objective for ESRPThe development objective of
the Emergency School Readiness Project is to provide school age children
and youth with opportunities for education at the "basic operational
level." In the context of this project, "basic operational level" means a
school with a safe and clean building(s) having a roof and school
furniture, textbooks and learning materials, and management support.
(Teacher provision and reorientation will be through other programs at
this stage.) Access to such a school at the primary and junior secondary
level will be made available by the start of the school year beginning
October 2000. (At one location per district -- three in Dili -- access to
upper secondary education will also be made available.) A feature of this
project will be a community awareness campaign which will explain how the
readiness project is the first step in creating a modern school system,
relevant and responsive to national needs, and meeting both quality and
affordability standards. Other features will be capacity building for
school system managers and support for policy development.     B.  Project
components 1. Rebuilding school physical infrastructure (a) Carrying
out school rehabilitation, including essentail repairs of damaged school
buildings;(b) Providing basic operational furniture (student desks,
teacher desk, office furniture, shelves and blackboards); and (c)
Constructing prototype new schools and providing prototype furniture.2.
Providing learning-teaching materials (a) Acquiring and distributing
student materials; and(b) Acquiring and distribution teachers' guides.3.
Social mobilization and communications    (a) Identifying appropriate
audiences and media; and    (b) Propagating messages and gathering
feedback.4.   Support for policy development        (a) Conducting school
mapping; and       (b) Supporting studies and workshops related to priority
policy decisions in education.   5.   Management and implementation support
Strengthening the Project Management Unit through provision of technical
assistance. C. Project Cost Summary
1. Rebuilding school physical infrastructure.
2. Providing teaching-learning materials.
3. Social mobilization and communications.
4. Support for policy development.
5. Management and implementation support.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING        13.9
Total Project Cost       13.9
6. Implementation
The largest, most costly, and most complex component of the Project is the
first one: "Rebuilding School Physical Infrastructure." This will consist
of rehabilitating damaged and poorly maintained buildings, providing
school furniture, and constructing prototype school buildings to replace
- 7 -



buildings destroyed beyond repair. The former will be implemented by
UNTAET/CNRT through cooperative agreements with UNICEF (mainly responsible
for school reroofing) and the TFET-financed Project Management Unit.
Damage surveys will be conducted at every school and a report of building
conditions will be made. This report will be discussed by
District/Subdistrict committees, which will decide which buildings to
rehabilitate based on both damage reports and enrollment estimates. At
the school level, rehabilitation work on those buildings will be managed
by school principals (or authorized equivalents) in consultation with
school councils, or, if the councils are not constituted, specially
created "school rehabilitation committees," including representative of
prominent social groups and community leaders (the formation of which will
be based on project guidelines). Supervising Engineers, to be coordinated
by the head of the project's Construction Management Sub-Unit (see below)
will work with the school principals and their councils/committees in the
development of a rehabilitation plan using a standardized rehabilitation
checklist, which will be included in the project operations manual. The
engineers will "check off" the kind of repairs needed - roof replacement,
wall and floor patching, windows, doors, painting, removing rubbish and
cleaning grounds; and specify the number of standard packages (roof,
window, door, flooring, etc.) needed to carry out the specified repairs
for each classroom. The packages will also specify the amount and kind of
labor that school principals will need to recruit. As part of completing
the checklist, the principals and their councils/committees will indicate
who they will recruit as work crews (firms or individuals) and whether
they will purchase some materials (e.g., sand and gravel) locally. The
principals will then attach the rehabilitation checklist to a "
Participation Agreement" (signed by the principal and witnessed by the
council or committee) and obtain approval signatures from a Supervising
Engineer and from Project Management in the PMU. The signed Participation
Agreement will authorize the principal to pick up the building materials "
packages--including tools--identified in the rehabilitation checklist, and
to withdraw the first installment of the Rehabilitation Sub-grant for the
mobilization of the work crews.    The principal will then be responsible
for publicly displaying a standardized "School Rehabilitation Information
Poster" on the school grounds, for hiring work crews, and for managing the
rehabilitation project, the specifications of which will also be included
in the Project Operations Manual. Subgrant funds will be disbursed and
accounted for by PMU-fielded project assistant accountants placed in each
District. Each time a rehabilitation benchmark is reached, the principal
solicits a visit by a Supervising Engineer or assistant, who fills out and
signs the standardized inspection report to be included in the manual. If
the engineer concludes that the benchmark is achieved, he signs on the
appropriate line in the Participation Agreement, which in turn authorizes
the principal to withdraw the second installment of the subgrant.     If the
Supervising Engineer or representative is not satisfied, he or she will
advise the school principal on the additional work needed to reach the
benchmark, using a form and following procedures to be included in the
Project Operations Manual. The Engineer will also schedule a
re-inspection visit for this benchmark. The final payment will be
released after a similar inspection process. Building materials and tools
financed by TFET (except for materials like sand and gravel, which can be
purchased locally with funds from the subgrant) will be procured centrally
by UNTAET/CNRT with the help of the PMU procurement specialist. They will
be distributed to and warehoused in centrally or each district and a
- 8 -



distributed to schools according to their needs. The PMU will procure
school furniture (student desks and chairs) from the international market
and arrange for shipment to (and, when necessary, local assembly at) the
school sites. Teachers' furniture, office furniture and blackboards will
be produced locally and delivered to the school site. Prototype school
construction will be implemented by international and local firms selected
by UNTAET/CNRT with the help of the PMU. The firms will arrange for their
own materials. Construction will be supervised by a prototype school
construction manager within the Construction Management Sub-unit.
Textbooks will use the Indonesian language for grades 2 through 12, except
for use in language and religious instruction . These books will be
purchased directly from the Indonesian publishers. Committees of local
educators, coordinated by UNTAET/CNRT, will select the titles to be
purchased from among those available from Indonesia. New covers will be
designed though a contest conducted by UNTAET/CNRT and a local preface
will be prepared for insertion in these books. Inappropriate material, as
identified by local review, will be eliminated during the review committee
evaluations. For grade 1, books in Bahasa Indonesia will not be
procured. Instead, the same review committee will recommend picture books
from international publishers for procurement and distribution to the
schools. Components 3 (Social Mobilization and Communications), and 4
(Support for Policy Development) will be implemented through the
establishment of UNTAET/CNRT task forces (one for each component). In
accordance with the Project Operations Manual, each task force will
consist of local and international specialists who would be charged with
developing the terms of reference for each of the activities to be
specified in the Project Operations Manual for that component and with
contracting the services needed to carry out these terms of reference as
needed. Component 3 would include the development of community
mobilization campaigns and the promotion of participation in school
rehabilitation and education support activities. Component 4 will
support school mapping, educational research, policy analysis, and
knowledge enhancement related to educational development. It might also
include beneficiary assessments, and pre-investment studies for subsequent
school revitalization projects. A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established initially within Government and Public Administration Pillar
of UNTAET to serve as the principal implementing agency for the
cooperative project; once a Department of Education is established the PMU
will be placed under that body. A Project Director will be appointed to
lead the PMU and will be responsible for overall project administration,
general coordination, and quality control. Project implementation will be
the responsibility of the Project Manager and Deputy Project Manager.
These will work through the following operational sub-units: An Education
Management Sub-unit (including procurement staff for other than
construction materials procurement); a Financial Management Sub-unit; a
Project Monitoring Sub-unit; and a Construction Management Sub-unit,
including staff for construction materials procurement. (The latter is
expected to be funded directly by AusAID.) The project is committed to
employ East Timorese in key positions as soon as feasible. After the
establishment of a Department of Education, it is expected that the Civil
Service Commission, in consultation with UNTAET and East Timorese
leadership, will detemine how East Timorese civil servants will be
recruited to the PMU and for which posts. Details on the function and
staffing of the Project Management Unit are found in Annex 2.       At the
district level implementation of the school rehabiliation works will be
-9-



coordinated by the following PMU staff members, all East Timorese:
Supervising engineers (one per district);Construction supervisors (average
three per district);District assistant accountants. The first two will be
coordinated by the Construction Management Sub-Unit; the third by the
Financial Management Sub-unit.    A Project Operations manual including
guidelines for the implementation of activities under five project
components will be created by the PMU prior to the beginning of project
disbursement. Accounting, Reporting, Auditing, and Monitoring
Arrangements. TFET funds would be disbursed into a Special Account (SA)
in a commercial bank acceptable to the IDA, which would be managed UNTAET
through the PMU. The PMU would be responsible for: (a) preparing
quarterly reports would include project financial statements, a progress
report on actual physical and financial progress in project execution, and
procurement management reports; (b) conducting the midterm review; and
(c) contracting annual and concurrent audits of the Project, conducted by
external, independent auditors. The monitoring and reporting arrangements
would include parts of the school rehabilitation component covered by both
UNICEF and the Trust Fund. The PMU will also be responsible the design and
implementation of a computerized financial management system that would
enhance the project's financial management and overall implementation
capacity. This system will be operational by December 31, 2000.
7. Sustainability
The project is designed to be mostly completed during the UNTAET's
governance. Program costs are expected to drop off significantly by the
end of the first six months of project implementation. Nonetheless,
sustainability is an important issue. The primary objective of this
project is to make sure East Timor children do not sacrifice any more
years of education. To do this, project will invest in raising the
quality of dilapidated schools (those that are still structurally sound)
to a functional level. This investment does not need to be sustained for
these structures since they will be upgraded in subsequent projects under
SSRP. What does need to be sustained is headmaster and community
participation in the process of school repair and maintenance.     This
project is clearly designed to promote this type of participatory behavior
and ownership. In subsequent projects, a school grant will be devolved to
each school with the objective of facilitating school maintenance. This
grant, accompanied by the experience the school community gains under
SSRP-2, will help guarantee that the investments made in school
improvement will be sustained.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The various components and operating philosophies have been tried in and
been successful in various other World Bank-financed projects. First, the
use of fundamental quality level standards as a means for making possible
a higher quality of learning in an equitable manner has been successfully
applied in 6 projects around the world. Most recently, it is being used
in the US$1.3 billion Fundescola Program in Brazil, financed by the World
Bank. Second, the use of a school-level survey by the project has been
shown to be necessary in successfully identifying construction material
needs. Past projects that have relied upon the normal channels of
education offices at the national and district levels have proven
incapable of targeting interventions needed to the right schools.
Third, the use of direct transfers to school community for small repairs
and improvements has been shown effective when there is involvement of the
- 10 -



school and its community.    Fourth, the use of adequate and rigorous
technical specifications when procuring furniture and equipment has proven
fundamental in guaranteeing adequate quality. These specifications were
difficult to elaborate according to international norms, but once done
they can be used in a wide variety of situations. Finally, coordinating
donor assistance for all phases of the project ensures more efficient and
effective use of funds. Explicit understandings have been reached among
the principal donors associated with school rehabilitation to focus
assistance according to comparative advantage to achieve synergy through
economies of scale.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no major environmental risks associated
with this project. Individual project activities are small and do not
involve environmentally damaging technologies. Very minor environmental
risks include those normally associated with community-based
rehabilitation. The most relevant examples is that of landfill associated
with the disposal of construction debris. This will be mitigated through
the project's collaboration with the Peace Keeping Force, who has agreed
to assist in the removal from school grounds, and eventual disposal of
building rubble from demolished schools.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
H. Dean Nielsen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458-5358
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 23, 2000.
- 11 -



