Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF-023834
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Emergency School Readiness Project)
between
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
IN EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated June 21, 2000
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF-023834
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 2000, between the UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL 
ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, as amended by Resolutions No. 
99-8/1 and No. IDA99-5/1, the Executive Directors established the Trust Fund for East 
Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency reconstruction and recovery program in East 
Timor and appointed the Association as trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) 
establishing a United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for 
an initial period until January 31, 2001, and whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a 
structure as set out in part IV of the Report of the Secretary-General dated October 
4, 1999; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project, which, together 
with additional inputs related to Part A.1 of the Project and expected to be provided 
Page  2
pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding between the Recipient and UNICEF will enable 
the Recipient to realize the objectives of its emergency school readiness program; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The "General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East Timor 
Grant Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated May 15, 2000, 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Interim Education Authority" means the authority to be established 
within the Recipient’s Governance and Public Administration pillar, to advise the 
Recipient in educational policies, programs and services until such functions are 
incorporated into a department responsible for education to be established within the 
Recipient’s transitional administration;
(b)
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Project Manager and the school principal or the District Education Officer of the 
District where the school is located or such other person as shall be agreed with the 
Trustee, for purposes of Part A.1 of the Project; 
(c)
"Project Management Unit" and "PMU" mean the unit responsible for the 
implementation of the Project, including the implementation of the financial 
management and procurement action plans, and mean the Project implementation entity 
for purposes of sub-sections (g), (h), (i) and (j) of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions;
(d)
"Project Operations Manual" means the Project Operations Manual to assist 
the Project Management Unit in the implementation of Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project through the description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard 
documentation, model Participation Agreement, reporting requirements, the Project 
Performance Indicators, environmental criteria applicable to designs, and criteria for 
the selection of schools, as such Project Operations Manual may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Trustee;
(e)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made available by the Recipient out of the 
proceeds of the Grant for a Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project; and
(h)
"Sub-project" means a specific school rehabilitation project carried out 
under Part A.1 of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Grant.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount equal to thirteen million nine hundred thousand Dollars ($13,900,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant 
to the Resolution referred to in Whereas (A) of this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on 
account of a Sub-grant under Part A.1 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Grant Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the 
Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through the Project Management Unit, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, engineering, 
environmental, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan 
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
Page  4
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
that the Interim Education Authority has been established;
(b)
that the Project Management Unit has been established in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
that an action plan for the financial management of the Project, 
acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted; and
(d)
that an action plan for procurement under the Project, acceptable to the 
Trustee, has been adopted.
Section 5.02. If the Grant Agreement shall not have entered into effect ninety 
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Grant Agreement and all obligations of 
the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Trustee, after consideration of the 
reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date for the purposes of this Section. 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary General, United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o GPA - Office of the DSRSG
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Page  5
Facsimile:
61-889422198
61-889815157
1212-9632180
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dili, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
   IN EAST TIMOR
By /s/ Sergio Vieira de Mello
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Trustee for the Trust Fund in East Timor
By /s/ Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Authorized Representative
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
By /s/ Xanana Gusmão
Member, National Consultative Council of East Timor
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Civil works
   1,200,000
100% 
(2) Goods (including 
   9,200,000
100%
transportation)
Page  6
(3) Sub-grants
   1,500,000
100% of Sub-grant 
amount
(4) Annual Project auditing 
60,000 100%
costs
(5) Consultants’
   1,940,000
100%
services and studies
TOTAL
13,900,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (5) on account of 
payments   made   for   expenditures  before   that   date  but  after  June 15, 2000,  
and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) and (3) unless the 
Recipient has issued the Project Operations Manual, acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works costing less 
than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods (except books) costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, and books costing less than $300,000 equivalent  per  
contract;  (c) Sub-grants; and (d) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of 
individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in providing school age 
children and youth with opportunities for education at a basic operational level, that 
is, having safe school buildings with basic furniture, blackboards and books, and 
operating with teachers and principals having at least a minimal level of training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives.
Part A: Rebuilding of School Physical Infrastructure
1.
Carrying out of school rehabilitation, including essential repairs on damaged 
school buildings, through the provision of Sub-grants and materials to schools.
2.
Provision to schools of basic operational furniture, including student and 
teacher desks and chairs, office furniture and blackboards.
3.
Construction of about four prototype schools, including about two resources 
schools in sub-districts and about two three-classroom community schools, and 
provision of prototype furniture.
Part B: Provision of Teaching-Learning Materials
Acquisition and distribution to primary and secondary schools of student 
materials and teachers’ guides.
Part C: Social Mobilization and Communications
1.
Identification of audiences and communication media.
2.
Production of communications materials, carrying out of communications 
activities, including meetings and campaigns, and carrying out of evaluation 
activities. 
Page  7
Part D: Support for Policy Development
1.
Development and carrying out of school mapping.
2.
Carrying out of workshops, study tours and preliminary studies related to policy 
development in education.
Part E:  Management and Implementation Support
Strengthening the PMU through provision of technical assistance.
*          *          *          *          *
 The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits" published by 
the Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Part, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
School books and teacher guides which are of a proprietary nature and costing 
$3,200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Trustee's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Labor required for Part A.1 of the Project may be procured from among laborers 
in the vicinity of the school, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Trustee, which procedures shall include that labor shall be selected by the school 
principal or the District Education Officer of the District where the school is 
located or such other person as shall be agreed with the Trustee. The selection of 
such local labor shall be made in consultation with relevant community groups. 
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
Page  8
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more and the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 and awarded on the basis of shopping procedures, and each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and awarded on the basis of 
direct contracting, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Trustee a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to 
the Trustee a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Trustee in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for school mapping activities under Part D of the Project, and Project 
Management and Implementation Support under Part E of the Project, which are estimated 
to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Trustee's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for communication technical assistance under Part C of the Project, 
policy studies and workshops under Part D of the Project, and technical assistance for 
Page  9
Project management and implementation, including Project management capacity building, 
under Part E of the Project, that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project Management Unit within the Governance and Public Administration 
Pillar with sub-units and competent personnel in adequate numbers, including:
(a)
a Project Director, who shall also be a member of the Interim Education 
Authority;
(b)
a Project Manager; 
(c)
an Education Management Sub-unit, including procurement staff for other 
than construction materials procurement;
(d)
a Financial Management Sub-unit;
(e)
a Project Monitoring Sub-Unit; and 
(f)
a Construction Management Sub-unit, including procurement staff for 
construction materials procurement.
2.
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project the Recipient shall ensure that:
(a)
prior to the carrying out of works under a Sub-project, a Participation 
Agreement, acceptable to the Trustee, has been entered into between the Project 
Manager and the school principal or the District Education Officer of the District 
where the school is located or such other person as shall be agreed with the Trustee, 
and an implementation plan for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Operations Manual;
(b)
a Sub-grant for a Sub-project shall be in an amount to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant which shall not exceed the sum of $10,000 equivalent, when 
added to any other amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  10
the Grant, the foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as 
determined by the Trustee, in consultation with the Recipient; and
(c)
a Sub-grant shall be used to finance expenditures for the acquisition of 
labor and materials for the rehabilitation of school buildings.
3.
In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall take all measures 
to avoid the acquisition of land or assets of urban or rural dwellers and to avoid the 
displacement of said dwellers.
4.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, on or about December 15, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by January 15, 2001, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Trustee’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  11
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the  Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  12
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
