Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-V  a'I(m- ~~-F
Report No. 6892-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
February 8, 1988
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resticted disibution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS - Peso (Mex$)
An exchange rate representing the mid-June 1987 free
market rate has been used in the project analysJs:
US$1 - Mex$1,235
The most recent exchange rate as at January 26, 1988, was:
US$1 - Mex$2,206 in the free market
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHMSA     -  Altos Hornos de Mexico S.A.
BOF       -  Basic Oxygen Furnace
CANACERO  -  Camara Nacional de la Industria del Hierrc, y del Acero
CMC 1/    -  Carbon y Minerales Coahuila S.A.
DRC       -  Domestic Resource Cost
EAF       -  Electric Arc Furnace
FISA      -  Fundidora Monterrey S.A.
HYLSA     -  IiYLSA S.A.
mtpy      -  million tonnes per year
NAFIN     -  National Financiera S.N.C.
NKK       -  Nippon Kokan of Japan
OHF       -  Open Hearth Furnace
RMD       -  Raw Materials Division of SIDERMEX
SECOFI    -  Secretaria de Comercio y de Fomento Industrial
SEMIP     -  Secretaria de Energia, Minas y Industria Paraestatal
SICARTSA  -  Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas Las Truchas S.A.
SPP       -  Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
TAMSA     -  lubos de Acero de Mexico S.A.
tpy       -  tonnes per year
UEC       -  United Engineers and Consultants (Div. of US Steel)
1/ CMC is the legal entity being set up as a holding company to
oversee the mining operations of the Raw Materials Division of
SIDERMEX.



ION OFFkAL US ONLY
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                              i - iv
I. INTRODUCTION     ................... .       O           0         1
II. BACKGROUND                                     e                   2
A. The Economy - Recent Structural Changes 2.................. 
B. The Steel Sector *...............  ,                            3
C. Structure and Main Institutions                                 4 6
D. The Policy Framework ...       ..................................    6
III. STRATEGIC ISSUES AND BASIS FOR SECTOR REFORM ................    8
A. Strengths and Weaknesses ........................   . ,         8
B. The Strategic ;ssues         .....................................    9
C. Agenda for Policy Reform         .................................   10
IV. THE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM         ...................................   11
A. Objectives  *..........o......o......* 000e00oooo00ooo  000o   11
B. Global Policy Actions  ..............0........ , 0e..000 e.   12
Co SIDERMEX .eo........o...00000oo 0o 00o0oo 0oooo0oo0o00o00oooo    14
D. Private Sector  ..............                                 17
V. THE PROJECT  o...................................O,.. .......   18
A* Objectives  ....oo.ooo..o..o.oo......oo.  e oe*o    18
B. Project Description *o.ooe...oo.o........ e...............o    19
C. Project Management, Organization and Implementation ......   21
D. Role of NAPIN  *.....0..........  ...............e......o      23
g. Training and Manpower Development soeoo0ooo00)00o000000000@    23
Fo Environmental Issues .....................................     24
VI. CAPITAL COST, PINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT oo.   25
A. Capital Cost ooooo........................................   25
B. Financing Plan oo.....................................o ...   26
C. Onlending Arrangements .0..........................o..o....   28
D. Procurement o..ooo...o.oo.o.o..ooooo.o.oo.oo...o....o*    29
E. Allocation of the Loan and Disbursements    .................    30
F. Auditing  .*000000000000,00 000000000000000000w 900.0@000.00    32
This report was prepared on the basis of appraisal missions in March and
May 1987 by Messrs. R. Venkateswaran, E. Mangan, I. Rivera and G. Konomos
(Consultant) with assistance from Mr. X. Simon, and in the raw materials
segments by Messrs. F. Remy, S. von Klaudy and L. Moran (Consultant) all
formerly of the Industry Department. Mr. J. Malatinsxky of the Latin
America and Caribbean Region also assisted in the preparation.
Thidocumenthmansetitedditbudtnand maybeoud by re -in oly in d peformneo
of thek officW dutis Its contents maY no othwise be dicosed wihout Wod bnkauthoizbon.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd.)                                             Page J4o.
VII. FINANCIAL EVALUkTION          ..........................    33
A. Assumptlons Used and Forecast of Production Costs .*.. .   33
B. Financial Projections                  .....................   36
C. Financial Covenants      ..... e.............. *.*....  40
D. Financial Rate of Return       ................................   40
VIII. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS       ...............................   42
A. Assumptlons       ....................................   42
S. Economic and Rate of Return Analysis ....................   42
C. Domestic Resource Costs and CompetitLve Positlon  .........    44
D. Benefits and Risks  *      .....................................   45
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION          .......................   46
ANNEXES
2-1   The Steel Sector in Mexico         ................................   49
2-2   Raw Haterial Supply Position ..............................   55
2-3   The Policy Framework and Proposed Policy Changes ..........   63
3-1   Operations Technology and Strategic Position                      71
3-2   Competitive Position of Raw Materials                             77
3-3   The Steel Market in Mexico .....*.*.*................   81
4-1   Matrix of  Issues, Measures and Actions                           87
4-2   Steel Sector Policy Letter                                        89
5-1   Imports Eligible for Financing .....93
5-2   The AHKSA Component .....................................   94
Appendix 1 - Environmental Control                                99
5-3   The CMC Componentt                                               102
5-4   SIDERMEX - Strategic Planning Studies                            105
5-5   The HYLSA Component                                              107
6-1   Summary Project Cost - AHMSA Project Component - Part Bo1 .  110
6-2   Summary Project Cost - CMC Project Component - Part B.2          111
6-3   Summary Project Cost - HYLSA Project Component - Part C          112
6-4   Sumary Total Project Cost - Parts B and C   ................  113
6-5   Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan ..............  114
MAPS
IBRD 20418 - Steel Mills and Major Markets
IBRD 20419 - Iron Ore Mines, Coal Mlnes and Natural Gas Pields



TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd.)
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies on Steel Subsector
Al    IBRD:  Mexico Steel Sector Strategy Study, October 1936 (Report
No. 6429-ME)
A2    Miscellaneous Market and Sector Data (see also Al above)
B. Reports and Documents on Companies and Individual Project Components
34.1 SIDERMEX: Convenio and Supporting Studies and Annexes on SIDERMEX
Restructuring Progzam
B5.1  AHMSA:  Industrial Reconversion Project, Phase I - Technical and
Financial Feasibility Study
B5.2 AHNSA: Report of UEC Consultants (incorporated i BSi.1 above)
B5.3 Raw Materials Division: Report of UEC Consultants (METCHEM
Division). Fe&sibility Study and Technical Proposal
B5.4 HYLSA: Report of Nippon Kokan Consultants (February 1987)
B35.5 HYLSA: Technical and Financial Feasibility Studies
B6.1  AHMSA:  Detailed Cost Estimates
36.2 Raw Materials Division: Detailed Cost Estimates
B6.3 HYLSA: Detailed Cost Estimates
B7.1  Working Papers on Financial Analyses of AHMSA, HYLSA and Rav
Materials Division Components including Feasibility Studies prepared
by the Companies
B8.1 Working Paper on Economic Analysis of Products and Project Components
Prepared by Bank staff



MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Guarantor:       United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:   Government, SIDERMEX, AHMSA, CMC and HYLSA.
Amount:          US$400 million equivalent
Term:s           15 years, including 3 years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Loan and
Prodeet
Description:    The proposed Bank loan would help finance the foreign
exchange cost of a major restructuring and policy reform
program for the Mexican steel industry. The public sector
portion of the program aimed at rationalizing SIDERMEX has
already resulted in the shutdown of one major steel plant,
ENSA, and includes an additional reduction in steelmaking
capacity and shift in product mix at its largest remaining
plant, AHMSA. Investments are aimed at rehabilitation,
cost reduction and quality improvement of the flat product
lines at AHMSA and supporting raw material supply. A
similar program is included for the privately owned HYLSA
Monterrey flat product facilities in order to maintain its
domestic competitive market position. Investments are
only included in facilities for which the long-term
domestic market needs have been identified.
Part A-(US$100 million) is tied to implementation of price
decontrol, trade reform, including elimination of Official
Reference Prices for steel products and reduction and
equalization of steel tariffs, and presentation of a
Global Steel Sector Policy Statement to expose the
industry to international competition. It would fiaan&e
eligible raw material and steel product imports during the
adjustment period.
Part B (Us$225 million) provides financing for the
SIDERMEX restructuring program comprising the physical
rehabilitation of the AMHSA steel works (UJ$170 million)
and rehabilitation and restructuring of SIDERMEX Mining
operations (US$50 million). It also provides assistance
in corporate-wide organizational and financial
restructuring and for development of SIDERMEX's long-term
strategy (US$5 million).
Part C (US$75 million) supports the restructuring effort
of HYLSA in the modernization of its flat products
facility, in parallel with the financial restructuring
package under negotiation with creditor banks.



- ii -
Onlending Terms
and Conditions: Part A, the Inpat Materials and Steel Product Imports
Component of the Project, to Government, at 0.25% above
the Bank's standard variable interest rate and with the
same terms as the Bank loan. Parts B and C, in support of
the SIDERMEX Restructuring Program and HYLSA
Restructuring, respectively, to SIDERMEX, AHMSA, SIDERMEX
Mines (Carbon y Minerales de Coahuila, SA, CMC) and HYLSA,
at a rate equal to 110% of the Bank's standard variable
interest rate and with the same terms as the Bank loan.
Benefits and
Risks:          The decontrol of domestic steel prices, coupled with the
trade liberalization measures already implemented and the
overall restructuring of the steel subsector, will lead to
efficient import competition, forcing domestic steel pro-
ducers to improve quality and product mix in order to
serve better downstream steel consuming industries. Bud-
getary transfers to the public steel sector, and indirect
subsidies to the industry as a whole, would be eliminated
and the necessary internal funding would be provided for
the proposed restructuring and rehabilitation of the
physical plant of the entire subsector. The physical
rehabilitation of the AHMSA, and HYLSA plants will sub-
stantially improve the international competitiveness of
flat products both in terms of better quality and lower
overall cost. Rationalization of existing capacity will
also allow the two plants to improve utilization. Down-
stream users of flat products will be able to obtain a
wider range of quality flat products at lower cost. The
rehabilitation of the SIDERMEX mines will allow lower cost
exploitation of available resources and maintain Mexico's
comparative advantages in steel production. Technical
assistance (financed from other sources) will enable the
steel producers to map out viable long-term strategies and
the means to implement them.
The main potential risk is that the Government will delay
actions on complete price decontrcl which could aggravate
the financial position of steel producers and induce a
return to higher protection. The steel price increases
accorded in December 1987 and January 1988, and the agree-
ment on monthly adjustments of steel prices in real terms
based on changes in the Consumer Price Index until elimi-
nation of price controls by not later than December 31,
1988 minimize this risk. Additional risks include a
reversal of agreed policy actions and a sharp real appre-
ciation of the exchange rate which could affect project
viability. The agreements concerning the definition of
future investment strategy, the Government's commitment to
the liberalization program, the substantial physical
restructuring and rehabilitation of the public sector com-
panies, and agreement on Action Plan for monitoring opera-
tions and performance of the target companies all combine
to mitigate the potential adverse impact of the above
risks.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:  Part A of the Loan would be disbursed in two equal
tranches linked to trade liberalization., price decontrol
and elaboration of a Global Steel Sector Policy
Statement. Retroactive financing up to a maximum of
US$20 million for eligible import expenditure after
November 1, 1987, would be allowed. The first tranche
would be available for disbursement at loan effectiveness.
The second tranche would be released upon complete
elimination of any remaining price controls on domestic
steel products, continued maintenance of the trade
liberalization measures, and presentation of the Global
Steel Sector Policy Statement along substantially agreed
lines. The second tranche release is expected in January
1989.
Parts B and C of the Loan would be disbursed against
eligible goods and services procured under World Bank
guidelines, including retroactive financing up to a
maximum of US30 million equivalent for expenditures
incurred after February 1, 1987.
Estimated
Project Cost:   The estimated project cost and financing requirements (not
including normal capital replacements) for the period
1987-1991, are summarized in the following table:
Local Foreign Total
(USJi0llion equivalent)
Part A                                   -      100     100
Parts B and C
Equipment and Spares                  88      328     416
Civil Works/Erection                  91       10     101
Engineering Project Management        17       17      34
TA/Training                            8       18      26
Base Cost                       204     373      577
khysical Contingencies                25       36      61
Price Escalttion                      38       30      68
Installed Cost                  267     439      706
Taxes and Duties                     104        -     104
Total Installed Cost            371     439     iiRS
Incremental Working Capital           80      20      100
Total Project Cost              451     195 !i
Interest during Construction           4       36      40
Total Financing Required        455     495      950
GRAND TOTAL                     455     595   1,050



- iv -
Financing
Plant            The proposed financing plan for the Project is summarized
in the following table:
Local  Foreign   Total
(in US$ M equivalent)
IBRD                                   -     400.0      400.0
Local Baars                           64.0     -         64.0
AMSA                                 185.0    92.0      277.0
CMC                                   78.0    56.0      134.0
SIDERMEX                               3.0      -         3.0
RYLSA                                125.0    47.0      172.0
455.0   595.0   1,tO0.0
Estimated
Schedule of
Disbursements:      IBRD FY:   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual        58.1   108.8   110.4    86.8    26.4        9.5
Cumulative    58.1   166.9   277.3   364.1   390.5   400.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       In excess of 18?
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 6892-ME dated February 8, 1988
&-mv8             IBRD - 20418 - Steel Wines and Major Markets
IBRD - 20419 - Iron Cra Mines, Coal Mines and Natural Gas
Fields



MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I. INTRODbCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico (GOM) has requested a Bank loan to help
finance the restructuring of the Mexican steel industry, and support policy
reforms that will substantially alter the manner in which steel producers
conduct and develop their business in the coming years. The proposed lean
of US$400 million equivalent comprises three major elements: Part A
(US$100 million) is tied to implementation of wide-ranging policy measures
with specific emphasis on exposing the industry to internatio2kal
competition, and would finance steel-related imports during the adjustment
period. Part B (US$225 million) provides financing for the restructuring
needs of the public sector steel company, SIDERMEX, including the physical
restructuring of its integrated steel plant and the country's major flat
product facility, AHMSA, and its coal and iron ore mining operations, as
well as corporate-wide organizational and financial restructuring and
long-term strategy formulation. Part C (US$75 million) supports the
restructuring efforts of the major private sector steel producer, HYLSA, in
the modernization of its flat products facility at Monterrey, in parallel
with a financial restructuring package that has been negotiated with
creditor banks.
1.02      Project financing requirements, including contingencies, price
escalation, interest during construction and incremental working capital
are estimated at US$946 million equivalent net of US$104 million equivalent
of taxes and duties, with about US$595 million equivalent in direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$400 million
would thus cover about 67% of the estimated direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs, or about 421 of the total financing requirements net of
taxes. The balar.ce of the financing needs are to be met from internal cash
generation and from short-turm borrowing for working capital. Suppliers
credits and/or cofinancing represent other possible funding sources.
1.03      Bank involvement in the project arose from initial discussions
with Mexican authorities in 1985, as part of the review of the country's
sectoral investment plans. A Bank mission in May 1986 carried out a Steel
Sector Strategy Review (Report No. 6429-ME). Bank missions in September
and November 1986, reviewed this report and its recommended changes in
steel sector pricing policy and the product mix and investment strategy of
SIDERMEX, with Government authorities, SIDERMEX management, and private
sector representatives. Following these reviews, project identification
was completed and SIDERMEX and HYLSA began to assemble the technical
details with the help of outside consultants. A Bank mining review mission
first visited Mexico in January 1987. The project was preappraised in
February 1987. Appraisal was initiated in March and completed in May 1987
when the final technical reviews by consultants became available.
1.04      Previous Bank involvement in the steel sector began in 1972 when
Mexico embarked on a rehabilitation and expansion program designed to
increase raw steel capacity to about 9.2 million tons per year by 1980 and
11.0 million tons by 1985 in order to satisfy growing domesti.- demand and
to improve productivity of their existing facilities. As part of this
program, in 1973 the Bank extended a loan (President's Report No. P-1307-ME



- 2 -
of August 21, 1973 and Appraisal Report No, 220-ME dated August 10, 1973)
of US$70.0 million to SICARTSA to finance a new integrated steel plant at
Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Coast. The plant has a capacity of
1.1 muilion tons per year of non-flat products (rebars, merchant bars, wire
rods). The project also included the development and exploitation of a
captive iron ore mine and a port to handle imported raw materials (mainly
coking coal) and export of excess finished products. The project was
implemented and commissioned in collaboration with British Steel
Corporation under a general know-how and technical assistance agreement.
The project was completed successfully, a few months behind schedule and
with some cost overruns due to the particularities of the project
(greenfield plant in an underdeveloped region, new staff, period of high
inflation throughout the world, etc.). The plant is now operating close to
rated capacity producing high-quality non-flat products at internationally
competitive costs.
,05       In 1976, the Bank approved a loan of US$95.0 million for the
second stage of the SICARTSA program (Appraisal Report No. 1060-ME of
June 15, 1976) designed to produce 1.7 million tpy of flat steel products
(hot and cold rolled coils and sheets). The Government of Mexico, which
changed shortly after the approval of the loan, decided to reconsider the
project and consequently cancelled the Bank loan. A new project, based on
direct reduced iron ore, producing different flat products (heavy plate),
was presented to the Bank in 1979/80. The Bank decided not to participate
because the market demand analysis for the new product was considered
insufficient. The project, SICARTSA II, is still under construction with
financial and technical assistance from Japan and che United Kingdom.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy - Recent Structural Changes
2.01      Following three decades of high and stable economic growth from
the 1940s through the 1960s, the Mexican economy started to slow down in
the early 1970s. The Government attempted to foster growth through
expansion of the public sector. The oil boom of the mid-1970s induced
further inflationary expansion that led to a basic disequilibrium, which
accelerated external borrowing. This brought about a generalized financial
crisis in 1982. Since its onset in August 1982, there has been a growing
recognition that a return to sustainable growth would require not only
stabilization policies, but also far reaching structural reforms on the
supply side of the economic structure. This perception gained ground after
the 1982 stabilization program faltered in late 1985 (partly due to
insufficient focus on structural change) and became a central issue
following the collapse of international oil prices in early 1986. The
Government responded to the 1985/86 crisis by intensifying stabilization
measures and introducing significant structural changes focusing on trade
liberalization, encouraging private sector activity and reducing the role
of the public sector while increasing its efficiency. Implementation of
trade liberalization measures was accelerated in 1987.
2.02      The most fundamental policy reform in this economic program is
the shift from inward-oriented protected growth towards an



-3-
outward-oriented, open market development strategy, based on gradually
declining protection and eliminating price controls to improve the
efficiency and export competitiveness of the economy. Such a shift is
particularly significant to the steel sector in terms of the implicatinas
of trade liberalization, the elimination of domestic price controls on
steel products and the role of external competition in bringing efficiency
and market response to the sector. The steel sector is part of the
infrastructure for downstream engineering industries with considerable
export potential, and as such its competitiveness in price, quality and
service will play a strategic role in the success of the new
outward-oriented development model.
2.03      A second fundamental structural change is the decision to clarify
the role of the public sector in the production side of the economy by
improving the performance and reducing the influence cf state-owned
enterprises and actively stimulating the private sector. Along tb'se
lines, the Government has intensified its efforts in divestiture, selling,
merging, closing and/or transferring of several public sector firms, and in
industrial restructuring. In particular, in the steel sector there has
been substantial progress along these lines in 1986. SIDERMEX has shut
down one of its largest integrated plants. The company itself has been
reorganized with large numbers of its subsidiary companies 5ol4, liquidated
or transferred and further measures, of which this project i, an important
step, are being planned. The end result of this process will be a smaller
but more efficient public sector, coupled with a growing private sector
placed in a framework of healthy intervational competition.
B. The Steel Sector
2.04      The Mexican steel industry is of substantial size with a
theoretical installed capacity in 1987 of just over 9.0 mtpy of crude
steel. After relatively modest growt!s in the 1940s and 1950s, highly
protectionist policies, heavy government investment and large budgetary
transfers and input subsidies allowed the industry to grow rapidly in the
1960s and 19709, at 10.2X and 7.5% p.a., respectively, with production
basically in balance with consumption. During the oil boom of 1976-81,
demand for steel products grew substantially faster (14.9Z p.a.) than
production (9% p.a.) and imports increased from 0.3 to 2.5 mtpy in that
period. The economic crisis of 1982 severely hit the steel industry;
domestic steel demand contracted by about 45X, imports by 86Z, and domestic
production by 13X. The debt burden of the companies grew out of all
proportion, and cash flow problems led to inadequate maintenance and a
backlog in technological development. After 1983, there was some recovery,
but neither consumption nor production reached the 1981 level (Annex 2-1).
2.05      At the end of 1986, the steel industry employment was nearly
65,000 and the annual production was 7.2 million tonnes of ' ude steel and
5.6 million tonnes of finished products. The production and consumption of
steel products in the country was basically in balance. The overall
production and consumption balance has changed from net imports of
US$1,750 million in 1981 to an import/export balance at about
US$260 million of finished products in 1986 (Annex 2-1).



- 4-
C. Structure and Main Institutions
2.06      In its present structure, the industry comprises five integrated
prodacers and 23. non-integrated mini-mills, and a number of Independent
rerollers scattered throughout the country. There are effectively two
major operating entities in the sector, SIDERMEX and HYLSA, which account
for over 80% of the production, value added and employment. More details
are in Annex 2-1. Map IBRD 20418 shows the main steel plant locations. At
present the Mexican steel industry receives practically all its raw
material supplies (iron ore, coking coal and flux) from internal sources
with the exception of (i) steel scrap, a large part of which is imported,
and (ii) occasional small quantities of coking coal or pellets for
SICARTSAe Mexico's reserves of iron ore are low grade and relatively small
while proven coking coal reserves in the north are larger and richer (see
Annex 2-2). Map IBRD 20419 shows the location of the main iron and coal
mines in the country.
2.07      Several government agencies are involved in policy formulation,
control and promotion of the steel industry in Mexico. The most important
is the Secretariat of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industry (Secretaria de
Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal - SEMIP) which directly supervises
SIDERMEX in terms of both current operations and investment policies and
programs. SEMIP's influence extends beyond its public sector role.
Although formal authority over industrial policies in general and steel
sector policy in particular rests with the Secretariat of Commerce and
Industrial Development (Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial -
SECOFI), the predominant position of SIDERMEX insures that, in practice,
SIDERMEX and SEMIP exercise substantial influence on government policy
formulation for the steel sector, including such matters as price controls,
quotas and trade restrictions, tariff levels, subsidies and investment
plans and programs. Besides SEMIP and SECOFI, a third major player in the
Government's policy-making role is the Secretariat of Planning and
Budgeting (Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto - SPP); it coordinates
the preparation of medium-term plans, approves the capital and annual
operating budgets of the parastatal steel companies, and monitors their
implementation.
2.08      SIDERMEX was established in 1979, to manage the activity of the
three public steel companies: AHMSA, FMSA, SICARTSA and their 87
subsidiaries in mining, downstream manufacturing, marketing and
distribution, and real estate. Although, SIDERMEX was initially successful
in coordinating the strategic activities of the public steel sector, it did
so at the expense of excessive centralization of commercial, financial and
operational activities in the hands of a corporate management, leading to
inefficient plant operation. The centralization of a large part of the
decision making authority also resulted in an isolation of the SIDERMEX
plants from the needs of the ,arkets, The organizational and legal
structure were complicated. The large number o' subsidiaries with very
wide ranging missions diluted the management effort.
2.09      The operating performance of the SIDERMEX steel companies varied
substantial'y, reflecting the technology in place, the state of repair of
the facilities and the stability and the competence of the plant management



- 5 -
concerned. The unfavorable economic environment in which these companies
operated (low controlled output prices, depressed market, etc.) led to high
operational losses compounded by very high debt service obligations. By
1986, SIDERMEX debt exceeded US$1.75 billion equivalent, of which roughly
US$0.9 billion equivalent was foreign debt. A substantial portion of this
debt represented the financing of non-performing assets, including over 50%
in the SICARTSA II facility still under construction and awaiting further
decision on its target completion. The earning power of the remaining
assets was considerably lower than their book values and considerably
diminished by the state of disrepair, the technical and organizational
inefficiencies, and the lack of coherent government policies towards the
sector. By the end of 1985 it had become obvious that no serious
improvement could be made in the performance of the public sector companies
without deep changes in the organizational and financial structure of
SIDERMEX and in the economic environment surrounding the steel sector.
Consequently, early in 1986, the GOM appointed a new management team and
gave it the mandate to implement the major steps of a restructuring program
aimed at restoring SIDERMEX efficiency and competitiveness and to
restructure its organization, financial position, management and
operations. The restructuring program is discussed in Chapter IV.
2.10      HYLSA vas founded in 1942 as a tin reroller.  In the 1950s HYLSA
developed the first industrial process for production of direct reduced
(DR) sponge iron with operation starting in 1957. The company grew
steadily, through the 1950s and 1960s establishing a non-flat product
facility in 1969 and integrating it backwards through an improved DR
process. Over the years, HYLSA remained the major cash earner for the Alfa
Industrial Conglomerate (Grupo Industrial Alfa - Alfa).  In the 1970s, Alfa
undertook a substantial diversification program financed in part through
the HYLSA cash engine. The economic crises of the early 1980. left HYLSA
and the parent Alfa saddled with an extraordinary debt burden. The
financial restructuring of the Alfa debt was completed in 1986 and a number
of activities are being spun off. HYLSA's debt burden reached
US$1.15 billion equivalent at the end of 1986, about 25% of which
represented mounting payments arrears. The bulk of the debt is owed to
foreign (mainly US) commercial banks. A financial restructuring package
has been negotiated that allows for conversion of up to US$375 million of
HYLSA's debt into equity and provides for flexibility in repayment of the
remaining debt through separation into mandatory and optional tranches,
each bearing different rates of interest. The agreement also provides for
HYLSA's implementing its capital expenditure program aimed at rest.Jring its
competitiveness. Provision is also made for infusion of new debt in
support of the capital program. The restructuring package and related
terms have been drawn up but remain to be cleared by all the institutions
involved. A final signed package is expected to be completed in mid-1988.
The restructuring package provides an acceptable and reasonable basis for
HYLSA to resolve its financial crisis and allow it to remain as a major
producer in the Mexican steel sector.
2.11      The other entities in the sector, TAMSA and the semi-integrated
producers and rerollers, have been founded mainly in the past 20 years,
with TAMSA being the oldest at over 35 years. Its activities, however,
fall outside the direct ambit of the traditional steel product markets, its



- 6 -
main product - seamless pipes - being for use mainly in oil exploration.
TAMSA's financial position has deteriorated in the past three years. The
company is burdened with over US$600 million equivalent in term debt, over
60X of which is owed to foreign commercial banks. A substantial part of
this debt was incurred in financing a major plant expansion in the early
1980s based on optimistic views of the oil industry and consequent demand
projections for oil field products. Although TAMSA is seeking a
restructuring agreement with its creditor banks its very specialized
production profile serving a specific market (mainly PEMEX) would only
constitute a small part of the whole steel sector restructuring. Several
smaller producers including those involved in stainless and specialty
steels are also facing financial structure problems. As a condition of the
proposed project, NAPIN will make available funds from other sources,
including existing Bank credit lines to all of these producers including
TAMSA for assistance in preparation of physical, organizational or
financial restructuring studies.
2.12      All steel companies are grouped under a steel producers'
association, the Camara Nacional de la Industria del Hierro y del Acero
(CANACERO), which has mainly functioned as a spokesman for the industry, as
a forum for exchange of basic market and technical information, and as a
lobby for favorable steel policies. CANACERO's influence on policy has
been minimal, however, reflecting the past divergence of opinions on
fundamental policy issues such as price controls, tariff and quota
protection, etc. between the private sector producers and the SIDERMEX
group. Moreover, the protective environment of the 19609 and 19709 and the
substantial market control and price levels of that era provided little
incentive to the steel industrv to develop an effective association. The
recent structural changes in the Mexican economy and the consequent adverse
impact on the steel sector have brought about a change in attitudes as well
and CANACERO is now beginning to take a more active role in lobbying on
behalf of the industry's interests in a more unified manner.
D. The Policy Framework
2.13      The steel industry is an important part of Mexico's manufacturing
sector and has significant impact on the availability, cost and quality of
material inputs for downstream manufacturing, particularly, the engineering
and capital goods industries. Over the past two decades, the Government
has created and applied a policy framework intended to be favorable to this
industry. This framework was successful in creating a steel industry able
to meet the steel demand of the country in quantitative terms, but one that
is now unable to satisfy the expectations of supplying low-cost and
high-quality steel products to the market place. The highly protectionist
trade policies before 1985 (Annex 2-3) included:
(a)  quantitative restrictions, that covered 100% of imports in 1982
and 1983;
(b)  high tariffs (up to 401 for steel products);
(c)  unrealistically high official reference prices, that served as
the basis for calculating the amount of custom duties, resulting
in a substantial increase of duties to be paid;



- 7 -
(d) domestic content requirements for capital goods and automotive
industries; and
(e) public sector procurement practices which gave preference to
domestic products over imports.
This trade regime had created an inward oriented industry that faced very
limited import competition making it difficult for the downstream users
(especially for the export-oriented manufacturers of engineering products)
to obtain high-quality, competitively priced steel products in needed
specifications, lot sizes and delivery schedules.
2.14      The key policy issue addressed in the restructuring project and
the proposed loan is the decontrol of steel prices which have been set in
the last two years below both the total cost of the efficient Mexican
producers and below the actual landed cost of imports (not including
tariffs). As discussed in Annex 2-3, the price control deprives the
producers of the financial benefit of protection and does not provide any
incentive for improvement of product quality and service to customers. In
addition, the low level of profitability and return on investment
discourages entry of new private investment capital into the sector. In
other words, the price control offsets the resource generating benefit of
the protection while all the negative impact of the protection remains in
full effect both for the steel industry and for the downstream users.
2.15      An important element of the Government's policy towards the steel
industry is its direct participation in the production activities.
The public steel sector was created as a result oi the takeover of the then
two largest private sector steel producers, AHMSA and PMSA, in order to
save them from bankruptcy and to avoid the layoff of thousands of workers.
In the 1970s, the Government establinhed a new integrated steel works,
SICART8A, partly to meet the fast growing domestic demand, partly to
promote the development of the remote region of Lazaro Cardenas.
Government policy regarding its direct investment in steel has changed
substantially in the last two years. Action has been taken to streamline
the public sector steel companies, to stop uneconomic activities and spin
off non-essential plants. After years of futile efforts to convert FMSA
into a healthy, profit-making company, the Government closed it in April
1986. Further public investment plans have been reduced drastically and a
large number of SIDERMEX subsidiaries have been or will be transferred,
sold or liquidated (Chapter IV).
2.16      Despite the increasing clarity on the public sector's investment
strategy, Mexico lacks a global steel policy and long-term strategy,
clearly defining the respective roles of the public and private sectors,
and assuring the conformity between the development plans and the expected
needs of the market. The present situation discourages major investments
in the private sector and makes it very difficult to develop optimal
investment programs in both the public and private sectors. The Steel
Sector Restructuring Project and proposed Bank loan will, among others,
address this situation through the elabcration by GOM of a Global Steel
Sector Policy Statement based on the Policy Letter (Annex 4-2) that was
presented by GOM at negotiations.



-8-
III. THE STRATEGIC ISSUES AND BASES FOR SECTOR REFORM
A. Strengths and Weaknesses
3.01      A detailed analysis of the Mexican steel industry's current
operating performance, cost and quality competitiveness, and its strengths
and weaknesses was carried out under the sector strategy study completed in
1986. The main findings and conclusions of that analysis are presented in
Annex 3-1. The technical comparisons of the major steel plant operations
in the country lead to the following main conclusions:
(a) non-flat products are by and large produced in modern facilities
in both the private and public sector and are quality and cost
competitive with international norms; the sole exception is
AHNSA's outdated facility; the strategic implications are
discussed in para 3.07 and 3.08 below;
(b) the industry's main weakness lies in the quality and cost of its
flat product lines at both AHMSA and HYLSA; modernization of
these facilities would enable both producers to substantially
improve their competitiveness and strategic position.
3.02      The mining operations are analyzed in Annex 2-2 and Annex 3-2.
The main conclusion from this analysis are:
(a) coking coal and iron ore production in Mexico appear competitive
from economic and financial points of view, and can be expected
to maintain this position if no major shifts in relative costs
(labor, energy, transport) occur;
(b) coking coal production shows substantial potential for further
cost and quality improvements as older mines are closed and new
mines are opened with concomitant changes in mining techniques
and higher productivity;
(c) iron ore is generally of lower grade but even with higher
processing costs is competitive as inputs to the steel industry
on both an economic and financial basis; and
(d) there is small room for improvement in two of the iron mines
because they are nearing depletion; the remaining three iron
mines and the coal mines could show improved cost performance
through increased capacity utilization rates.*
3.03      The marketing and distribution practices and infrastructure have
been deficient, particularly those of SIDERMEX. Past protectionist
policies held back the development of an efficient and competitive
distribution network. This deficiency has particularly affected the
smaller companies in the engineering industries and capital goods, which
have suffered from inadequate and unpredictable supply of steel products.



-9-
B. The Strategic Issues
3.04      An analysis of the present and potential steel market demand and
supply in Mexico is presented as Annex 3-3. Domestic producers are
presently unable to supply high-quality steels to the domestic market,
particularly for the rapidly growing capital goods and manufactured metal
products subsectors. Mexican producers in these subsectors have potential
comparative advantages in three significant areas, viz., labor cost,
proximity to substantial riarkets, and indigenous resources. Recent
government policy changes have added an additional factor that has spurred
rapid growth and an export-oriented internationally competitive approach.
As a result, this segment of t.he steel market is the most demanding in
terms of the quality dimension and cost competitiveness. The ability of
the steel industry, and particularly the flat product producers, to adapt
to the changing needs of this segment of the steel market is a key factor
in Its future growth.
3.05      The bases for projecting steel demand are an assumption of a
modest rate of growth of 3-4% p.a. of GDP in the next five years and a
further opening of the Mexican economy which is expected to lead to a
faster-than-average growth of the manufacturing industry. This is expected
to result in an average growth in demand through 1991 of about 4.4% p.a.
from the 1986 level for flat products, 3.2% p.a. for non-flats and 3.5%
p.a. for seamless tubes, or 3.8% p.a. for all products.
3.06      Although overall demand growth is projected to be slow, there are
major opportunities for the Mexican steel industry in diversification of
the product mix and improvement of product quality to capture a greater
share of the specialized market segments that show higher than average
growth potential. The strategic analysis described in Annex 3-1 indicates
that from a wide range of flat and non-flat products, Mexican producers
have considerable potential for improvement of their competitiveness to
cover not only their short-run marginal cost, but their long-run economic
costs as well (see paras 8.08-8.10). The restructuring Fcogram in the
short run and the proposed project are designed to tap thts potential which
would benefit both the steel industry and its downstream tiers particularly
in the capital goods and manufactured metal products subsectors.
3.07      The main conclusions from an assessment of the industry's
strategic position in relation to the potential market demand and taking
into account the industry's cost and quality factors are that the steel
industry is well placed in the non-flat product area. The opportunity that
needs to be tapped is the demand for high-quality bar products that could
be produced in SICARTSA's modern facilities and the shift of these
facilities from export to domestic production. However, the AHMSA non-flat
product lines are clearly in a weak strategic position with respect to cost
and quality. Abandonment of these lines could provide the private sector
producers with the opportunity to expand production, provided the pricing
incentives are in place. Structural profiles are an exception to this
general thrust. Further analysis shows that AHMSA should continue to
produce structural steel profiles (wide flanges, beams, etc.) as well as
modify its structurals mill to produce rails for the domestic market (see
also para 8.09).



- 10 -
3.08      The strategic thrust that can be derived from the analysis is
that, in the short and medium term, Mexico should (i) concentrate on
improving the quality and cost factors in the flat product lines; and
(ii) focus its most modern non-flat facilities on the internal markets to
service a demand for higher-quality products. With regard to raw material
resources, a crucial issue is whether available iron ore reserves and the
capacity of existing mines and new projects will be able to satisfy future
demand of the steel industry. As a general conclusion, local supply
sources, based on current reserve estimates would be sufficient to meet
iron ore demand fully in the short and medium term, and coking coal demand
in the longer term, well into the next century. Periodic reassessments of
these global forecasts will obviously have to be made in the light of new
exploration results.
C. Agenda for Policy Reform
3.09      The strategic development issues facing the Mexican steel
industry also have a major impact on future trade liberalization. The
policy reform proposals which underlie the comprehensive program of
restructuring are aimed at creating the framework under which the steel
industry can achieve greater competitiveness in the coming years and
thereby open the way for liberalization measures affecting downstream
industries. Annex 2-3 presents an analysis of the main policy reform
proposals.
3.10      Given that the program of trade liberalization and tariff
reduction has already been agreed, the most critical element in the
short-term agenda for policy reform is the elimination of domestic price
controls. As discussed in greater detail in Annex 2-3, this will permit
the rise of domestic steel prices to their opportunity cost levels and
eventually, as quality improves with the project, to the level of CIF plus
tariff. This measure would also allow the steel producers to obtain the
financial benefits of the announced tariff policy and, thereby, generate
the funds necessary for adequate maintenance of facilities, upgrading of
technology and servicing of the debt. It would also allow the Government
to eliminate budgetary transfers averaging about US$75-100 million a year
to cover both operational losses and to support capital expenditures in the
public sector and indirect subsidies to the industry as a whole. It would
attract needed new investment capital to the steel sector, and will lead to
efficient import competition forcing domestic producers to improve quality
and product mix and to serve better their customers. This will
substantially improve the supply of steel products in the domestic market
as producers become more specialized and more competitive. These measures
would further facilitate movement towards liberalizing domestic content
requirements in downstream manufacturing industries, such as auto parts,
for which a broader approach is foreseen. The proposed policy reforms in
the steel sector are vital in ensuring greater competitiveness in both cost
and quality terms.
3.11      The steel sector report prepared by the Bank recommended that a
global steel sector policy be elaborated by Government with active
participation of the private sector. This policy should include a clear
statement of Government's intent in order to encourage private sector
investments and permit it to seek its market niches and exploit its



- 11 -
comparative advantages in an effective manner. The first practical step in
this direction has been the completion of a comprehensive, in-depth market
study which serves as a basis for the medium and long-term strategy. The
main objective of the study was to review the structural changes occurring
in the demand for steel products, identify the market niches that present
the greatest opportunities for domestic steel producers, and assess the
basis for longer-term market growth, so that appropriate supply strategies
can be defined and implemented. Consultants were appointed under the aegis
of CANACERO and the study was completed in October 1987. This study
provides the input for the strategic planning study that has been
undertaken by SIDERMEX and for other less formal studies by the private
sector producers. The Government has agreed to elaborate the Global Steel
Sector Policy Statement by July 31, 1988, i.e., after the presentation of
the SIDERMEX Long-range Strategic Plan (para 4.10). The Government's
Policy Letter, providing the outline for the Steel Sector Reform Program,
is discussed in para 4.02.
3.12      While no specific annual targets are included in the policy
reform program concerning budgetary transfers and subsidies, the
Government's clear intentions, as articulated in the SIDERMEX convenio and
confirmed in the Policy Letter (para 4.02), are to reduce and eliminate
direct and indirect subsidies and transfers to the public sector
companies. With the expected implementation of the recommended policy
changes, the steel industry will be able to operate, modernize and even
modestly expand on the basis of its sales revenues. The total elimination
of direct subsidies and government transfers to the steel industry is also
expected to occur in a relatively short time.
IV. THE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A. Objectives
4.01      The Steel Sector Restructuring Program involving public and
private sector producers is an important element in Mexico's general
adjustment process. Reflecting the strategic thrust described in
para 3.08, major objectives of the program are to maintain, enhance and
restore the sector's competitiveness and restructure its technical,
financial and organizational characteristics:
(a) On the policy side by:
(i)  eliminating domestic price controls, reducing and making
uniform tariffs on steel products and eliminating official
reference prices in line with the agreed calendar of trade
policy reforms, so as to assure competitiveness in the
marketplace; and
(ii)  reducing and eventually eliminating government subsidies to
producers.
(b) On the technical side by:
(i) closing down uneconomic operations, reducing or eliminating
production inefficiencies, and optimizinag existing and



- 12 -
planned new facilities in terms of the product mix and
markets served;
(ii) carrying out economically justified immediate and urgent
investments in catch-up maintenance, debottlenecking of
existing productive facilities, quality control and
productivity improvements; and
(iii)  undertaking the market and technical studies needed to plan
for the longer-term investment needs of the sector.
(c)  On the organizational side by:  improving the management and
organization of SIDERMEX by decentralizing the decision-making
process and devolving operating responsibilities to the steel,
mining and other operating units, placing particular emphasis on
their market responsiveness.
(d)  On the financial side by:  improving the financial condition of
SIDERMEX, the major private sector producers, HYLSA and TAMSA,
and other semi-interrelated producers by undertaking needed
financial restructuring and financial engineering of their
balance sheets.
B. Global Policy Actions
4.02      Following discussions on the underlying trade and price control
policy framework, a number of actions have been taken as part of the
Government's trade liberalization program, supported by the Bank's First
(TPL I, Loan No. 2745-ME) and Second (TPL II, Loan No. 2882-ME) Trade
Policy Loans. Import tariffs for finished non-flat steel products were
reduced in 1986 from 40% to 37%, and on most flat products were reduced
from 25% to 20%. Recently, tariffs on all steel products were reduced to
0% to 15%. All quantitative restrictions for import of steel products were
eliminated. The Government's policy actions are included in the Policy
Matrix (Annex 4-1) and in the Policy Letter providing an outline of
Government intentions with respect to the steel sector (Annex 4-2). These
action measures and policy intentions constitute the Steel Sector Reform
Program, summarized as follows:
(a)  The Government plans to open the steel market in Mexico to
international competition so that the manufacturing sector will
benefit from high-quality, low-cost input materials. Changes
include the elimination of quantitative restrictions and official
reference prices for imported steel products. In December 1987
tariffs were reduced to 0% to 15%.
(b)  Steel price controls will be totally eliminated not later than
December 31, 1988. Prior to this event, the Government will
continue to adjust the domestic prices of all steel products
monthly based on the anticipated changes in the Consumer Price
Index in order to dampen any possible sharp increases and
fluctuations that might occur after complete price decontrol.
The price increases accorded in December 1987 and January 1988
have already brought all domestic product prices to or above
equivalent international landed price levels and continued
adjustments will maintain the domestic price levels in real
terms.



- 13 -
(c) Through these policy changes the Government seeks to provide a
stable long-run framework of trade and domestic industrial
policies that in the new open market environment will provide the
necessary incentives for efficient production of quality products
and the conditions necessary for proper long-term planning. It
is the Government's intention to maintain these policies in order
to ensure the development of an internationally competitive steel
industry able to operate without further protection.
(d) The Government has taken significant restructuring steps with its
parastatal steel company, SIDERMEX, including (i) thhe closing of
the inefficient steel plant, Fundidora de Monterrey ;.A.;
(ii) the financial and organizational restructuring cf SIDERMEX;
and (iii) the closure, spin-off, reduction and consolidation of
its subsidiary companies. The Government plans to continue the
transformation of SIDERMEX into an effective holding company that
performs strategic management and general supervisory functions
over the entire parastatal steel sector.
(e) By March 31, 1988, SIDERMEX will publish a Long-term Strategic
Plan which will include details of the remaining restructuring
work and the investment program supported by the proposed Bank
loan. This plan will elaborate further on the issues regarding
management and organization as well as details pertaining to
facilities to be operated and products to be produced in the next
five years. Government investment will be limited to further
balancing and technical upgrading of existing facilities and to
completion of existing projects that are shown to be economically
and financially viable.
(f) In the long term the Government plans to eliminate all budgetary
transfers to SIDERMEX. After the publication of the SIDERMEX
Strategic Plan, Government will further elaborate and publish a
Global Steel Sector Policy Statement, not later than July 31,
1988, substantially along the lines indicated in the Policy
Letter. tn particular, the Global Policy will be consistent with
both the guiding principles of the SIDERMEX Strategic Plan and
with the Plan itself. These actions will clearly define the
scope and extent of the public sector's investment and operating
strategies and investment plans, and will, thereby, allow the
private sector to plan its own operations and investments. The
Government's goal is to continue the transformation of the sector
into a group of solvent and viable companies with well-maintained
facilities, producing internationally competitive products to
better serve the country's downstream users including the growing
export-oriented manufacturing industries.
As they are vital to the short- and long-term success of the
restructuring effort, and to the viability of the physical
investments to be implemented under this project, the continued
maintenance of the price decontrol and trade liberalization
measures is a covenant of the entire proposed loan.



- 14 -
C.  SIDERMEX
Overall Restructuring Thrust
4.03      Significant progress has been made by the Government with regard
to the restructuring of SIDERMEX operations and following actions have been
taken:
(a) The country's least viable and most loss-ridden steel plant, FMSA
at Monterrey was closed in May 1986;
(b) The Government and SIDERMEX worked out a comprehensive
restructuring program of the public steel sector and in
September 1986, signed an agreement (Convenio), which provided
for major financial restructuring of SIDERMEX companies (AHMSA
and SICARTSA), defined the overall program of physical plant
restructuring and organizational changes to be carried out with
Government assistance, and specified SIDERMEX obligations in
terms of performance improvements, productivity targets and
profitability goals.
(c) The corporate structure of SIDERMEX was rationalized, with
devolution of responsibility for all operating, marketing and
financial activities from corporate level to the plant operating
levels. The number of corporate employees was reduced from 1,070
to approximately 800 with further reductions contemplated.
(d) A large part of SEMIP's decision making authority was delegated
to SIDERMEX corporate management; and
(e) The process of rationalization of the size and profile of
SIDERMEX has been initiated. Ten of the former SIDERMEX
subsidiaries have been transferred under direct control of
SEMIP. A process of sale of 22, liquidation of 20, and
consolidation of the remaining companies into 24 units has seen
started, and substantially completed (see para 4.06).
4.04      The SIDERMEX Restructuring Program incorporated in the Convenio
addresses the most urgent aspects of operational changes needed to restore
SIDERMEX's competitive position, including the rehabilitation of existing
facilities and undertaking the organizational and financial changes to
accomplish the basic objectives. The Convenio provided that SIDERMEX would
launch these actions as a medium-term program, while studying a longer-term
strategic plan to be decided upon and implemented as soon as the requisite
financing plan and detailed investigations were ready. The proposed
project addresses the implementation of the medium-term restructuring.
Organizational Changes
4.05      At the beginning of 1986, SIDERMEX consisted of 3 integrated
steel plants and 87 subsidiaries. Most of the subsidiaries were engaged in
activities not closely related to the steelmaking and marketing process.
The decision of the Government was to keep in the SIDERMEX group the large
integrated steel producers, the coal and ore mines, some of the marketing



- 15 -
network, ferro alloy producers, and the production of refractory
materials. The rest will be divested from the SIDERMEX portfolio. At the
end of the reorganization process, SIDERMEX will have 2 integrated steel
plants, a raw materials operating group and 24 related subsidiaries mainly
in mining of iron ore and coal, and production of refractories.
4.06      A major change that is an integral part of the current phase of
SIDERMEX restructuring is the shut down of its most problematic plant, FMSA
at Monterrey. This was a painful decision, since it liquidated nearly
9,000 direct jobs and many thousa;ds of indirect jobs. Associated mines
have since then also been shut down affecting some 2,000 workers in small
communit.es. SIDS-RMEX and the Government have examined the social
implications of these changes and after discussions with the trade unions,
have agreed on compensation measures. After the signing of the Convenio in
1986, the restructuring process continued with ten of the former SIDERMEX
subsidiaries transferred under direct control of SEMIP and 42 companies
being sold to the private sector or liquidated. The remaining 35
subsidiaries are being consolidated into 24 units. Furthermore, the mining
subsidiaries are being grouped into a single holding company, CMC, with its
financial structure being rationalized through a recapitalization program
aimed at eliminating inter-company debts, and allowing for transparency in
the transfer pricing sales between the mining group and the steel plants
(see para 7.07).
4.07      The Convenio will transform SIDERMEX into a holding company that
performs strategic management and general supervisory functions over the
parastatal steel sector. The responsibility and autonomy of the plant
management will be substantially increased. The marketing and production
planning activity has already been transferred from the SIDERMEX corporate
management to the plants. The new organization, which is already in place
administratively, will -Je legally formalized in 1988 not later than 90 days
after loan signature (para 5.14). It will group all operations under five
independent operational entities: AEMSA, SICARTSA, the raw materials
division under the corporate name Carbon y Minerales Coahuila S.A. (CMC),
Refractories and related operations, and international marketing and other
non-technical units. This reorganization will considerably improve the
management of both the steel producing and non-steel related companies.
Financial Restructuring
4.08      In the framework of the Convenio, the Government assumed and
converted to equity about US$883 million equivalent or 50% of the
US$1.75 billion equivalent total debt of the SIDERMEX companies. Another
US$250 million of FMSA debt will be dealt with in the bankruptcy process of
that enterprise. The conversion of debt includes essentially all capital
repayment falling due in 1986, 1987 and M9A8 and the interest payable from
February to September 1986. This operation makes the debt more realistic
and manageable, but does not offer a final solution of the problem,
especially if account is taken of the growth of debt expected in relation
with the possible continuation of the SICARTSA II investment.
Decontrolling prices would permit the companies to generate a large portion
of the funds needed to service the debt, but probably further financial
restructuring measures will be needed in the future, including a possible
write-down of some remaining SIDEIMEX assets which consultants will review
under the project (para 4.12).



- 16 -
Technical Restructuring
4.09      Key weaknesses in the mines and steel plants are due to
insufficient funds in recent years allocated for maintenance and facility
upgrading that have resulted in higher operating costs and lower product
quality. In addition, technical improvements, particularly in automation
and systems development, have not been carried out even in the more modern
facilities. The sector strategy review and the competitiveness analyses
carried out earlier have identified that the product mix of the plants do
not fully correspond to (i) the requirements of the market, (ii) the
technical conditions of the plants, and (iii) the possibilities of
specialization between the large public and private producers. There is
general technical agreement between SIDERMEX and the Bank that certain
specialization should be developed among the public and private sector
plants, e.g., flat products at AHMSA and HYLSA and non-flat products at
SICARTSA I and in the private sector. Taking into account this strategic
thrust and existing technical weaknesses, SIDERMEX has developed the
short-term investment program with the assistance of US Steel Engineering
Consultants (para 5.11) that is the basis for the project components
described in Chapter V.
Long7term Action
4.10      By the end of the proposed project, SIDERMEX is expected to be a
group of solvent and viable companies with well maintained facilities,
producing internationally competitive quality products at lower cost than
now and with an adequate product mix to better serve the downstream
steel-consuming industries. However, this immediate phase of the
restructuring process does not include all the potentially needed
modernization, balancing or the completion of the investments in progress.
SIDERMEX is therefore carrying out a long-term strategy study to define the
basis for its development through the 1990s. The Strategic Plan will be
consistent with the guiding principles spelt out in the Policy Letter
(para 4.02(e) and (f)). Terms of reference for this work were reviewed and
agreed by the Bank. British Steel Corporation Overseas Services (BSCOS)
was selected and has carried out the task. SIDERMEX will present its
long-term strategy proposal for Bank review by March 31, 1988. The market
study (para 3.11) has also provided a major planning input to th2e strategy
study. The strategy developed for SIDERMEX will provide the basis for the
Government's Global Steel Policy statement which will define the role of
the public sector and along with the results of the market study the
opportunities available for the private sector.
4.11      The integration of the proposed SICARTSA II investment program
into the SIDERMEX complex is a critical element in the long-term strategy.
The completion of this investment parallel with further facilities
restructuring in the AHMSA plant may lead to excess capacities,
particularly in plate production. Therefore, disetssion with SIDERMEX and
the Government has led to an understanding that alternatives to completion
of SICARTSA II would be evaluated on their technical, economic and
financial merits once the medium-term product and market studies are
completed. Such an evaluation would be completed as part of the
presentation of the SIDERMEX Long-term Strategic Plan and will include:



- 17 -
(a) review and discussion with the Bank of the conclusions and
recommendations of its long-term strategy study in particular, those with
respect to major investments in facilities not included in the now agreed
Restructuring Program and use of facilities not now in operation;
(b) implementation of the agreed elements of the long-term strategy in
accordance with investment criteria, financing plans and implementation
schedules that are acceptable to the Bank; and (c) annual review of the
plani and progress achieved.
4.12      In reviewing the SIDERMEX financial restructuring already
effected by the Government, and in particular, the financial pi. pects for
its steel companies, it has became apparent that there is a need for
further balance sheet restructuring, including revaluation of the fixed
asset base in relation to the earnings potential and a corresponding
writedown of the equity base, so that future SIDERMEX financial performance
is measured against achievable financial return criteria and reflects the
overall cost of equity and loan capital. It has been agreed that within
six months after the signing of the loan documents SIDERMEX will carry out,
based on agreed Terms of Reference: (i) a complete analysis and
revaluation of its fixed assets, including fixed assets of all of its
subsidiaries, and (ii) an adjustment and updating of the relevant balance
sheets based on these results.
D. Private Sector
4.13      The most important elements of the restructuring needs of the
private sactor pertain to the current financial situation at HYLSA and
TAMSA, the two integrated producers. Other private sector producers, in
general, appear to be in relatively satisfactory financial condition,
although profit margins have eroded in recent years and iivestment risks
increased. The policy reform package described in para 4.02, by and large,
would be sufficient of itself to strengthen the financial position of the
smaller, non-integrated steel producers and to provide the right signals to
them to reinvest in the potentially profitable market niches, and to
attract new entrants to the industry. The case of HYLSA and TAMSA is,
however, more problematic. Financial restructuring is a necessary
condition for their survival as viable and dynamic entities.
4.14      As described in para 2.10, HYLSA owes about US$1.2 billion and in
the present economic environment is not capable of generating sufficient
funds on the existing facilities to fully service this debt. The company
has recently completed negotiations on the restructuring of its debt with
the advisory committee of the creditor banks. Since HYLSA, like the
SIDERMEX companies, did not have sufficient funds in recent years for /
maintenance and upgrading of its facilities, it badly needs to carry out a
major rehabilitation and modernization program. The program has been
defined by HYLSA with consultant assistance (see para 5.12) and forms the
basis for the proposed project component. The implementation of this
program is essential for HYLSA to maintain its competitive edge and retain
its market share in a period when its main coLpetitor, SIDERMEX, is
carrying out a significant improvement program. As discussed in para 2.10,
the restructuring agreement with the banks would allow it to retain
sufficient financial capacity for the implementation of the minimum
invest:ment program. The financial assessment of the HYLSA rehabilitation



- 18 -
component of the project reflects the preliminary agreements reached
between HYLSA and the creditor banks (para 7.08). Signature of the final
agreements with terms acceptable to the Bank is an agreed disbursement
condition for the HYLSA component of the proposed loan (para 6.06).
4.15      Based on the analysis, it appears that, taking into account the
terms of the financing restructuring plan, the major capital investment
needs, and HYLSA's working capital requirements for ongoing operations,
HYLSA would not appear capable of carrying out a successful rehabilitation
and modernization program without financial assistance under the proposed
project. Moreover, the financial restructuring package would permit HYLSA
to obtain additional substantial write-down of the debt burden if part of
the annual free-cash flow in the early years were to be used to retire
debt. To the extent that HYLSA is able to finance at least a part of its
investment needs from new external sources, the restructuring of HYLSA's
balance sheet could be accelerated, resulting in a sounder capital
structure. This would also allow HYLSA to remain a stronger competitor to
the public sector in the domestic market.
4.16      Coupled with the financial restructuring needs (para 2.11), some
technical restructuring involving new technology and upgrading of existing
facilities of smaller producers in the private sector, particularly the
specialty-steels producers, have been identified by the Government.
Although these requirements are not specifically funded under the present
project, NAFIN has agreed that technical assistance for these purposes will
be provided from other funding sources, including existing Bank credit
lines, already available to it. Funding for subsequent investment and
working capital needs would also be channeled through existing credit
lines, including existing Bank loans, with additional funds possibly
included in a proposed Industrial Restru^turing loan.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
5.01      The project is based on the strategic analysis discussed in
Chapter III and supports the policy reform measures discussed in
Chapter IV. Its first objective is to assist the Mexican Government in
implementing a comprehensive and far-reaching reform of the steel sector
and in carrying out the needed restructuring actions. Its second objective
is to assist the major players to rehabilitate potentially efficient plant
and equipment with demonstrable viability, enhance product quality and
reduce product costs, eliminate bottlenecks to achieve better utilization
of existing capacity, improve technical, financial and managerial controls
and information systems, train operations and maintenance staff and develop
the human resources to achieve the overall objectives of greater
competitiveness and responsiveness to market needs. Its final objective is
to assist the Government and the industry in elaborating their long-term
strategies and policies to achieve a healthier development of the steel
sector in line with the country's development objectives. The project
specifically avoids investments in product lines and facilities whose
viability is dependent on the outcome of the ongoing market study and the
SIDERMEX long-term strategy study.



- 19 -
B. Project Description
5.02      The proposed project consists of three parts:  Part A is an Input
Materials and Steel Products Import component tied to implementation of
agreed policy reforms; Part B addresses the restructuring needs of SIDERMEX
and its operating entities; and Part C supports the rehabilitation and
modernization of the HYLSA flat product facilities as part of its
restructuring program.
Part A: Input Materials and Steel Products Import Component
5.03      This component is intended to support the Steel Sector Reform
Program of the Government described in paras 2.13-2.16 and 4.02. This
program is in the process of execution having been launched by the
Government in early 1986 with important components already implemented.
Finalization and implementation of major components, including the
elimination of domestic price controls, are under way. The policy reform
will substantially alter the manner in which the steel industry conducts
its business and develops in the coming years. It is expected that the
further deepening of the reform process will result in increased steel
imports during the adjustment period when the industry will be carrying out
its restructuring and rehabilitation. Accordingly, this component will
support both the consolidation of the already adopted measures and the
introduction of new ones, and would finance a part of the increased imports
during the adjustment period.
5.04      The Government has already carried out twio of the triggering
events, i.e., elimination of ORPs for all steel products, one of the events
for release of Tranche I, and reduction and equalization of tariffs on
steel products to no more than 25%, one of the events for release of
Tranche II. In addition, the price adjustment in mid January 1988 and the
presentation of the Policy Letter at negotiations complete all actions
required for release of the first tranche at loan effectiventss. The
second tranche release will be triggered by final decontrol of all steel
product prices, and the final elaboration of a Global Steel Policy
Statement by the Government. The two tranches will be in equal amounts
(see para 6.12) and will be used to finance eligible imports as set out in
Annex 5-1.
Part B: SIDERMEX Restructuring Program
5.05      The SIDERMEX program includes:  investments in the major flat
product facility, AHMSA, aimed at improving the quality and competitiveness
of its hot and cold rolling lines and improving the utilization of its
heavy section mill through the addition of equipment for the production of
rail; investments in the raw materials division, CMC, to ensure adequate
coal and iron ore supplies for the steel plants; and assistance to SIDERMEX
in strategic planning and other studies.
5.06      The AHMSA component is detailed in Annex 5-2 and concentrates on
shifting the product mix to flat products, heavy structurals and rails with
an overall reduction in steelmaking capacity and improvements in quality
and lowering of costs of production, primarily in hot and cold rolled sheet
and tin plate. The major technical thrust is to (i) rationalize the
steelmaking and continuous casting facilities; (ii) rehabilitate and



- 20 -
improve the quality and productivity of the hot strip mill; (iii) balance
the cold rolling mills and improve the quality of cold rolled products;
(iv) provide catch-up maintenance throughout plant operations and in the
plant-wide utilities and services; (v) expand the product line by using the
underutilized heavy structural mill for the production of rail; and
(vi) provide for enhancement of systems and training. The investments
include, equipment for improvement of the steel-making facilities, the hot
and cold rolling mills, rail section mill and plant-wide maintenances
including utilities and services, as well as services of consultants for
enhancement of management information systems, engineering and project
manage.ent and development of training programs and expenditures for
overseas training of operating personnel. About 900 man-months of
consultant services are included.
5.07      The CMC component is detailed in Annex 5-3 and is concentrated on
raising productivity in the coal mining operations and strengthening the
Hercules iron ore operation, bringing it to its intended level of
operation, through a mixture of maintenance and equipment renewal,
debottlenecking investments, systems and controls and technical assistance
for project management, operational improvements and upgrading of technical
skills. The proposed investments include replacement of mining, transport
and conveyor equipment, purchase of new coal crushers, installation of an
iron ore concentrator facility and consultant services (250 man-months) for
implementation of accounting and management information systems, ana for
project management and training.
5.08      Strategic planning studies for SIDERMEX are detailed in
Annex 5-4. The main objectives of these studies are to assist SIDERMEX
management in: (i) carrying out a long-term strategic study including the
necessary supporting technical studies; (ii) undertaking the corporate-wide
asset revaluation exercise and translating the results into a suitable
financial structure; (iii) implementing the organizational and financing
restructuring measures that emerge after the completio: of the long-term
strategic studies; (iv) assisting in the detailed planning of the long-term
strategic investments; and (v) providing assistance fo: implementation of
corporate level management information systems. To these ends, this
component would include consultant services of about 445 man-months.
Part C: HYLSA Restructuring Program
5.09      The HYLSA program which is detailed in Annex 5-5 concentrates on
improving the competitive advantage of the Flat Products Division through
investments in cost reduction, productivity and quality improvement. Most
importantly, this component is intended to be executed in a timely fashion
to maintain a competitive balance between HYLSA in the private sector and
AHMSA in the public sector, both of whom are pro-siding similar products to
the Mexican steel markets. This component includes: (i) establishing the
production of high-quality slabs from the steelmaking shop; (ii) revamping
and improving the quality and productivity of the hot strip mill; and
(iii) debottlenecking the cold rolling mills and improving the quality and
productivity of these facilities. The physical investments include
equipment for steelmaking and hot and cold rolling mills. In addition,
project management consultant services of about 250 man-months are included



- 21 -
to assist HYLSA in carrying out detailed engineering and project
supervision.
Sector-wide Technical Assistance
5.10      As stated in para 4.16, it was agreed that the identified
requirements for sector-wide technical assistance will be funded separately
by NAFIN from other credit sources including existing Bank credit lines.
Under this concept, NAFIN would finance:
(a) Diagnostic studies for individual private sector companies aimed
at improving operating efficiency and identifying potential for
financial restructuring, rehabilitation and/or expansion.
(b) Feasibility and engineering studies to assist individual private
sector companies to take advantage of new markec opportunities
and arrest existing and potential new threats to their
competitiveness or to assist in preparing proposals for funding
from existing and/or potential Bank-supported investment credit
lines, recommended restructuring, rehabilitation, and operational
improvements including technical assistance for management
development and staff training.
To this end, up to 400 man-month consultant services may be financed by
NAFIN. Satisfactory and timely execution of these activities by NAFIN is
an agreed covenant in the proposed loan operation.
C. Project Management, Organization and Implementation
5.11      The SIDERMEX project beneficiaries - AHHSA, and CMC - have both
had the benefit of qualified international consultant assistance (UEC -
consulting arm of US Steel) in the preparation of the project components.
They are continuing their existing consultant contracts for preparation of
bid specifications pending selection of a consultant to assist with project
management. Terms of reference have been discussed and selection is under
way following Bank guidelines. As CMC's current project management
organization is only now being set up, it has been agreed that CMC will
employ a suitably qualified consultant to assist in project management on
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. CMC has also agreed to
maintain a suitably staffed project management team (see para 5.14) for the
duration of the project.
5.12      HYLSA was assisted by Nippon Kokan of Japan (NKK) in project
preparation and has agreed to follow Bank guidelines in selecting a new
consultant to assist in project management, which will include procurement
assistance, assistance in overall project planning and cost control as well
as basic engineering, construction management and assistance during
commissioning. Terms of reference similar to those at AHMSA have been
prepared. Both AHMSA and HYLSA have agreed, until project completion, to
appoint a Project Manager and retain suitably qualified project management
consultants on terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.13      The project includes retroactive funding (para 6.13), including
consultant preparation work. Terms of reference were agreed for work
already under way and have been reviewed and agreed for the project



- 22 -
managument functions.  SIDERMEX Corporate management will also utilize
const1:tant assistance in strategy studies and development. Terms of
reference were agreed and a.consultant, British Steel Overseas Services
(BSCOS), selected for the first phase of the work.
5.14      In addition to consultant assistance, each operating company and
the SIDERMEX holding company have appointed a senior technical manager as
internal Project Manager with responsibility for seeing to efficient
project implementation. The Project Manager is supported with functional
and line staff as needed in carrying out the project. This is particularly
important as the physical plant rehabilitation is a complex task and
interference with day-to-day operations needs to be minimized, with project
implementation carefully phased into existing production and maintenance
schedules. The companies have agreed to assign staff from the existing
organizational structures as required for the duration of the project.
Since CMC is a new organizaSion a more formal project management team will
be organized. In all cases, however, a senior technical manager will be
appointed as Project Manager and will be supported by (i) technical staff
made up of both operating and engineering parsonnel; (ii) construction
supervisors; (iii) planning and scheduling personnel; (iv) financial, cost
accounting and cost control personnel; and (v) other specialized support as
needed (e.g., procurement, systems and training, etc.) to carry out the
project. This staff will interface with the consultant teams who will
function in an advisory role. Responsibility for project implementation at
each of the operating companies will be in the hands of the Project
Manager. As discussed in para 4.06, the organization of CMC is being
substantially changed through creation of a holding company for all mining
operations. It was agreed that the completion of the conversion of CMC to
a legal holding company for all of the SIDERMEX raw materials holdings must
take place before the distbursement of any project funds to CMC.
5.15      The SIDERMEX holding company has also assigned senior staff to
assist with project implementation. This includes accounting, financial
and legal staff to monitor overall progress and help coordinate project
imple:aentation by the operating units and a second group to handle
strategic planning and the implementation of consultant studies relating to
strategy development, organizational structure, reporting and management
informati-A and control systems, financial studies (includes asset
revaluations) and other restructuring tasks.
5.16      Individual detailed implementation schedules are shown in
Annexes 5-2, 5-3, 5-4 and 5-6 along with detailed project descriptions.
These schedules are summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1
Implementation Schedule
AHMSA            CMC              HYLSA
Bid Documentation Available    January 88       January 88        October 88
Closing                          August 88       August 88          April 89
Contract Award                    April 89          July 89       October 89
Installation of Equipment       October 90          July 90      November 90
Commissioning                   January 91    September 90       February 91



- 23 -
The most critical element in the installation schedule is the delivery time
for major equipment. For the major components up to 18 months is allowed
and although a judicious mix of local and domestic supply may allow for
some shortening of the schedule it will require careful planning and
follow-up. The HYLSA component starts prequalification at a later date
whilst awaiting the conclusion of its debt restructuring arrangements
(para 2.10). The work in the HYLSA plant, however, is expected to proceed
at a faster rate than the others since much of the new equipment is already
on hand. Overall, the work is taking place at existing plant sites with
staff and infrastructure in place. The implementation schedule takes into
account numerous short outages in existing facilities for equipment
installation. With technical staff in place experienced in operations,
engineering and construction it is expected that all work including
start-up will be completed as scheduled after the bid documentation dates.
D. Role of NAFIN
5.17      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN) has been designated by the
Government as the Borrower in this operation. NAFIN is a Government owned
development finance institution, that has ample experience in
administering and onlending Bank loans in Mexico. In this operation it
will (i) borrow from the Bank and onlend to the ultimate beneficiaries
(Government, SIDERMEX companies, HYLSA) the respective components of the
loan (para 6.07); (ii) organize and coordinate the collection and
presentation to the Bank of the documentation concerning imports financed
from the proceeds of the quick disbursing component of the loan
(para 6.12); (iii) assist the ultimate beneficiaries in the loan
administration and accounting and facilitate the financial part of the
supervision of the project (para 6.12); and (iv) serve as a liaison in all
financial matters between the Bank and the ultimate beneficiaries.
5.18      In addition to its direct involvement in the administration of
the Loan, NAPIN will have a further role in assisting the small private
steel producers. In order to avoid unnecessary duplication and
proliferation of new credit lines with all their bureaucratic implications,
funding for initial studies and for later investment and working capital
needs for the small private producers would be channeled through existing
and/or potential new credit lines (para 5.10). Since NAFIN is the Borrower
for some of the existing loans and designated as the Borrower for future
credit lines to the industrial sector, it will serve as a key link between
the Steel Restructuring Project and other operations.
Z. Training and Manpower Development
5.19      Each of the project components includes planned funding for
technical assistance. The most extensive program is planned for the AHMSA
operation which is an older plant where extensive new technology is being
introduced and where the opportunity exists for widespread retraining and
reallocation of human resources. Current plans include a decrease in the
present work force from over 21,000 to approximately 18,000 total
personnel. A human resource development group has been established in the
plant organization to see to planning and implementation of training
programs including general operation and maintenance in addition to the



- 24 -
training that will accompany the purchase, installation and start-up of new
equipment. These programs, which include training abroad, are expected to
bridge the full duration of the project. The new CMC is in the most urgent
need of technical assistance ranging from geological exploration to
training in mining operations and maintenance of all major equipment. This
component includes extensive on-site training and development.
5.20      The HYLSA operation has demonstrated excellent ongoing in-house
training programs for both operations and maintenance. These programs will
continue without the need for additional outside technical assistance.
Specific training on new equipment is included in the estimate which might
also include trairing by suppliers abroad, but beyond assistance in project
management no general technical assistance is included.
5.21      The technical assistance components for AHMSA, CMC and HYLSA
coupled with equipment investments are expected to result in higher
productivity, yield and quality of finished products as well as lower
energy consumption and other significant cost reductions. The integration
of these programs in operating steel plants and at operating mines requires
constant diligence by facility management and their consultants in order to
obtain the operational improvements predicted. Therefore it was agreed
that Action Plans covering these improvements will be developed by AHMSA,
CMC and HYLSA, that include monitorable steps and a timetable of expected
results. The presentation of these Action Plans is a condition of
disbursement of the respective components under Parts B and C of the
project. The Action Plans will also include details on training programs
to be undertaken and results expected therefrom. The development and
satisfactory implementation of these plans will be monitored by the Bank to
ensure satisfactory progress of the AHMSA, CMC and HYLSA components.
F. Environmental Issues
5.22      Restructuring at AHKSA includes rehabilitation of existing air
and water pollution control systems throughout the plant. Annex 5-2,
Appendix 1, provides data on the environmental situation before and after
the project. Measured dust emissions are presently 2,517 kg/hr. With the
shutdown of various facilities and rehabilitation of others, dust emissions
after the project are expected to amount to 996 kg/hr, a reduc51on of over
60% in absolute terms. The major air pollution problem stem3 I q' the
obsolete Siemens Martin open hearth steelmaking shop which contributes
approximately 80% of the dust emissions. The project includes the shutdown
of a major section of this operation. Final elimination of the remaining
open hearths is envisioned in a later phase for AHMSA but would not take
place until the early 1990s. The plant will not meet Mexican and
internationally accepted norms for air pollution until that time. Water
pollution control studies and expenditure are currently budgeted and under
way to bring waste water into compliance by the completion of the project
in 1991. The AHMSA Action Plan includes consultant assistance to further
evaluate and seek specific recommendations to improve the plant's ability
to monitor environmental quality, to ensure pollution control equipment is
installed and maintained properly, and to undertake training in pollution
abatement.



- 25 -
5.23       The CMC and HYLSA operations are already in conformance with
Mexican air and water pollution standards and no change is foreseen as a
result of this project. Mine safety improvements including training and
equipment expenses are included in the CMC portion of the project to bring
about a level of safety standards higher than currently required under
Mexican law but more in line with international standards.
VI . CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCURMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Capital Cost
6.01       The estimated total capital cost of the proposed project is shown
in Table 6.1 below, and amounts to US$810 million equivalent. Incremental
working capital needs are estimated at US$100 million equivalent through
1991, when all elements of the project would be fully operational.
Interest during construction amounts to US$40 million equivalent.
Together with the policy based component of US$100 million, total financing
requirements amount to US$1,050 million equivalent, of which US$596 million
equivalent is in direct and indirect foreign exchange costs.
Table 6.1
wIury Total Estimted Fincidng ieFWe ot
$ billion            US$ million     Z Base   Z
lioal Foi   Total  local Fonei   Total  Cost Lorein
Part A of the Project                 -    123      123     -    100      100    17   100
Parts B & C of the Project
qtp.Mxnt & Spsres                   109    406     514    88    328     416    72    79
Civil W,*k/Erection                 112     12     125    91     10    101    17    10
Fangiiuering/Project NMIbzgmnt      20      22      42    17     17      34     6    53
TA & Itainig                         10    22       32     8     18      26      5    69
BsSe Cost (Jum 1987)              251    WU      713   2      373     377   100    65
Pdial Cotizncies                    31      44      75    25     36      61    11    59
Price scalation                     47      37      84    38     30      68    12    44
Installd Cost                     329    543     872   267    439      706   123    62
TUxe & uties                        129     -      12    104      -      104    18     0
Total Installed Cost              458    543   1,001   371    439      810   141    54
Increimtal Wording Capital          98      26     124    so     20      100    17    20
$btal Project Cost                556    569   1,125   451    459      910   158    51
Iterest Dring Gxstrction             5      44     49      4     36      40     7    90
Total Fninuucing Reqd. Parts B & C    561    613   1,174   455    495  950   165    52
GRAND OMAL                        561    613   1,297   455    595   1,050   182    57
_              m _     _      _      _            _



- 26 -
6.02      The base capital cost estimates for Parts B and C of the project
were prepared by the SIDERMEX operating companies and HYLSA, respectively,
with the assistance of reputed international engineering consultants
(para 5.11-5.12). Summaries of capital cost estimates by plant are shown
as Annexes 6-1 through 6-4, and details are included in the project files.
The base cost estimates have been checked against recent international
experience in steel plant rehabilitation and are based on extensive
research by the engineering consultants. Despite a high degree of
confidence in the base cost estimates, a physical contingency factor of
approximately 11X of the base cost is included as the nature of the
restructuring process in an operating plant imposes constraints on detail
engineering design until appropriate plant shut-down procedures are set up
and erection and installation schedules are drawn up. The estimates
include provision for price escalation (1.01 in 1988, 1989 and 1990 and
3.5% in 1991 and thereafter on the foreign cost components; the domestic
inflation rates in equivalent US$ terms are taken at 2.5% in 1988, 1989 and
1990 and 3.5% in 1991 and thereafter, based on a moderate inflation
scenario and an expected correction for the continuing exchange rate
undervaluation) in accordance with IBRD guidelines modified to take into
account the l'kely behavior of the Mexican peso exchange rate movements
during the project implementation period. The price escalation and
physical contingencies amount to 23X of the base cost. No contingencies
were applied to Part A of the project, as this would finance actual cost of
imports of raw materials, steel products and other consumables up to the
total amount of the loan allocated to that component (i.e., US$100 million
equivalent).
6.03      The cost for consultant services (including consultants' fees,
travel and subsistence expenses) is estimated on the basis of the long-term
nature of the major consultant service assignments. Consultant
requirements for the various project components are estimated as follows:
AHMSA - 900 man-months; CMC - 250 man-months; SIDERMEX Corporate -
445 man-months; and HYLSA - 250 man-months.
6.04      The incremental working capital needs are calculated from the
detailed assumption discussed in Chapter VII and in the Project File. The
working capital needs relate mainly to financing of the production build-up
(finished goods and work-in-process inventories, receivibles, pre-paid
expenses) and to the reduction of short-term liabilities from the base of
end December 1986. About 40X of the incremental needs are expected to be
financed from extension of existing commercial bank credit lines. Iuterest
during construction will not be capitalized by the companies.
B. Financing Plan
6.05      The proposed financing plan for the proposed project is shown in
Table 6.2 below.



- 27 -
Table 6.2
Summary Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
For-             X of Total       X
Local   eign   Total      Required    Foreign
Proposed Bank Loan
Part A of Project                0.0  100.0    100.0         9.5      100.0
Part B of Project                0.0  225.0    225.0        21.4      100.0
Part C of Project                0.0   75.0      75.0        7.2      100.0
Total Bank Loan              0.0  400.0    400.0         38.2      100.0
Incremental Short-term Debt
(Local Banks)
Part C of Project               32.0    0.0      32.0        3.0        0.0
Total Short-term Debt       64.0    0.0      64.0         6.K0       0.0
Internal Cash Generation
Part B of Project             266.0  148.0    414.0         39.5       35.8
Part C of Project              125.0   47.0    172.0        16.3       27.2
Total Internal Cash        391.0  195.0    586.0         VE-8       33.3
Total Financing            455.0  595.0  1,050.0        100.0       56.7
-_                m _
The financing requirements by company and the allocation of the Bank loan
are shown in Table 6.3 below.
Table 6.3
Financing Plan by Company
Total               SIDER- Total  Total  Grand
Part A AHMSA  C(   MEX  Part B Part C  Total
Total Requirements          100.0 479.7  184.4  7.5   671.6  278.4 1,050.0
Proposed Bank Loan          100.0 170.0  50.0  5.0   225.0   75.0   400.0
Local Banks (Short Term Debt)  -    32.0   -    -        32.0   32.0    64.0
Internal Cash Generation a/    -   277.7  134.4  2.5   414.6  171.4   586.0
% of Total Requirements       9.5  45.7  17.6  0.7    64.0   26.5   100.0
Z of Total Bank Loan         25.0  42.5  12.5  1.3    56.3   18.8   100.0
a/ Including approved 1987 Government budgetary transfers.
Approximately 561 of the proposed Bank loan would be allocated to the
SIDERNEX restructuring program; 25X would be allocated to the raw material
and steel products import component, and 19X to the HYLSA modernization
program. The financing plans for each of the main beneficiaries, AHMSA,
CHC and HYLSA, are based on a conservative mixture of debt and internal
cash generation, with continued access to existing short-ter. credit lines



- 28 -
for incremental working capital. The reliance on internal cash generation
has been verified by the projected financial position which is based on
very conservative assumptions about steel prices, demand growth, market
share, production build-up after project completion, and expected build-up
of cost and quality improvements (as detailed in Chapter VII). A
two-phased price decontrol program in line with the policy changes targeted
and described in para 4.02 is expected to take place, but the effective
impact, particularly on non-flat products, is projected in a gradual
manner. This is due to continued excess market supply in relation to a
slow projected growth in demand, and an expected reluctance by the
producers to effect substantial price increases on commonly used non-flat
products to avoid any loss of existing market shares. Under these
assumptions, the proposed financing plan involving about 62% contribution
from internal cash generation for the SIDERMEX group, including an
estimated US$50 million budgetary transfer in 1987, and nearly the same
contribution from HYLSA cash generation, is considered feasible. In the
case of HYLSA, the financing plan is very conservative since the financial
restructuring proposals include the premise of 100% internal cash financing
for the agreed modernization program.
6.06      In view of the above and with consideration to the conservative
nature of the financial forecasts, it has been agreed that:
(a) Part B of the project will be supported by the Government through
the SIDERMEX financing plan, including adequate annual budgetary
authorizations and when required, additional equity
contributions, in the event that internal cash generation does
not reach the conservatively estimated levels shown, or should
capital cost overruns exceed SIDERMEX ability to cover any
additional requirements through internal cash generation; and
(b) Part C of the project will be supported through the final
restructuring agreement between HYLSA and the creditor banks
reflecting the project financing plan and allowing for excess
cash generation over and above that required for successful
project completion to be used to retire existing debt to the
extent that doing so would not Jeopardize HYLSA ability to cover
eventual project cost overruns.
C. Onlending Arrangements
6.07      The Bank loan will be made to NAFIN as borrower under guarantee
of the United Mexican States, on standard World Bank terms. NAFIN will
onlend funds in the following manner:
(a) Part A: Funds will be onlent to the United Mexican States at the
Bank's standard variable rate plus a spread of 0.25% to NAFIN;
onlending terms will be the standard for Bank terms.
(b) Part B: Funds would be onlent to SIDERMEX, AHKSA and CMC at 110%
of the Bank's standard variable interest rate to NAFIN; onlending
terms will be 15 years including 3 years grace.



- 29 -
(c) Part C: Funds will be onlent to HYLSA on the same terms as for
Part B above.
The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the beneficiaries: Government,
SIDERMEX, AHMSA, CMC and HYLSA. The coverage of risks relating to foreign
currency pooling as well as reimbursement for commitment fees will be
recovered by NAFIN through the 10% premium applied to the lending rate from
the Bank.
6.08      The Project Agreements with each of SIDERMEX, CMC, AHMSA and
HYLSA have been agreed along with the proposed content of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between these firms and NAFIN. The signing of these
agreements are conditions of disbursement of Parts B and C of the loan.
D. Procurement
6.09      The main project beneficiaries are now completing the packaging
of their proposed investment programs so that the packages are technically
coherent and permit the main equipment suppliers to provide the necessary
performance guarantees. The major packages would include supervision of
erection/installation by the supplier in order to ensure satisfactory
performance, and may include in some cases, "limited turnkey" bids covering
engineering and erection/installation. By grouping packages into the major
plant areas (hot strip mill, cold rolling mills, steelmaking shop, etc.),
the steel plants would be able to minimize erection scheduling conflicts
and downtime of existing production runs.
6.10      International competitive bidding (ICB) procedures under Bank
guidelines will be used for procurement of all goods and equipment expected
to exceed US$0.5 million in value to be financed under Parts B and C of the
project except as noted below.  All ICB investment packages valued above
US$2.0 million will be subje^t to prior Bank review and approval.  For
contracts valued below US$0.5 million, procurement will be carried out
through International Shopping (IS) with price quotations from at least
three foreign suppliers from at least two foreign countries. The aggregate
value of these contracts should not exceed US$10.0 million. Direct
purchasing or quotation from two or more identified suppliers will be
permitted for spare parts or where proprietary technology is involved for
an aggregate amount not to exceed US$23.0 million. Finally, Limited
International Bidding (LIB) will be permitted when the equipment or goods
to be procured can only be supplied by a limited number of manufacturers.
The aggregate value of these contracts should not exceed US$20.0 million.
The proposed loan will not finance civil works and local erection and/or
installation contracts. The standard preference margins of the lower of
the tariff level or 15X for goods of domestic origin will be allowed under
ICB procurement. Consultant services will be procured using Bank
guidelines. Terms of reference have been agreed in advance for the
proposed project management consultancies and for the strategic studies and
shortlists have been approved by the Bank. Procurement of goods and
supplies under Part A of the project will follow existing Bank practice
for policy-based lending. Contracts expected to exceed US$5.0 million in
value will follow ICB procedures. Other contracts will follow the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser, which are satisfactory. The
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6.4 below.



- 30 -
Table 6.4
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
ICB   LIB/IS  LCB  Other  Total
Parts B and C a/
Equ.pment & Spares                          316     41      95    56    508
(Bank Financed)                          (210)   (30)          (23)  (263)
Civil Works/Erection                          -      -    124      -    124
Engineering/Project Management                -              -    35     35
(Dank Financed)                                                (15)   (15)
Technical Assistance & Training               -      -       -    39     39
(Bank Financed)                                                (22)   (22)
Total                                  316    7T    Y1T   130    706
(Bank Financed)                          (210)   (30)     -   (60)  (300)
_ _ _ _ _ _   _   _   _   _       ~~_ _     m      -             -_
a/ Not including interest during construction, incremental working capital
and taxes and duties.
ICB procurement under Bank guidelines for Parts B and C of the project
amount to a total of US$316 million or 45% of total expenditures and
Equipment and Spares contracts financed from the US$263 million Bank
portion amounts to US$210 million or 80Z of these contracts. Limited
International Bidding and International Shopping amount to 6% of total
expenditures, with local competitive bidding, direct purchase and
consultancy contracts procured under Bank guidelines making up the balance.
E. Allocation of the Loan and Disbursements
6.11      The allocation of the proposed Bank loan of US$400.0 million is
shown in Table 6.5 below:
Table 6.5
torn ianirn
Part  Pabt Part       X of      Z of Reuditures
A     B    C   Total Total      To Be PFluOSd
I. Raw ?tedals & Other
EUiLble Iaots         100.0   -    -   100.0  25.0 100% of fcorin expenditurs
IL  WPuipmt & Spare Pts    -   163.0 57.5 220.5  55.0 100% of forign cenditwes
and 100% of loca
aqp ditures (ex-faty)
IIL Cauultant Servics       -    21.0  3.5  24.5  6.0 100
iv. UbaUocatd              -    41.0 14.0  55.0  14.0 -
Total             100.0 225.0 75.0 400.0 100.0
6.12      NAFIN will be responsible for maintaining loan accounts and
preparation and submission of withdrawal applications under Part A.



- 31 -
Disbursement of Part A of the project would be against 100% of foreign
expenditures of eligible imports defined in Annex 5-1 and would be based on
a Statement of Expenditure from the Banco de Mexico detailing individual
transactions in each relevant period in respect of eligible imports,
together with a Certification from the Banco de Mexico of payment of the
amounts involved and of their eligibility under the loans Applications for
withdrawal will be consolidated and submitted in amounts of not less than
US$1 million.  Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after
November 1, 1987, up to a maximum of US$20 million has been agreed. As all
prior conditions for release of tranche 1 (US$50 million) have been
fulfilled (i.e. elimination of ORPs and adjustment of prices in real
terms), tranche 1 will be available for disbursement at loan effectiveness.
6.13      For disbursements under Parts B and C of the project, a special
account will be opened in a bank acceptable to the World Bank, with an
initial deposit of US$20 million, representing an estimated four months of
Bank-financed expenditures on Parts B and C of the project. As SIDERMEX,
AHMSA and CMC have already begun project implementation and as eligible
expenditures for urgently needed maintenance spare parts have been
authorized by the Bank after completion of the technical reviews,
retroactive financing of all expenditures incurred after February 1, 1987,
up to a maximum of US$30 million would be a&lowed. The special account
will be audited annually in accordance with Bank guidelines. Disbursements
will be fully documented, except for contracts valued at US$2.0 million or
less, for which Statements of Expenditure will be accepted. The
documentation for such expenditure will be retained by the SIDERMEX
beneficiaries and by HYLSA and will be made available for periodic
inspection by Bank staff.
6.14      The conditions for the disbursement of funds are as follows:
(a)  Part A of the Project
i)   for the second tranche (US$50 million):  complete
elimination of price controls on all remaining steel
products and elaboration of a Global Steel Sector Policy
Statement; an additional condition, reduction and
equalization of steel tariffs at 25% or less, has already
been fulfilled.
(b)  Part B of the Project
(i)  signature of the subsidiary loan agreements, acceptable to
the Bank, between NAPIN and each of SIDERMEX, AHMSA and CMC;
(ii)  completion of the CMC reorganization and restructuring and
establishment and staffing of the CMC Project Management
Team; and
(iii)  the development of an agreed Action Plan for AHMSA and CMC
based on specific monitorable levels of operational
improvement and their timing throughout the project.



- 32 -
(c)  Part C of the Project
(i) signature of the subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to
the Bank, between NAFIN and HYLSA;
(ii)  satisfactory formalization of the HYLSA Restructuring
Agreement with creditor banks incorporating the project
financing plan; and
(iii) the development of an agreed Action Plan for HYLSA based on
specific monitorable levels of operational improvement and
their timing throughout the project. -
It was agreed that the Government must continue vo make piogress in the
overall Steel Sector Reform Program (para 4.02) that is satisfactory to the
Bank. To this end it was specifically agreed and the draft legal documents
reflect as covenants maintenance of the price liberalization and trade
policy programs along with annual review and agreement by the Bank with the
SIDERMEX investment program.
6.15      The estimated schedule of disbursements of the proposed Bank loan
of US$400 million, taking into account a realistic schedule for procurement
of all the proposed equipment packages, and the disbursement profile of
recent IBRD projects in the Latin America and Caribbean region is shown in
Annex 6-4 and summarized in Table 6.6 below. The loan is expected to be
effective in the second half of FY88*
Table 6.6
Summary Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD    Disbursement                                   %
FY        in FY            %       Cumulative   Cumulative
1988         58*1         14.5          58.1          14.5
1989        108.8         27.2         166.9          41.7
1990        110.4         27.6         277.3          69.3
1991         86.8         21.8         364.1          91.1
1992         26.4          6.6         390.5          97.7
1993          9.5          2.3         400.0         100.0
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed at the end of FY93 (i.e., by
June 30, 1993.
F. Auditing
6.16      Annual financial audit reports by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank would be submitted by the project beneficiaries not later than
six months after the close of the financial year including annual audits of
Statement of Expenditures.



- 33 -
VII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Assumptions Used and Forecast of Production Costs
7.01      The proposed policy changes in the restructuring program are
designed to benefit the entire Mexican steel sector. The assumption
regarding steel prices is that domestic prices gradually reach CIF price
levels of equivalent imported products by 1990. This scenario is
consistent with the major policy reforms regarding elimination of internal
price controls and substantially more conservative because it does not
include any benefit from tariff protection. The pricing policy change
results in an average increase of selling prices (in constant terms) of
about 8% on flat products and about 25% on non-flat products. Since
non-flat products are substantially below CIF levels at the present time
(i.e., prior to completion of the agreed price decontrol actions), the
major benefl.ciaries of the policy change are the non-flat producers, who
are mainly in the private sector. The non-flat producers include the
private sector companies - HYLSA (Puebla and Apodaca), the mini-mills and
rerollers - as well as the SIDERMEX companies, SICARTSA I and, with reduced
participation in non-flat products, AHMSA. The financial benefits of the
pricing change on the flat product cperations of AHMSA and HYLSA are
marginal (para 7.17) when compared with the significant financial benefits
that result from the proposed investment program - higher output yields,
improvements in product mix, and lower production costs. The combined flat
and non-flat price changes allow an average increase of about 11.0% in
AHMSA's selling prices, as the product mix is predominantly in flat
products (84% of total product volume). Since HYLSA's non-flat products
will account for about 40% of total (flat and non-flat) product volume, the
impact of pricing policy changes will be slightly more favorable for the
company; the pricing policy change results in an average increase of about
15%.
7.02      The main beneficiaries of the investment portion of the
restructuring are the flat producers - AHMSA and HYLSA. The major goal of
the investment program is to strengthen and improve AHMSA's and HYLSA's
competitive position in flat products, and allow them to produce
internationally competitive flat products with substantially lower
production costs. The investments will also result in debottlenecking of
the production process which will bring about higher sales volume with no
expansion of production capacity. Lastly, the capital program will allow a
shift in product mix to higher-quality and hence higher-value products.
The above improvements in operating performance (together with the policy
changes) will favorably impact the key variables that determine AHMSA's and
HYLSA's profitability - output prices, sales volume and production costs.
7.03      An extensive analysis of the expected financial benefits of the
proposed investment programs, and of the expected changes in financial
position and performance of the two major steel operating companies has
been carried out along with a separate analysis of the financial
performance of CMC. The projections are carried out in current US$
equivalent terms through 1992, when the project is completed and fully
operational, and in constant terms thereafter.



- 34 -
7.04      Table 7.1 shows the unit production costs before and after the
implementation of the investment program. Reductions in variable cost as a
result of the program are due to improvements in yield, reductions in
rejects, lowering of energy costs, improvements in maintenance and overall
labor reductions. A shift in product mix along with better capacity
utilization after the debottlenecking efforts also contributes to a
lowering of fixed costs.
Table 7.1
AHMSA - Impact of Total Investment on Cost Structure a/
(in constant 1987 US$/tonne)
Before           After
Production Costs                                   Investment      Investment
(1987)          (1993)
Total Materials                                       54.86            53.92
Total Energy                                          51.19           49.07
Other Variable                                        67.91            62.83
Variable Labor                                        14.90            14.10
Total Variable                                    188.86           179.92
Total Fixed                                           35.87            28.40
Total Costs Before Depreciation
& Financial Charges                            224.73           208.32
_      _      _     __._                              m               -_..
a/  Based on a weighted average of plate, hot coil and sheet, cold rolled
and tin sheet products.
In addition to the reduction in the level of production costs, two factors
account for the favorable impact on AHNSA's sales profitebility brought
about by the investment program. The first is the shift So a higher value
added product mix and the second is the improvement in product quality that
allows for the recoupment of certain profits that had previously been lost
in the sale of lower-priced second grade material. The cumulative impact
of the implementation of the investment program and pricing policy changes
can be measured by analyzing the Increase in gross profit (sales less cost
of sales except depreciation charges) between the years 1987 and 1993. As
shown in Table 7.2 the AHMSA investment program accounts for nearly 69X of
the increase in gross profit between 1987 and 1993.



- 35 -
Table 7.2
AHMSA: Analysis of Increase in Gross Profit
(in constant 1987 US$ millions)
1987          1993        Increase
Tonnage Sold ('000 mt)                   2,138          2,483            345
Sales                                    696.4          951.7         255.3
Cost of Sales                            463.4          480.8           17.4
Gross Profit                           231.2          470.9         237.9
Increase in Gross Profit due to:
1.  Increase in volume of products sold                           35.4
2.  Reduction in costs                                            57.4
3.  Change in product mix                                         50.5
4.  Improvement in quality                                        20.1
Total attributable to investment program                   163.4
5.  Increase in average selling price                             74.5
Total increase                                             237.9
7.05      HYLSA's financial performance in recent years has been adversely
affected by the company's heavy debt burden (para 2.10) which precluded any
major capital investment program. Since the flat products division which
accounts for 62% of HYLSA's installed capacity and 100% of flat product
production is 45 years old and has no continuous casting, there has been an
erosion of market share and a contraction of profit margins in recent years
due to inadequate quality and rising costs. A second problem for HYLSA is
that its major source of iron ore, the El Encino mine, is facing depletion
of its reserves. The financial restructuring plan between HYLSA and its
creditor banks and financial institutions (para 2.10) enables the company
to proceed with the major strategic investment program described in
para 5.09. The major financial benefits of the two stage investment
program are as follows:
(a)  a change in product mix through the installation of a new
pickling line. The output price for pickled coil is about 6.0%
higher than the unpickled hot coil;
(b)  reduced operating costs resulting from savings in electricity,
raw materials and acid usage;
(c)  a reduction of about 4.0X in the level of second quality product;
(d)  a 20% increase in volume and a 9.0% improvement in yields arising
from rehabilitation of the hot strip mill; and
(e)  lower production costs due to the installation of the continuous
caster and the consequent improvement in slab yields.
HYLSA is also developing a new iron mine (Cerro Nahauti) that will have a
limited life of 12 years and will supplement production from the older El



- 36 -
Encino mine. This mining investment is viewed as an intermediate step that
will allow HYLSA time to develop a more comprehensive plan for the
acquisition of future raw materials. The financial impact of this
investment is taken into account in the cash flow analyses. The total
impact of HYLSA's investment programs on production costs is set forth in
Table 7.3. The higher materials cost result from higher levels of scrap
steel that have to be imported.
Table 7.3
HYLSA - Impact of Total Investment on Cost Structure a/
Flat Products Division
(in constant 1987 US$/tonne)
Before               After
Production Costs                               Investment          Investment
(1987)              (1995)
Total Materials                                   63.85                65.32
Total Energy                                      52.53                51.11
Other Variable                                    47.09               45.94
Total Variable                              163.47               162.37
Total Fixed Costs                                 69.07                51.14
Total Costs Before Depreciation
& Financial Charges                      232.54               213.51
a! Based on a composite of pickled hot coil, unpickled hot coil, cold roll
and tin sheet products.
B. Financial Projections
AHMSA
7.06      The income statement set forth in the Project File and summarized
in Table 7.4 below presents AMHSA's operating results for the projection
period. Sales are estimated to increase from US$696.4 million in 1987 to
US$951.7 million in 1993, equivalent to an average annual growth rate of
5.3%. This increase reflects the combination of product mix changes,
increases in selling volumes due to rise in demand and the projected
average increase in selling prices of around 11% in constant 1987 terms.
RAflecting the positive financial effects of the investment program,
profitability is expected to grow at a more rapid rate than the change in
sales during the 1987 to 1990 period. The decline in profit margins after
1990 reflects the conservative pricing assumptions underpinning the
projections (sales do not reflect any adjustment for inflation while costs
are escalated at the domestic inflation rate) rather than any deterioration
in profitability. The cumulative effects of the improving price-cost
structure are reflected in the net income ratio that shows the relationship
between after-tax profits and sales. This key index of profitability
steadily improves during the projection period, from 2.5% in 1987 to 8.5%
in 1993.



- 37 -
Table 7.4
AHHSA - Financial Projections
(in current USM million)
18   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Sales (Constant 1987 US$)       696.4 687.4 793.8 881.3 930.0 940.7 951.7
Profit after Tax                 17.4  25.2  56.9  65.8  70.0  56.4  80.5
Internal Cash (Before Interest)  166.0  162.7  192.1 218.4 220.5 206.5 228.8
Debt Service                    115.1  95.1  81.4  59.2  46.0  48.8  46.9
EBIT/Sales (X)                   15.8  15.8  19.9  18.6  17.7  14.5  14.8
PRT/Sales (%)                     2.5   3.7   7.1   7.4   7.5   6.0   8.5
Current Ratio                     2.3   2.1   1.8   2.2   2.7   3.0   3.2
Debt/Equity Ratio               17:83  17:83 18:82  18:82 18:82  17:83  16:84
Debt Service Coverage Ratio       1.4   1.7   2.4   3.7   4.8   4.2   4.9
7.07      AHMSA's financial projection during the first four years of the
projection period is forecasting internally generated funds totalling
U$499.1 m.lion. For the four years, capital expenditures aggregate
US$434.5 million and working capital requirements US$190.9 million. In
addition, existing debt repayments for 1987 to 1990 come to
US$110.7 million. The funding requirement or the difference between
internally generated funds and uses totals US$237.0 million for the
four-year period. The proposed Bank project loan of US$170.0 million will
cover approximately 70% of this funding need. The remaining 30% is
expected to be met through a reduction in cash balance in 1987 and
short-term borrowing from domestic commercial banks. Because of AHMSA's
current strong financial position (due to the 1986 financial restructuring)
and post-1989 cash generation capability, the company should be able to
support these additions to short-term debt without any adverse financial
effects. This assumption is supported by an examination of the projected
current and debt service ratios (see Table 7.4). In 1990 AHMSA will begin
to generate surplus funds and be able to reduce short-term debt incurred
during the previous three years. In 1992, the cash surplus is sufficient
to completely repay short-term borrowings and to begin dividend payments.
CMC
7.08      In order to assure an adequate supply of raw materials for
SIDERMEX's future operations, an investment program has been formulated
that is designed to bring production from existing iron mines in the north
up to their capacity, and to increase, modernize and decrease costs in the
coal mines.
7.09      The projection of CHC financial performance is included in the
Project File. As CMC's output will be almost entirely transferred to the
two SIDERMEX steel plants, the financial analysis is confined to an
examination of the operating cash flow in order to evaluate the impact of
the produced investment program on CMC's financing needs. CHC is currently
negotiating the ore and coa'l supply contract terms with AHMSA and SICARTSA
with a view to rendering the transfer price more fully reflective of the
ongoing investment and capital maintenance needs of the mines and allowing



- 38 -
for efficiency incentives to ensure that the nearly sole source/sole client
relationship that prevails does not imply cost penalties for either party.
The financial restructuring that is now being undertaken will ensure that
CMC can start on its new supplier/client relationship with a satisfactory
capitalization including needed working capital. The presentation of a
financial restructuring plan for CMC, acceptable to the Bank, is a
condition of disbursement of the CMC component (para 6.14). Under the
proposed contractual arrangements, CMC sales revenue will be determe'-ed on
the basis of standard cost plus a margin so that any gain due to cost
improvements will be reflected in the income statements of the SIDERMEX
steel companies. CMC financial forecasts, therefore, consist of cash flow
projections which show the capabilities of the mines for internal cash
generation derived from the given gross profit margin and depreciation
provisions, and the derived external financing requirements. Internal cash
generation results from a proposed margin of 3X to be paid by the SIDERMEX
steel companies on total production costs (including depreciation and
financial charges) of the CHC products. The project investments total
US$181.0 million (including incremental working capital) over four years
1987 to 1990. Over the same period, an additional US$51.0 million is
scheduled for replacement investments. Out of the total four year capital
spending program of US$232.0 million, US$50.0 million would be financed
from the proposed Bank loan and US$25.4 million out of budgeted Government
funds in 1987 and 1988. The remainder would be financed through internal
cash generation and addition to short-term debt (para 6.05).
HYLSA
7.10      Table 7.5 below summarizes the projected operating results for
HYLSA from 1987 to 1993. The company's sales are expected to grow 10.7%
p.a. This growth occurs through a combination of increases in selling
volumes and substantial change in product mix attributable to the
investment program at the flat products division, and the increa.e in
average selling prices arising from the impact of pricing policy changes
(para 7.01). The favorable impact of the investment program is seen by the
increase in earnings before taxes and interest margin (EBIT) which expands
sharply in 1989 and in 1992 because of lower operating costs. The sharp
drop in profit after taxes in 1993 reflects the end of carried-forward
losses resulting in start of income tax payments in that year. The
combined beneficial impact from the modernization program (higher sales
revenue and lower production costs) and the financial restructuring plan
(lower financial charges) as well as a lower level of SGA expense in
relation to sales are reflected in the final profit ratio, net income to
sales, which increases between 1987 and 1993 from 3.2% to 10.71.



- 39 -
Table 7.5
HYLSA - Financial Projection
(in current US$ million)
1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Sales (in Constant 1987 US$)    408.0  449.2 547.0 578.9 572.7 696.4 751.6
Profit after Tax                 13.0   23.5  64.1  65.3  55.8  123.2  80.4
Internal Cash (Before Investment) 108.6  106.7 161.6 178.6  164.2 234.8 184.2
Debt Service                     96.4a/ 56.1  63.7  66.0  92.0 198.2 151.8
EBIT/ales (X)                    19.7   16.8  22.1  21.0  19.7  25.9  26.9
PAT/Sales (X)                     3.2    5.2  11.7  11.3   9.7  17.7  10.7
Current Ratio                     4.5    2.7   3.4   1.9   2.0   2.2   2.4
Debt/Equity Ratio               69:31  65:35 59:41  55:45 52:48 42:58 36:64
Debt Service Coverage Ratio       1.1    1.9   2.5   2.7   1.8   1.2   1.2
a/ Net of 112.7 million exchanged for equity.
7.11      Based on the financial projections, HYLSA has forecast over the
project period a total funds requirement of US$690.5 million. The bulk of
this is for capital expenditures which aggregate US$454.6 million.
Approximately US$278 million of investment spending is for the proposed
project investments in flat products modernization and US$30.0 million for
the new Cerro Nahauti mine. There are also additional working capital
requirements of US$46.6 million and debt repayments of US$189.3 million for
the period. Internally generated funds aggregate US$406.4 million for the
period equivalent to around 60% of total uses.  Cert-ir -on-cash items,
deferred interest of US$25.0 million (over five years) &. a US$113 million
debt-equity swap associated with the restructuring plan, reduce the cash
requirement to approximately US$132 million. The proposed Bank project
loan of US$75 million will cover approximately 60S of this funding need.
The remaining 401 is expected to be met through reduction in cash balances
and modest short-term borrowings.
7.12      An examination of HYLSA's projected capital structure as well as
key financial ratios indicates that the company should be able to handle
its future debt service. This includes not only its existing debt that has
recently been rescheduled but also the Bank project loan and the additional
short-term debt used to fund operating deficits. The current ratio never
falls below 1.9 during the projection period (1987-93), an indication that
there Is sufficient current asset coverage to warrant the use of short-term
debt to fund operating cash deficits. The debt-equity ratio (see
Table 7.5) which is 69:31 in 1987 (year end) improves steadily throughout
the period; it reaches 55:45 in 1990 and by 1993 is projected to be 36:64.
Moreover, the debt service ratios set forth in Table 7.5 show that HYLSA
should generate adequate financial resources to meet its future debt
service requirements. As shown in Table 7.5, beginning in 1988, MYLSA's
debt service ratio is over 1.21 for each year. In the years 1992 and 1993
(when the ratio declines) HYLSA begins to repay both its Tranche A debt
(under terms of its restructuring agreements) and the Bank project loan.



- 40 -
However, since the repayment schedule used in the projection reflects
management's strategy to reduce HYLSA's indebtedness as rapidly as
possible, considerable financial flexibility exists because the mandatory
debt amortizations are significantly lower.
C. Financial Covenants
AHMSA
7.13      To ensure the maintenance of a sound financial position for
AHMSA, the subsidiary loan agreements between NAFIN and AHMSA will provide
for the following: (i) the company will maintain a current ratio of not
less than 1.2 and a debt/equity ratio not greater than 67:33; and (ii) that
the company will not incur additional debt if to do so would cause the
company debt/equity ratio to exceed 67:33 or its projected debt service
coverage to fall below 1.5 times.
CHC
7.14      Since CMC is dependent on the SIDERMEX steel companies for its
sales, the project description includes the establishment of a standard
cost system on which pricing will be based. The project agreement with CMC
provides for an annual rev:.ew by the Bank of the sales agreements between
CMC and the SIDERMEX steel companies. The purpose of this review would be
to adjust the margin on total costs (paid by the steel companies) so as to
insure that CMC has sufficient funds to meet its financial requirements,
including capital expenditures and debt service, which has been included as
specific covenants in the subsidiary loan agreements.
HYLSA
7.15      The subsidiary loan agreements between NAFIN and HYLSA will
prcvide for financial covenants including maintenance of working capital
and debt-equity levels, limitations on dividends and restrictions on the
use of surplus funds. These financial covenants will be related to and
consistent with the financial covenants contained in the debt restructuring
agreement between HYLSA and its creditors (para 2.10). Satisfactory
formalization of the Agreed Term Sheet and Financial Restructuring Plan for
HYLSA to incorporate the agreed financing plan for Part C of t   project
and due execution of the Agreements with HYLSA's creditors are conditions
prerequisite to the disbursement of Bank funds for Part C of the project
(para 6.14).
D. Financial Rate of Return
AHMSA and HYLSA
7.16      The incremental financial rates of return on a discounted cash
flow basis for the AHMSA and HYLSA investment programs are 32.7% in the
case of AHMSA and 17.5% for HYLSA. The substantial difference in the
financial rates of return reflects primarily the present difference in
operating performance of the two companies. In general, HYLSA has been
achieving better capacity utilization, higher yields, better labor
productivity and lower production costs. As a result, the margin for



- 41 -
improvement is considerably smaller for HYLSA than it is for AH4SA.
However, without the proposed. investment program, HYLSA's performance would
show a significant deterioration over the next five years as its ability to
meet the quality demands of the flat products market will be significantly
worsened. At the same time, its relative competitiveness to AHMSA would
also suffer greatly. In order to test the key assumptions a sensitivity
analysis was performed with respect to output prices, exchange rates and
sales volume, one at a time (Table 7.6).
(a)  Sensitivity to Price Changes.  The base case financial rates of
return assume that domestic steel prices reach CIF levels by
1990, but never rise above CIF levels. The CIF level and price
equivalents are based on a weighted average of FOB prices in
early 1987 for steel exports from Japan, EEC, Brazil and South
Korea. Two assumptions were tested with respect to pricing. In
the first case domestic prices rise due to improved quality and
reach a level of CIF plue 5.0% by 1990 and continue at this level
through the projection period. In the second case prices are
held at the present level in order to isolate the returns
attributable to the investment program.
(b) Sensitivity to Exchange Rate. The base case exchange rate
scenario is for a continuation of the present undervaluation or
discount from purchasing power parity of the peso in relation to
the US dollar. In early 1987 this was approximately 37% and the
base case assumes that future peso-dollar exchange rate movements
will follow the Mexican inflation rate, thereby preserving the
peso undervaluation. Sensitivity was tested on a reduction in
undervaluation of the peso of 10% and 20% against the US dollar.
The recent sharp devaluation of the peso at end-1987 would
improve the financial and economic returns on the project, and
enhance the financial results, since product costs are lower
compared to equivalent landed prices, thereby providing higher
operating margins. This, in turn, would reduce the downside risk
in event of a future revaluation.
(c) Sensitivity of Sales Volume. Incremental sales volumes (in terms
of tonnage) were varied using a 20% decrease for AHMSA and a 10%
decr-aase for HYLSA.
Table 7.6
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
(X)
AHMSA      HYLSA
Base Case                                                     32.7        17.5
A.  Prices exceed Base Case levels by 5%                       35,9       19.3
Prices stay at current levels                             27.7        14.8
B.  Revaluation of Peso by 10%                                29.1        15.6
Revaluation of Peso by 20%                                24.7        13.2
C.  Decrease in incremental production volume of 10%           -          15.6
Decrease in incremental production volume of 20%          25.9         -



- 42 -
CMC
7.17      The calculation of the financial rates of return for CMC
investments have not taken into account incremental benefits but only cost
differentials between two cases - one with the investments being made and
one without the investments. The rate of return for the coal mines is
46.0%, for the iron ore mines 52.0%, and for the total project 50%. The
net present values at 15% discount rate is US$87.3 million for the coal
mines, US$130.0 million for the iron ore mines and US$231.8 million for the
total project.
VIII. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS
A. Assumptions
8.01      CI  landed prices of steel products based on a weighted average
of FOB prices of the main exporters to Mexico, have been used in the
economic cost benefit and Domestic Resource Cost calculations.
8.02      Full cost domestic prices have been used for domestic iron ore
and coal delivered to AHMSA and HYLSA. Landed CIF prices plus internal
transport costs of imported steel scrap have been used to value steel
scrap. Subsidy-free prices have been used for power and oil consumed in
the steel process. Conversion factors have been used for the rest of the
inputs inclduing a shadow price factor of 0.77 for labor. Capital rental
costs have been estimated for AHMSA's integrated plant at US$1,000/tonne of
installed capacity, and for HYLSA direct reduction based plant at
US$875/tonne of installed capacity for flat products; in addition, an
economic life of 20 years and an opportunity cost of capital of 12% have
been assumed.
8.03      The new policy framework of liberalized trade, moderate tariffs
and liberalized internal prices, implies that Mexico will be a price-taker
in the world market for steel products and that internal production will be
supply determined. In the above context, movements in product prices are
independent of movements in domestic demand and supply. Therefore, a
separate sensitivity analysis was performed for each of this variables.
B. Economic Rate of Return Analysis
8.04      Table 8.1 below shows the range of more probable ERR outcomes for
the investment project in AHMSA. ERR sensitivity was performed with
respect to output prices, increments in production capacity, capital
project costs and Mexican peso revaluation, one at a time. The modal value
for the ERR is 32.3% and the range of variation goes from 35.6% for a 5%
increase in output prices, to 19.9% for 20% reductions in incremental
capacity or 20% increases in capital project costs both in a context of a
10% reduction in output prices. Switching values for the above variables
are also shown. ERR results are most sensitive to reductions in economic
product prices, which are exogenous variables determined in the world
markets. They are sensitive to peso revaluation which is a policy
variable, and they are also sensitive to incremental capacity reductions,
which is variable that can be controlled within the project framework.



- 43 -
Table 8.1
AHMSA: Sensitivity Analysis of Total Investment
Economic Internal Rate of Return (ERR)
Economic Product Prices
-10   Base Case     +5X
Base Case                                25.3       32.3      35.6
Incremental Capacity:  -20%              19.9       25.8      28.7
Capital Project Costs:  +20X             19.9       26.1      29.1
Mexican Peso Revaluation:  +10%          21.4       28.2      31.5
Switching Values
Economic Product Prices  -27X      Capital Project Costs      +90%
Incremental Capacity      -55%     Mexican Peso Revaluation  +50%
Source: Project File.
8.05      Table 8.2 shows equivalent ERR results for HYLSA.  Here the modal
ERR value is 14.81 and the range of variation of results goes from 16.7%
for a 5% increase in economic output prices, to 9.0% for a 10% rise in
capital project costs coupled with a 101 reduction in output prices.
Switching values for the above variables are shown in the lower part of
Table 8.2. In the HYLSA case ERR results are again most sensitive to
reductions in economic product prices. They are then sensitive to capital
project cost variations and to fall in incremental capacity utilization.
Table 8.2
HYLSA: Sensitivity Analysis of Total Investment
Economic Internal Rate of Return (ERR)
Economic Product Prices
-101   Base Case     +5%
Base Case                                10.7       14.8      16.7
Incremental Capacity:  -10%               9.2       13.0      14.8
Capital Project Costs:  +10%              9.0       13.0      14.8
Mexican Peso Revaluation:  +10%           9.8       13.7      15.3
Switching Values
Economic Product Prices   -7%      Capital Project Costs      +15%
Incremental Capacity     -15%      Mexican Peso Revaluation  +30%
Source: Project File.
8.06      AHMSA and HYLSA results are most sensitive to output price
variations because in a supply determined production market revenues always
move in the same direction of price changes. HYLSA results are more
sensitive to reductions in incremental capacity than AHMSA's because the



- 44 -
HYLSA project benefits come mainly from reduction in fixed cost by
increased use of production capacity after debottlenecking investments,
whereas AHMSA's benefits come as much from reductions in average variable
costs as they come from generating economies of scale. HYLSA results are
more sensitive to increments in capital project costs than AHMSA's because
the incremental capital cost directly affect the main source of benefits of
HYLSA, i.e., the reduction in average fixed costs. The higher AHMSA's
expected profitability is associated with its larger scope for variable as
well as fixed cost reductions than in the HYLSA case; and with the change
in the product mix from non-flat relatively low priced and inefficiently
produced products, to flat and non-flat which both have higher prices and
are more efficiently produced. Although the HYLSA ERR is highly sensitive
to downside price swings, the likelihood of such change is now
substantially diminished in the current steel market price scenarios. In
the latter part of 1987 there have been substantial international price
increases on the order of 10% to 15% particularly in the flat product
categories. This is due to reduced supply in most developed countries and
also due to the substantial devaluation of the US dollar vis-a-vis the main
trading currencies, i.e., Japanese yen and German mark.
8.07      In the AHMSA case the marginal ERR is larger than the average ERR
for the plant as a whole and therefore contributes to increase its average
profitability. AHMSA's average ERR rises from 11% without the project to
16% with the project.
C. Domestic Resource Costs and Competitive Position
8.08      The main objective of the economic analysis of the project is to
ascertain if AHMSA and HYLSA can be internationally competitive after the
optimization and maintenance investments are completed. This is important
both for efficient allocation of investment and to find out if the steel
industry can have a positive supply response in the context of the trade
liberalization program that the Mexican Government is now implementing. It
is also worth noting from the beginning that the significant recent real
devaluation of the Mexican peso has improved the competitive position of
the Mexican steel industry. We assume in what follows that the rea
exchange rate will stay at Its present level.
8.09      Table 8.3 shows that the project substantially improves AHMSA's
flat products competitive position particularly in hot coil and sheet and
cold rolled products. In both cases the cost reductions come from
improvement in production costs and reductions in fixed costs due to the
project investments. AHMSA's non-flat products competitive position is
weaker. Heavy sections become marginally competitive with the project as a
result of adding rail product to that mill. The results clearly support
the AHMSA strategy of concentration in flat products, heavy structurals and
rail, abandoning progressively all other non-flat lines.



- 45 -
Table 8.3
AHMSA: Domestic Resource Cost and Competitive Position
Without and With the Project
DRC       Variable Cost/Tonne Total Cost/Tonne
Without  With   Without   With   Without   With  CIF Price
Plate             0.98   0.59    164.5   157.7    289.3   257.8         343
Hot Coil & Sheet   1.03   0.64    149.8   146.3    275.5   247.9        318
Cold Rolled       1.55   0.85    198.4   186.2    390.0   341.2         384
Tin Sheet         0.79   0.47    314.4   303.2    535.7   480.6         722
Heavy Sections    1.52   1.01    179.1   176.8    349.9   337.2         350
Bar & Sections    2*70   1.52    188.1   185.9    336.3   324.5         289
Wire              6.74   2.37    258.9   257.1    411,7   400.3         323
Source: Project File.
8.10     'Table 8.4 shows that the project substantially improves the
competitive position of HYLSA. Cold rolled coil, the only non-competitive
product without the project, will become competitive with the project. The
major gain in competitiveness is in the hot roll pickling line that is
precisely where the most important debottlenecking occurs. Table 8.4 also
shows that HYLSA's improved competitive position comes mainly from
economies of scale generated by a more efficient and intensive use of
existing facilities.
Table 8.4
HYLSA: Domestic Resource Costs and Competitive Position
Without and With the Project
DRC       Variable Cost/Tonne Total Cost/Tonne
Without  With   Without   With   Without   With  CIF Price
Unpickled Hot Coil  0.8    0.75    172.8   176.3    289.4   282.8         318
Pickled Hot Coil    0.83   0.71    182.8   183.8    316.5   297.4         343
Cold Rolled Coil    1.05   0.94    207.8   206.8    392.4   373.5         384
Tin                 0.48   0.42    265.8   264.0    484.7   455.7         722
Source:  Project File.
8.11      The comparison of results of Tables 8.1-8.4 indicate that AHMSA's
economic position is relatively more improved than HYLSA's as a result of
the project. This is due to the fact that there is more room for
improvement in AHMSA and because AHKSA is adjusting its product mix to
capture new profitable market niches, such as rail.
D. Benefits and Risks
8.12      The major benefit of the project will be to permit a deepening of
trade liberalization in the steel industry and in the downstream industries
and, thereby enable these industries to play their strategic role in the



- 46 -
development of an export oriented competitive economy. World class carbon
steel sold at competitive international prices is a key factor for a
broadly based export oriented development of the capital goods and
engineering industries. The decontrol of domestic steel prices, the
announ.ed trade liberalization measures and the overall restructuring of
the steel subsector, including, in particular, the closure of uneconomic
plants, will lead to efficient import competition forcing domestic steel
producers to improve quality and product mix in order to serve better
downstream steel consuming industries. The policy changes would eliminate
budgetary transfers to the public steel sector, and indirect subsidies to
the industry as a whole, as well as provide the necessary internal funding
for the proposed restructuring and rehabilitation of the physical plant of
the entire subsector. The physical rehabilitation of the AHMSA, and HYLSA
plants will substantially improve the competitiveness of flat products both
in terms of better quality and lower overall cost. Rationalization of
steelmaking capacity will also result in improved plant utilization.
Downstream users of flat products will be able to obtain a wider range of
acceptable quality flat products at lower cost. The rehabilitation of the
SIDERMEX mines will allow lower cost exploitation of available resources
and maintain Mexico's comparative advantages in steel production. The
technical assistance efforts will enable the steel producers and government
to map out viable long-term strategies and the means to implement them.
8.13      The major risk is any delay in decontrolling steel prices which
could seriously aggravate the financial position of the major steel
producers and induce them to ask for additional protection. Price
increases accorded in December 1987 and January 1988 and the agreement on
monthly adjustments based on changes in the Consumer Price Index in order
to maintain steel prices in real terms until complete elimination of price
controls not later than December 31, 1988, substantially eliminate this
potential risk. A secondlrisk could be a reversal in the trade
liberalization program. This would retard competition from abroad, would
permit domestic oligopolistic pricing behavior and would not be an
appropriate framework to improve product quality. The Government's ongoing
commitments under the Trade Policy Reform substantially reduce this risk
under the project. A third risk is exchange rate swings which could affect
project cost and viability. Finally, if the steel companies fail to
achieve their target performance, there could also be a risk of renewed
imposition of price controls and pressure from the producers for increased
tariff protection, resulting in deterioration of qiility steel supply to
the market. Government commitment to the liberaliation program,
substantial physical restructuring and rehabilitation of the major
producers along with clearer definition of future investment strategy as
well as agreements related to action plans for operating performance of the
target companies combine to mitigate the potential adverse impact of the
above risks. The sensitivity analysis demonstrates that such swings would
have to be substantial before they would adversely affect the viability of
the project enterprises.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      The following major agreements were reached with NAFIN, the
Government, SIDERMEX, AHNSA, CMC and HYLSA.



- 47 -
1. NAFIN will:
(a) onlend the proceeds of the loan in the following manner on terms
and conditions agreeable to the Bank (para 6.07):
(i)  to Government - US$100 million for Part A of the project;
(ii)  to AHMSA (US$170 million), CMC (US$50 million) and to
SIDERMEX (US$5 million), for Part B of the project;
(iii)  to HYLSA (US$75 million) for Part C of the project;
(b)  make available credits to other private sector producers as well
as administer, channel and coordinate the provision of technical
assistance services (para 5.17).
2. The Government will:
(a) support the SIDERMEX financing plan through adequate annual
budgetary authorizations, including provision of any additional
funds that may be needed to ensure satisfactory project
completion (para 6.06);
(b)  continue with the actions, policies and objectives summarized in
the Steel Sector Policy Letter provided to the Bank (para 4.02);
(c) maintain in effect the Steel Trade Policy Program measures,
including elimination of ORPs for all steel products, and
reduction and rationalization of tariffs on all steel product
imports at less than 25% (para 4.02);
(d) complete and maintain in effect the Steel Price Liberalization
Policy including monthly adjustments of domestic steel prices in
real terms leading to removal of all price controls on steel
products by December 31, 1988 (para 4.02); and
(e) complete the elaboration of a global Steel Sector Policy
Statement by July 31, 1988 (para 4.02).
3. SIDERMEX will:
(a) see to the signature of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between NAFIN,
SIDERMEX, AHMSA, and CMC for Part B (paras 6.08, 7.15 and 7.16)
incorporating, in particular, the agreed financial covenants with
respect to working capital, debt service and capital structure;
(b) see to the effective reorganization of CMC and approval of its
financial restructuring plan (para 5.14), and the staffing of its
Project Management unit including employment of consultants for
project management assistance (para 5.11);
(c) see that AHMSA retains consultants for project management on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 5.12);
(d) see to the development of an agreed Action Plan for AHMSA and CMC
based on specific monitorable levels of operational improvement



- 48 -
and their timing throughout the duration of the project
(para 5.21);
(e)  not later than March 31, 1988, discuss with the Bank the
conclusions and recommendations of its long-term strategy study
and thereafter implement the agreed elements in accordance with
investment criteria, financing plans and implementation schedules
acceptable to the Bank; and review progress on implementation at
least once a year with the Bank (para 4.11); and
(f)  see that an asset revaluation exercise is carried out within six
months after the signing of the loan documents at all SIDERMEX
operating entities on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.12).
4.   HYLSA will:
(a)  complete a comprehensive financial restructuring agreement
between HYLSA and its creditors including the agreed project
financing plan (para 6.06);
(b) sign the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NAFIN and HYLSA for
Part C (paras 6.08 and 7.17) incorporating, in particular, the
agreed financial covenants with respect to working capital, debt
service and capital structure as reflected in the HYLSA financial
restructuring plan;
(c) name a Project Manager and retain consultants for project
management on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para 5.12); and
(d)  develop and implement an agreed Action Plan for HYLSA based on
specific monitorable levels of operational improvement and their
timing throughout the duration of the project (para 5.21).
9.02      The Bank will disburse funds for Part A of the project in two
tranches based on the following bases:
(a)  for the first tranche, at loan effectiveness (para 6.12); and
(b)  for the second tranche, the complete elimination of price
controls on all remaining steel products and presentation of a
Global Steel Sector Policy Statement, an additional condition,
the reduction and equalization of steel tariffs at a maximum of
25% has already been fulfilled (para 6.14).
9.03     Subject to the foregoing agreements, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$400 million for 15 years including 3 years grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Country Department II - Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
February 1988



ANNEX 2-1
- 49 -                          Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Steel Sector in Mexico
A. Introduction
1.        The Mexican steel industry is of substantial size with a
theoretical installed capacity at the beginning of 1986 of over 10.5 mtpa
of crude steel. The SIDERMEX facility Fundidora de Monterrey SA was closed
in May 1986 lowering the current capacity to just over 9.0 mtpa. Some of
the remaining capacity, particularly at AHMSA, is in technically obsolete
and under-maintained facilities which are addressed in the restructuring
project.
2.        Historically, modern steel production in Mexico began in the
1940s and grew slowly through the 1950s. Aided by import substitution and
protectionist policies the annual growth of production averaged 10.2% in
the 1960s and 7.5% in the 1970s, reaching a production peak in 1981.
Between 1981 and 1983 there was an 8.6% decline due to the economic crisis
in the country, then a partial recovery in the last two years. The
production of finished steel products has remained below the 1981 level
until today. In 1985, Mexico occupied 20th place in the world and second
place in Latin America for production of steel. In 1984, the steel
industry employed 88,000 people (64,000 of them workers), and it produced
1.3% of the GDP and 4.2% of the manufactured export.
3.        In 1986, the industry produced 7.1 million tonnes of crude steel
and 5.7 million tonnes of finished steel products. In quantitative terms
the country is self-sufficient with the production and consumption of steel
products roughly in balance during the last three years. The industry,
however, cannot meet all the quality requirements of the downstream users.
For example, in 1985, Mexico exported 0*4 million tonnes of mainly
commercial products, while importing 0.5 million tonnes of higher quality
products.
B. Steel Producers and Capacities
4.        Steel mills fall into two main groups, integrated and
non-integrated producers. The traditional integrated producers produce
liquid iron from coal and iron ore through coke ovens and blast furnaces,
and refine the iron into the final steel composition desired in steelmaking
facilities such as open hearths or basic oxygen processes. The
non-integrated producers base their operations on electric arc furnace
remelting and refining of steel scrap. In Mexico, the integrated category
also includes two steel producers (HYLSA and TAMSA) which combine the two
traditional categories in an integrated fashion, utilizing iron ore and
natural gas in the HYL direct reduction process to produce sponge iron
which is used with steel scrap in electric arc furnaces to produce steel.
5.        The industry then is comprised of five integrated steel
producers, a non-integrated private sector including 23 mini-mills of
various sizes, and a number of independent rerollers scattered throughout



ANNEX 2-1
- 50 -                            Page 2
the country.  Three of the five integrated plants are state owned and work
under the management and central control of SIDERMEX.  They are:  Altos
Hornos de Mexico S.A., AHMSA; Fundidora de Monterrey S.A., FMSA; and
Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas de Las Truchas S.A., SICARTSA. Total
employment in these plants amounted to over 53,000 in 1985. The two
private sector integrated producers are HYLSA and Tubos de Acero de Mexico
S.A., TAMSA. Total private sector employment was approximately 35,000 in
1985.
6.        Theoretical crude steel capacity from 1975 to present is shown in
Table 1 below:
Table 1
Theoretical Crude Steel Capacity
('000 tonnes)
1975     1977      1979     1981      1983     1986
SIDERMEX
AHMSA                 2,580    3,330    3,330    3,330    3,950    3,950
FMSA                    980    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500           -
SICARTSA                  -    1 300    1 300    1 300    1,300    1,300
Subtotal           3,560    6,130    6,130    6,130    6,750    5,250
Private Sector
HYLSA                 1,545    1,545    1,635    1,700    1,700    1,700
TAMSA                   360       420      450       465      465       465
Mini Mills              917    1 035    1 440    1,633    1 633    1,633
Subtotal           2,822    3,000    3,533    3,798    3,798    3,798
Total                   6,383    9,130    9,663    9,928   10,548    9,048
% Public                 55.8      67.1     63.4      61.7     64.0      58.0
Source: SEMIP.
Theoretical capacity reached a level of over 10 million tonnes in 1982 with
the partial completion of an expansion at AHMSA.  In this period SIDERMEX
expanded its rated capacity by 901 (although the expansion of FMSA took
place while it was still in the private sector), and the private sector by
35%. Overall public sector capacity grew from 55.8% to 64.0X of the total
capacity in the country. In 1986 the FMSA facility was shut down reducing
public sector capacity to 58.0%.
7.        Production and capacity utilization for the period 1981 through
1986 is shown in Table 2 below.



ANNEX 2-1
- 51 -                           Page 3
Table 2
Production of Crude Steel and Capacity Utilization
('000 tonnes)
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986
SIDERMEX
AH1MSA                2,424    2,279    2,227    2,468    2,603    2,869
FMSA                    961      837      537       822      943       254a/
SICARTSA                804      869    1 013    1 028       613    1,192
Subtotal          4,289    3,985    3,777    4,318    4,159    4,315
Capacity
Utilization X    70.0      65.0     56.0     64.0      61.6     76.7
Private Sector
HYLSA                 1,771    1,576    1,641    1,634    1,631    1,582
TAMSA                   395      383      386       343      279       232
Mini Mills            1,099    1,057    1,097    1,111    1,314    1,046
Subtotal          3,265    3,016    3,124    3,088    3,224    2,860
Capacity
Utilization Z    86.0      79.4     82.3     81.3      84.9     75.3
Total                   7,554    7,001    6,901    7,406    7,383    7,175
I Public                 56.8     56.9     54.7      58.3     56.3      76.1
a/  Production through March 1986.  FMSA shut down operations in May 1986.
Source:  SEMIP.
During this period, 1981 saw the highest production within the industry but
capacity utilization in SIDERMEX reached only 70% while the private sector
maintained higher figures over the full period. In 1986 AHMSA reached its
highest production level but only 72.6% capacity utilization. With the
Phase I restructuring of AHMSA and the removal of a portion of the obsolete
Open Hearth Steelmaking dop the theoretical capacity will be reduced to
approximately 3,500,000 tonnes. FMSA was closed by SIDERMEX in early 1986
taking its 1,500,000 tonnes of capacity out of service completely.
8.        HYLSA has operated at levels very close to its theoretical
capacity for some time (over 90% since 1979). The restructuring effort at
HYLSA is not expected to significantly affect its capacity since the
Phase I project is aimed primarily at improving quality.
C. Production and Consumption Balance
9.        As a result of the oil boom and the related high investment
activities of both the public and private sectors, between 1976 and 1981
both the demand and the production of steel grew vapidly as shown in
Table 3. During these five years the apparent consumption of steel grew by
85%, and the crude consumption of steel products by 100%. In 1981 Mexico
produced 42.5% more steel and 54X more steel products than in 1976.



ANNEX 2-1
- 52 -                           Page 4
Table 3
Production, Consumption and Balance of Steel in 1976-81
(in thousands of tonnes)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980      1981
Production
Crude Steel               5,298   5,601   6,814   7,012    7,024    7,554
Finished Products-        4,038   4,225   5,157   5,784    5,930    6,209
Apparent Consumption
Crude Steel               5,746   5,949   7,317   7,957    9,551   10,652
Finished Products         4,379   4,488   5,538   6,563    8,063    8,757
Balance
Crude Steel                -448    -348    -503    -945   -2,527   -3,098
Finished Products          -342    -262    -381    -779   -2,133   -2,547
Value of
Export (US$ million)         40      69      100      92       40        34
Import (US$ million)        261     235     728      861    1,446    1,782
Source: SEMIP.
10.       With the build-up in productive capability and the economic
crisis of 1982, the country became a net exporter for the first time in
1983. Since then, the shifts in balance have been only  a few percent
with the industry remaining roughly in balance as shown in Table 4.
Table 4
Production, Consumption and Balance of Steel in 1981-85
(in thousands of tonnes)
1981     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Production
Crude Steel                 7,554   7,001   6,902   7,405   7,382   7,176
Finished Products           6,209   5,515   5,418   5,873   5,907   5,575
Apparent Consumption
Crude Steel                10,652   7,998   6,182   7,098   7,552   7,068
Finished Products           8,757   6,301   4,853   5,629   6,043   5,300
Balance
Crude Steel                -3,098    -998    +719    +307    -170    +108
Finished Products          -2,547    -786    +565    +244    -136    +275
Value of
Export (US$ million)           34      73      235     281     145     271
Import (US$ million)        1,782     846     301      474     309     260
Source:  SEMIP.
D. Steel Products
11.       The overall production, consumption and balance for the last six
years by product group are shown in Table 5. Within product groups



ANNEX 2-1
- 53 -                            Page 5
high-quality flat products are being imported while commercial grade
non-flat products are being exported. SICARTSA I, the main exporter,
produces non-flat quality that is acceptable worldwide.
Table 5
Apparent Consumption of Steel Products
('000 tonnes)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Flat Products
Production                 2,955   2,490   2,293   2,500   2,639   2,259
Apparent Consumption       4,164   3,102   2,242   2,582   2,788   2,384
- Balance               -1,209    -612      +51     -82    -149    -125
Non Flat Products
Production                 3,003   2,760   2,891   3,047   2,975   3,108
Apparent Consumption       3,845   2,779   2,404   2,776   3,017   2,733
Balance                -842    -190    +487    +271       -42    +375
Seamless Tube
Production                   251      265     234      326     293      208
Apparent Consumption          748     420     207      271      238     183
Balance                -497    -155      +27     +55      +55      25
Source: SEMIP.
TAMSA, the sole producer of seamless tubing, is closely tied to the
operations of PEMEX, the Mexican petroleum producer, hence the sharp
decline in consumption. TAMSA is left with little option but to attempt to
export in a very difficult world market.
12.       Flat products were produced by AHNSA, FMSA and HYLSA Monterrey
Division. These include plate, hot and cold rolled sheet and coil and tin
plate. The total flat products production for the last six years is shown
in Table 6.
Table 6
Flat Products Production
('000 tonnes of Finished Products)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986
AHMSA               1,329    1,040       961    1,247    1,332    1,320
FMSA                  736      651       540       442      466       219
HYLSA                 890       799      792       811      841       720
Total Flat    2,955    2,490    2,293    2,500    2,639    2,259
Source:  SEMIP.



ANNEX 2-1
- 54 -                          Page 6
AHMSA has the only wide plate mill in the country.  Plate produced at. FMSA
and HYLSA is actually narrow heavy sheet produced on the same mills that
produce hot rolled coil and sheet. All producers are able to produce hot
and cold rolled sheet products. Tin plate is mainly produced by AHHSA with
only a small facility at HYLSA. HYLSA's production peaked in 1981 at
890,000 tonnes while AHMSA attained its highest production in 1985. As is
evident from the table, FMSA, mainly a flat products producer, steadily
declined prior to its shutdown in 1986. With the shutdown of FMSA, there
will be greater opportunity for the other facilities in the country.
13.       Non-flat products are produced by AHMSA, SICARTSA, FMSA, the
HYLSA Puebla and Apodaca Division, and the private sector mini-mills and
rerollers. Non-flat production is shown in Table 7.
Table 7
Non Flat Products Production
('000 tonnes of Finished Products)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
AHMSA                          482     426      440     504     531      450
FMSA                            27      25       35      42      43       15
SICARTSA                       677     617      710     764     529      893
HYLSA                          614     540      520     544     547      559
TAMSA                           28      15       38      56      74       77
Mini Mills & Rerollers       1,175   1,139   1,148   1,137   1,252   1,114
Total Non Flat             3,003   2,760   2,891   3,047   2,975   3,108
Source: SEMIP.
Non-flat products include reinforcing bar, wire rod, merchant bar, and
commercial and structural profiles. SICARTSA I, which has a rolling
capacity of over 900,000 tonnes, is the largest single producer in the
country. HYLSA is the second largest producer followed closely by AHMSA
which also has a rerolling mill near Mexico City. FMSA and TAMSA produce
only a small quantity of non-flats with the balance in the hands of the
private sector mini-mills and rerollers.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



ANNEX 2-2
- 55 -                           Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Raw Material Supply Position
A. Background
1.        At present the Mexican steel industry receives practically all
its raw material supplies (iron ore, coking coal and flux) from internal
sources with the exception of (i) steel scrap, most of which is imported,
and (ii) occasional small quantities of coking coal or pellets for
SICARTSA. Mexico's reserves of iron ore are low grade and relatively small
while proven coking coal reserves are larger and richer. Based on current
projections, local supply sources would be sufficient to meet iron ore
demand fully in the short and medium term and coking coal demand in the
longer term, well into the next century.
2.        Production of ferrous inputs to the steel industry in 1987 is
estimated at 7.7 million tonnes in the form of sinter and pellet feed,
which is sufficient for the present level of consumption of the steel
industry. The open pit iron ore mines of the North currently produce
2.3 million tpy, only 45% of their designed capacity, which means that the
remaining supply for the northern steel mills, an additional
2.4 million tpy, has to be transported by rail over distances of about
1,500 km from the open pit southern mines where reserves are larger.
SIDERMEX owns and operates the two northern mines and one of the mines in
the South, totaling 3.9 million tonnes, or 51% of the 1987 expected
production of ferrous inputs. SIDERMEX, in association with private
companies, also participates with 55% of the capital of another southern
mine, expected to produce 2.7 million tonnes in 1987. The remaining
1.3 million tonnes will come from a mine owned by a private company.
3.        About 70% of the coking coal requirements of the steel industry
in Mexico are met by the production of SIDERMEX coal mines near the
northern steel mills. All the coal mines of SIDERMEX are underground
operations that use the long wall mining method of extraction. The product
is of good quality and mining conditions are relatively easy, which
combined with low labor and energy costs makes coking coal production
highly competitive, although productivity levels have room for
improvement. As the reserve situation is satisfactory, with more than
100 years of production at present levels, the possibility of replacing the
external coal supplies becomes attractive.
4.        While two of the southern iron ore mines remain integrated in the
operations of specific steel companies, and one is an independent outfit
supplying ore to all integrated steel mills, the northern iron ore
operations have been grouped with the coal mines of SIDERMEX into one
single subsidiary, Carbon y Minerales Coahuila S.A. (CMC). SIDERNEX's top
management has manifested its intention to organize this subsidiary as an
independent, financially responsible agency, in order for it to assume the
responsibilities of operating the iron and the coal mines, as well as the
flux materials.



ANNEX 2-2
- 56 -                           Page 2
B. Iron Ore Production Centers
5.        Mexico's iron ore is produced in five open pit mines:  two of
them are located in the Northeast of the country, La Perla (state of
Chihuahua) and Hercules (state of Coahuila); and three in the South, close
to the Pacific coast, Las Truchas (state of Michoacan), Pena Colorada
(state of Colima) and El Encino (state of Jalisco). SIDERMEX owns, through
its subsidiaries, three of these mines: La Perla, Hercules and Las
Truchas   It also owns 55% of Pena Colorada, whereas the remaining 45% is
owned by private companies (28.5% HYLSA and 16.5% TAMSA); El Encino belongs
to HYLSA. At present the total output from these mines, estimated for 1987
at 7.7 million tonnes of ferrous inputs in the form of sinter and pellet
feed, suffices for the expected demand of the Mexican steel mills, however,
the mines of the north currently produce only 2.1 million tpy of the
estimated 4.7 million tpy demanded by the northern steel mills; the
remaining 2.6 million tpy for the northern mills (AHMSA's Monclova plus
HYLSA's plant in Monterrey), is transported by rail, over distances of
about 1,500 km,from the mines in the South.
6.        Despite the fact that it is a deposit nearing depletion, La Perla
is currently the only mine producing high quality ore, suitable to be
shipped, without a concentration process, as sinter feed for AHMSA's
Monclova steel mill (at a rate of 300,000 tpy). This ore is transported by
train. La Perla also produces pellet feed by concentrating lower-quality
material through magnetic separation and flotation processes. The pellet
feed concentrates (786,000 tonnes in 1986) are pumped as slurries to
Monclova through a pipeline of 381 km. The other northern mine, Hercules,
exploits tabular bodies of hematite-magnetite, which produced in 1986 only
752,000 tonnes of pellet feed, or 25% of its installed capacity, and is
estimated to improve its production by 30% in 1987.
7.        The southern mines exploit deposits containing magnetic ores.
The Las Truchas mine is integrated in the SICARTSA complex and produces
pellets only for the consumption of SICJARTSA. The design capacity of the
concen:rator and the pellet plant is 1.78 million tpy, approximately the
same as the volume of ferrous input required by the SICARTSA I steel mill;
both plants are running close to the aforementioned design capacity. Pena
Colorada is a mixed enterprise involving SIDERMEX and the two rivate
groups that operate integrated steel mills in Mexico. Althougrt ?ena
Colorado has a board in which all stockholders are represented, its
management reports directly to SEMIP (Secretaria de Energia Minas e
Industria Paraestatal), and is run as an independent parastatal enterprise,
except for the fact that it only sells pellets to its owners and in a
volume proportional to their equity participation. The installed capacity
of the pellet plant and of the concentrator is 3.0 million tpy, but until
1986 it has only produced at the rate of 2.0 million tpy,because of low
demand from its owners; in 1987 production is projected to go up to
2.7 million tpy. The El Encino mine belongs to Las Encinas S.A., a
subsidiary of HYLSA; because the deposit is nearing depletion (reserves
should last for four to five more years), HYLSA would like to give
preference in the supply of the ferrous inputs for its Monterrey and Puebla
mills, to the pellets coming from Pena Colo ada, and use El Encino to
produce the balance to supply the demand (presently, HYLSA demands



ANNEX 2-2
- 57 -                            Page 3
approximately 2.0-1.8 million tpy and Pena Colorada's 28.5% is
570,000 tpy). The concentrator and the pellet plant located in Alzada,
50 km away from the mine have a design capacity of 1.6 million tpy and are
expected to run at about 1.3 million tpy. The following table summarizes
the present supply situation of iron ore in Mexico.
Mexico Iron Ore Supply Situation, 1987
Production and Capacities by Mine of Ferrous Imports to Steel Mills, 1987
('000 tonnes per year)
Installed          1987 Projected
Mine Plant              Product            Capacity              Production
La Perla               Sinter Feed            600a/                  300
Pellet Feed           1500                  1000
Hercules               Pellet Feed           3000                   2000
Monclova
(pellet plant)        Pellets               3000                   2000
Las Truchas/           Pellet Feed           1470                   1500
SICARTSA
(pellet plant)        Pellets               1785                   1500
Pena Colorada          Pellet Feed           3600                   2600
Pena Colorada
(pellet plant)        Pellets               3000                   2600
Fe Encino/Alsada       Pellets               1660                   1400
a!  Installed capacity of washing plant is much larger, however,
constraints in the availability of reserves would make it difficult to
produce at a yearly rate higher than 600,000 tpy.
Co  Iron Ore Resources and Reserves
8.        Mexico's iron ore reserves are small in volume and low (34-59%
Fe) in grades. At current consumption iron ore supplies would be
sufficient for about 15 years, although mention must be made of the
existence of prospects, which are likely to increase reserves if
exploration efforts are stepped up. Production of ferrous inputs in 1987
is estimated at 7.7 million tonnes in the form of sinter and pellet feed,
which is sufficient to satisfy the Mexican steel industry.
9.        The La Perla deposit occurs in a flat lying tabular body of
hematite-magnatite. As of end of January 1987, geological reserves were
estimated at 16.12 million tonnes of which 9.64 million tonnes are
considered exploitable. Additionally, there are numerous stockpiles of
material, most of which date back to when the concentrating facilities were
not built yet and only lump ore or sinterfeed was produced. Total reserves
at La Perla (mine plus stockpiles) are reported as 17.96 million toxnnes
averaging 57.5% Fe, 0.38% P and 0.07% sulphur.



ANNEX 2-2
- 58 -                            Page 4
10.       The ore at Hercules occurs as tabular bodies of
hematite-magnetite with minor limonite and jarosite; proven reserves are
estimated at 40.6 million tonnes averaging 54.9% Fe and 0.66% P, in
addition to which there are 64 million tonnes of probable and possible
reserves, with grades averaging approximately 55% Fe; the proven reserves
are found in five ore bodies located at a distance of less than 3 km to the
crusher, out of the fourteen ore bodies identified in the area; the two
main ore bodies, which are now under exploitation, have been drilled
adequately (17,000 m. of core drilling); exploratory work remains to be
done in the twelve other identified ore bodies in the area.
11.       The deposits in the South consist mostly of magnetic material;
the Las Truchas mine, where the exploitation rate is 2.6 million tpy of
ore, has 97.8 million tonnes of proven ore containing 51.4% Fe, including
75.4 millioi tonnes of magnetic ore with 39.5% magnetic iron; probable ore
totals 45.6 million tonnes, including 37.2 million tonnes of magnetic
mineral. Because the SICARTSA II expansion includes plans for a
gravimetric and flotation concentration plant (in addition to a magnetic
plant), the oxidized material is included in the reserves estimate as ore;
however, further work has yet to be done in the SICARTSA II project in
order to define if facilities to treat oxidi_ed ore are justified. The
Exploration and Geology Department of SICARTSA is also planning to do some
exploratory work outside the area of the Las Truchas district; six areas
located within a 200 km radius of Lazaro Cardenas have been selected for
this work, based on anomalies found on previous aeromagnetic work. Pena
Colorada shows mineable reserves of 149.1 million tonnes with a grade of
34.2% magnetic iron, extraction is projected at 6.3 million tpy for the
next five years; in addition to the area under exploration, where
exploration continues, two areas outside the Pena Colorada district, but in
the same region, have been identified and selected for further exploratory
work.
12.       El Encino has proven reserver of 12 million tonnes of magnetic
ore averaging 51% Fe of which 90% are mineable, and the extraction rate is
1.6 million tpy. The deposit has been thoroughly studied and the chances
of incorporating additional ore are remote. The stripping ratio is
currently 9 to one in an operation in which the walls of the pit are very
steep (56), thus the economic life of the mine is estimated at 4.5 to 5
more years. Hence, the short life of EL Encino and the need to find an
alternative source of supply of iron ore or ferrous inputs, is a central
issue for the management of HYLSA. The Cerro Nahuatl deposit is now being
opened as a new source of iron ore in order to replace El Encino; Cerro
Nahuatl is located some 30 km away from Alzada (where the existing
concentrator is located), and is a low grade deposit with 31.8 million
tonnes of proven reserves averaging 31.8%.
D. Coking Coal Production Centers
13.       Of tlhe eight known coal bearing geologic provinces in Mexico, two
appear to have potential for economic exploitation of coking c al, one
located in the state of Coahuila and one in Tezoatlan-Mixtepec, Oaxaca. At
present, mining operations exist only in the former.



ANNEX 2-2
- 59 -                           Page 5
14.       SIDERMEX, the main producer of coking coal, operates nine mines
and is developing two new mines in the Sabinas and the Saltillito districts
in Coahuila; all of these properties were initially owned and operated by
AHMSA and FMSA and were integrated in their steel operations. The
separation of the mines from the management of the steel mills ia recent
and dates back, in the case of the mines owned by FMSA to creation of Raw
Materials Division of SIDERMEX in 1984, and in the case of the mines owned
by AHMSA, to 1986. The production of the nine coal mines of SIDERMEX in
1986 totalled 2.4 million tpy of washed coal, and contributed to supply the
Mexican demand for coking coal, as follows:
Supply of Coking Coal to the Mexican Steel Industry
Year 1986
tonnes x 106 Washed Coal
Production from SIDERMEX Mines                    2.4
Comision de Fomento hinero (CFM)                  0.5
Imported                                         0.4
Total Demand for Coking Coal                3.3
In order to produce 2.4 million tpy of washed coal, the mines extracted a
total of 5.7 million tpy run of mine (ROM) of coal with ash content varying
from 40% to 55%, which were fed to four washing plants that operated with a
yield of 44% to produce 2.4 million tonnes with 15% ash content.
15.       The supply coming from the Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM) can
be broken down in 450,000 tonnes of its own mines, which are close to
depletion and working with very high stripping ratios, rendering this
source as expensive and unreliable, and 50,000 tpy produced by small miners
and marketed through the CFM. The imported coal was brought In by the
Lazaro Cardenas port and was consumed at SICARTSA.
B. Coal Resources and Reserves
16.       Because the supply coming from ChM is considered unreliable and
expensive and because the imported coal is more expensive than the Mexican
coal, an adequate supply of coking coal to the steel mills will require
that the volume of washed coal produced by SIDERMEX increase from the
present level of 2.3 million tpy to approximately 3.0 to 3.3 million
tpy. As can be seen, the projected total figure is very similar to the
present consumption of washed coking coal; this is explained by the fact
that most of the growth in the production of steel in Mexico will be
absorbed by the SICARTSA II mill which uses gas instead of coke because its
process is one of the direct reduction and not blast furnace. The
additional volume can come from either improved productivity of the
existing mines or from the expansion of the coal operations in Coahuila.
17.       The coal region of Coahuila covers an area of approximetely
13,000 km2 and includes several districts, which can be grouped according
to the type of coal that each one is known to have, in two well defined
subregions, the southern subregion has a subbituminous coal of medium to



ANNEX 2-2
- 60 -                            Page 6
low volatility (19-22%) which, except for its high ash content (40-55%) and
sulfur content (0.9-1.0%), has very favorable characteristics for the
production of coke; the northern subregion, known as Rio Escondido, has a
subbituminous coal of high volatility and large flame with very poor
characteristic for the production of coke. The former coal is used to
supply the Mexican steel industry and the latter for the generation of
electricity. Proven geologic reserves of coking coal in the Coahuila
province total 861 million tonnes, out of which 562 million tonnes, or 65%
of the total proven reserves, have been assigned to SIDERMEX. The
following table summarizes the equivalences of the SIDERMEX reserves:
Equivalents of SIDERMEX Coal Reserves
Item                      Factor (%)          Tonnes ('000)
Geologic Reserves                                 561,546
Recoverable Reserves         54.8                 307,725
Washed Coal                  41.4                 127,398
Coke                         74.0                  97,274
The above mentioned reserves have been proven through diamond drilling done
on a grid with 500-1,000 m centers; the areas close to faults or those
where important developments were going to be made had additional drilling
done. The recovered cores were used to identify the exploitable width of
the seam at the different locations, by determining in the laboratory the
ash content, the coal content and the washing characteristics o' the coal.
The information thus obtained has been closely consistent with the
19.2 million tonnes of washed coal extracted during the last seven years.
Hence the stated reserves are considered to be reliable.
18.       The Tezoatlan Mixtepec province in the state of Oaxaca has been
subject only to preliminary geophysical and geological work. Further
exploration work has been programmed by SIDERMEX. The interest of these
deposits lies in their location, approximately 300 to 400 km away from
SICARTSA and 150-200 km from the sea. Given the fact that the Coahuila
region is 1,600-1,700 km away from SICARTSA an interesting reduction in the
freight costs, in the supply of SICARTSA, appears as an attraction for the
new area.
F. Organization and Management of CMC
19.       Areas of Responsibility.  CMC has been made responsible for the
operation of the two iron mines in the North and of all the coal mines of
SIDERMEX. The iron mines of the South, in which SIDERMEX has
participation, will continue to operate as previously, Las Truchas as a
part of the SICARTSA complex and Pena Colorada as an independent company.
According to a scheme which has been agreed in principle but which has yet
to be defined in detail, the role of CMC in Las Truchas would be tbat of
the owner, and SICARTSA's that of the operator; a contract would be signed
specifying that CMC would do sll the planning, define the technical
parameters, and later would control the operation. SICARTSA would execute
the plan as defined by CMC. The different treatment of the northern mines
vis-a-vis the southern mines is explained by the geographical distances and



ANNEX 2-2
-61 -                            Page 7
by the different results obtained in the past; whereas the Hercules
operation was allowed to be run down, the continuity in the supply of
sinter feed has been endangered and the maintenance of equipment has been
allowed to slip, Las Truchas supplied its mill satisfactorily.
20.       The situation of Pena Colorada is more complicated.  It is an
enterprise with a 45% share of private capital and 55% state participation
belonging to SIDERMEX. However, the Secretaria de Energia Minas e
Industria Paraestatal (SEMIP) has decided that Pena Colorada will operate
as a separate parastatal company, reporting directly to SEMIP. This has
rendered the Board of Pena Colorada useless, since management can and does
bypass it, coordinating directly with SEMIP. The production of this unit
is sold to the owners in proportion to their participation in the capital
of Pena Colorada, based on the reserves of the deposit (SIDERMEX 55%, HYLSA
28.5%, TAMSA 16.5%). Because the owners of Pena Colorada include all the
integrated mills in Mexico (the rest are mini-mil'ls using scrap as raw
material), there is no additional market in Mexico for the pellets it
produces; no effort has been made to export, not even in an incremental
basis, because it is felt that the benefits would be minimal, if at all,
and it would deplete a scarce resource for Mexico. The owners are charged
a full cost price with the result being an over equipped operation, with
little incentive to reduce operating costs and investments. Equipment has
been installed that enables Pena Colorada to increment its production,
although operation has been running at only 70% of the original design
capacity of the concentrator and of the pellet plant. The installation of
a preconcentrator designed to raise the grade of ore fed to the
concentrator by four to eight points, places the concentrator in a position
to produce above 3.5 million tpy, while the capacity of the pellet plant is
3.0 million tpy and production has been at a level around 2.0 million tpy,
the mine does have the equipment to supply the additional ore.
21.       A situation of excess production of concentrates at Pena Colorada
would clearly interest HYLSA, because it has a pellet plant at a short
distance and a mine that is getting depleted; TAMSA does not have pellet
plant and SIDERMEX could prioritize the increased production of pellets at
Monclova in order to reduce its freight costs from the transportation of
pellets from Pena Colorada to Monclova.
22.       Once the decision to take away the Northern mining operations
from AHMSA and FMSA and to make CMC responsible for them was made, the
issue of where to separate the operations between AHMSA and CMC was
raised. The resulting definition has been essentially geographic; all
operations located in Monclova (the pellet plant and the steel mill) are
run by AHMSA, while those away from Monclova (the mines, the concentrators
and the slurry pipeline) are run by CMC. Whereas in the cases of coal and
sinter feed this decision raises no problems, because both of these
materials can be stored inexpensively either at the washing plant patio, as
a finished product, or at the steel mill, as a raw material; the pellet



ANNEX 2-2
- 62 -                           Page 8
feed concentrates pumped through a slurry pipeline is different.  The
decision Itken to have the Monclova pellet plant under AHMSA's management,
implies a separation of responsibilities of two operations, the
concentrators and the pellet plant, which are linked, not separated, by the
slurry pipeline. Nevertheless, starting from the assumption that La Perla
and Hercules are an integral part of the Monclova operation, and that the
possibilities of these northern iron mines of finding additional markets
for their products are remote, the defined separation of responsibilities
can work, but will demand close coordination between AHMSA and CMC.
23.       Organization and Management.  The Raw Materials Division dates
back to 1984, and it has assumed its responsibilities gradually; in the
initial stage (1984-86) its role was mostly one of establishing policies,
which were considered necessary in order to rationalize the operation of
the mines; at that stage it did not have an operational nor a financial
role. As the operations of AHNSA were transferred in 1986, the scope of
CMC changed notably, and it is only now that it is becoming an independent,
financially responsible entity. The process of implementation, however, is
still under way.
24.       CMC has implemented a centralized structure with the group
management based in Monterrey, hence maintaining geographical distance
between decision makers and operations. The stated intention of the CMC
management is to later decentralize the structure once methods and systems
are in place. This process should be accelerated and the decentralization
should not be made contingent on any event. The great majority of the CMC
executives were recruited in 1986, and came from enterprises in the steel
business with iron and/or coal operations, hence the main sources were
HYLSA, FMSA and AHMSA.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region4l Office
January 1988



ANNEX 2-3
- 63 -                          Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Policy Framework and the Proposed Policy Change
1.        The steel sector plays a strategic role in the deepening of trade
liberalization. A successful restructuring of the steel sector accompanied
by domestic price liberalization, elimination of Official Reference Prices,
lowering and equalization of tariffs for steel products will open up the
road to liberalizing the downstream industries and will contribute to
reorienting the whole industrial structure toward the export market. This
annex analyzes the present status of steel sector policies in Mexico and
the effects of the proposed policy change.
2.        The Government considers the steel industry a priority area, the
development of which is vitally important for Mexico. It has been making
serious efforts to promote the growth of this subsector for several
decades. It created and applied policy sets intended to be favorable for
this industry, helped to generate the necessary internal resources and to
shift external resources from other sectors of the economy into the steel
industry, both directly through budgetary outlays in the form of public
investments and direct subsidies, and indirectly through a system of
protection from outside competition, industrial regulation, fiscal
incentives, etc. This good-intentioned policy-set of the Government has
not led fully to the desired results.
A. Role of Government and Other Agencies
3.        There are several government agencies involved in policy
formulation, control and promotion of the steel industry in Mexico. The
most relevant one is the Secretariat of Energy, Mines and Parastatal
Industry (Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal - SEMIP)
which is the direct supervisor of the state owned steel corporation,
SIDERMEX. SEMIP appoints the top executives of SIDERMEX and its major
operating companies, and oversees the current operations and investment
activities of these companies. It provides the link between them and other
government agencies.
4.        Officially, SEMIP has no authority at all over the private steel
producers, but in practice, its activity goes far beyond the limits of the
public sector in many ways. First, it collects, processes and analyses
data and prepares projections referring to the whole steel industry;
second, it prepares recommendations for the Government, sometimes regarding
the whole sector (e.g., setting domestic controlled prices, quotas, foreign
trade regulations). The formal authority over industrial policies in
general and the steel sector policies in particular, rests with the
Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development (Secretaria de Comercio
y Fomento Industrial - SECOFI), but since SIDERMEX has a predominant role
in the steel sector, SECOFI does not feel responsible for the overall
policy formulation in the steel industry. Nevertheless, SECOFI has
important tasks in many areas like foreign trade regulation and domestic
price setting for the whole steel industry.



ANNEX 2-3
- 64-                             Page 2
5.        The Secretariat of Planning and Budgeting (Secretaria de
Programacion y Presupuesto - SPP) coordinates the preparation of the medium
term plans of the steel industry, approves the investaent plans and annual
budgets of the state-owned steel companies, and monitors the implementation
of these budgets.
6.        The Chamber of the Steel Industry (Camara Nacional de la
Industria del Hierro y del Acero - CANACERO) is a joint organization for
both the private and public enterprises. In addition t) representing the
industry as a whole it provides technical, data gathering and analysis
services. Since the public sector has its strong representation in
SIDERMEX and SEMIP, CANACERO focusses priority on the representation of the
private steel companies.
B. Direct Participation of the Government
7.        The most important element of the Government's policy towards the
steel industry is its direct participation in the production activities.
Presently the public sector represents more than half of the capacity,
production, and employment. Public sector participation in the Mexican
steel industry has evolved not as a result of a deliberate effort to assure
the dominance of the state in this subsector, but rather as an end-product
of a set of actions aimed at reducing unemployment, promoting regional
development and providing reliable domestic steel supply for the industry.
8.        The direct involvement of the Government started in the forties
with the takeover of AHMSA. In the early 1970s, the Government started
(with Bank assistance) the establishment of SICARTSA I, a new, large
integrated steel mill, partly to meet the fast growing domestic demand,
partly to promote the development of the region of Lazaro Cardenas. In
1979 the Government took over the FMSA in order to save it from bankruptcy
and to avoid the layoff of more than ten thousand people. After having
finished the first phase of SICARTSA, in the midst of the oil boom, the
public sector embarked on an even larger project, the SICARTSA II, with 2
million tonne liquid steel and 1.5 million tonne flat product capacity.
This investment, however, has not been finished, because in the wake of the
1982 crisis, both the demand for extra capacities and the resources to
finance the investment have been reduced drastically.
9.        The policy of the Government regarding its direct involvement in
steel production has changed substantially in the last two years. The
Government is trying to streamline the public steel industry, to stop
uneconomic activities and spin off non-essential plants. After seven years
of futile efforts to convert FMSA into a healthy, profit-making company,
the Government closed it in May 1986. Further public investment plans were
reduced drastically and it was decided that a large number of SIDERMEX
subsidiaries will be transferred, sold or liquidated in the near future.
10.       But still there is a link missing.  A more moderate direct
activity of the Government should be accompanied by a far broader
involvement of domestic and foreign private capital. Government policy
with regard to the cooperation and division of labor between the private
and public steel producers is not clearly enunciated, thereby making it



ANNEX 2-3
- 65 -                            Page 3
difficult for the private sector to plan its development in an orderly
manner. The Government has placed a great deal of attention on a
restructuring program for the public sector, but the policies in place are
insufficient to induce the private sector to embark on a similar program.
C. Tax and Fiscal Incentive System
11.       Mexico has a modern tax system.  The income tax, the value added
tax and the excise taxes are the principal taxes which joint1v represented
86% of the tax collection or 9.3% of the GDP in 1985. The steel sector,
like the great majority of industries, pays 42% corporate income tax, 15%
value added tax and does not pay excise taxes. Since there are sectors
which do not pay corporate income tax (e.g., agriculture, transportation)
or pay 0-6% value added tax (agriculture, food industry and transportation)
the steel industry is to some extent at a disadvantage in comparison with
the above-mentioned activities. However, this is not serious since the
industry is the single largest beneficiary of different fiscal incentives
based on investment, employment generation, regional development, export
promotion, etc.
D. Transfers and Subsidies
12.       The Government supports the steel industry with direct budgetary
transfers and indirect subsidies. Naturally the transfers are applicable
only to the state-owned enterprises. These transfers cover deficits on
current operations, and they contribute to physical investments and debt
service. The Government makes constant efforts to reduce the transfers,
forcing its companies to cut current expenditures and save on investments.
13.       The indirect subsidies have been channelled in the form of low
input prices from upstream state-owned companies. Since these prices are
basically equal for every customer, both public and private companies are
beneficiaries of these kinds of subsidies. The steel industry has been
receiving natural gas, electric energy, railway transport and some other
inputs at subsidized price (tariff) for a long time (see Annex 8-1).
Recently there were substantial increases in these prices and tariffs to
the extent that some of them are now at or near the international prices
converted at the controlled exchange rate. (For example, natural gas was
sold in 1982 at 9% of the international price, while in December 1986, its
domestic price was in line with the international price.)
14.       The subsidized inputs were not unambiguously beneficial for the
development of the steel industry. It is true that on the one hand they
helped to transfer resources from other sectors of the economy, but on the
other hand they contributed to the creation of a greenhouse environment for
the steel industry and induced bad or not fully justified investment
decisions. (For example, they distorted the calculations of the
SICARTSA II, based on the use of natural gas for the direct reduction
process).
E. Trade and Pricing Policies
15.       Over the last 20 years, Mexico has followed an inward-looking
import substitution protectionist trade policy in which quantitative



ANNEX 2-3
- 66 -                           Page 4
restrictions (QRs) played a major role and tariffs a secondary one. During
the 1960s and most of the 1970s, QRs covered about 60-65% of the total
imports. With the crisis of 1982, the QRs had been extended to cover 100%
of total imports. Average tariffs were at around 15% in the mid-1970s,
then rose to around 27% in 1982. Effective rates of protection exhibited a
"cascading" pattern with very high levels on final goods and low or
negative levels on primary commodities.
16.       There are two other tools of protection:  the Official Reference
Prices (ORP), which were phased out in December 1987, and the domestic
content requirements. Official reference prices serve as the basis to
calculate the amount of customs duties, and while they were originally
introduced to counteract dumping, they are now used for protectionist
purposes. Since ORPs are sometimes twice as high as the effective import
price, the customs duty to be paid will be about twice as much as it would
have been without ORPs. The domestic content requirement and some
procurement rules of public entities make imports impossible even if it
would be substantially cheaper or of better quality than the competing
domestic product.
17.       This trade regime created an inward-oriented non-specialized
industrial growth. In the case of the steel industry, it led to very slow
growth of productivity, limited specialization, low competitiveness, often
inefficient physical investments, and a detrimental effect on downstream
industries forced to use low quality and expensive domestic steel products.
18.       The Government, in an attempt to eliminate these negative
effecrs, launched a trade liberalization program on July 25, 1985. The QRs
were reduced to 39% of imports, while the average overall tariff level
increased marginally from 23.4X to 25.4% and the coverage of ORPs was
expanded from 4.4% to 7.6% of imports. On June 19, 1986, the Government
issued a Statement of Foreign Trade Policy which announced its further
plans to reduce, by October 31, 1988 the maximum rate of tariffs to 30%,
the tariff average to 17.3% and its weighted average to 10%. This was
replaced in December 1987 with a new policy lowering all steel tariffs to a
maximum of 20% with commensurate averages.
19.       On the basis of the above protection mechanisms the Mexican steel
industry would appear to be protected from outside competition to the
extent that it could easily generate funds needed for debt service,
modernization and modest growth. This is not so, because the internal
prices are controlled and set at a level lower than the international FOB
price. These prices do not allow the steel sector to generate an adequate
level of income.
20.       Table 1 shows the evolution of protection for the steel industry
as a whole. There are no disaggregate studies of effective protection for
the steel industry so this data should be taken as an average of the
protection covering the sector as a whole. The general path that Table 4
shows is that effective protection is very sensitive to the acceleration of
devaluation, this could be principally due to a temporary lag in adjusting
controlled prices of steel products to changes in the exchange rate.
Negative nominal protection indicates also that domestie# controlled prices



ANNEX 2-3
- 67 -                           Page 5
have been below international prices since 1983, with the exception of the
first quarters of 1985. This situation does not appear to have changed
during 1986.
Table 1
Evolution of Protection for the Steel Sector
(X)
Implicit Nominal      Effective
Protection         Protection
1979                                1                 12
1980                                5                 38
1981                                9                 37
March 1983                        -14                 -2
June 1983                         -18                -13
September 1983                    -26                -28
January-March 1985                  5                  9
July 1985                          -5                 -8
December 1985                     -15                -21
Source:  IMCE:  "La Proteccion Efectiva en Mexico, 1985";
preliminary calculation for the year 1985.
21.       Thus, the trade and price control system excluded outside
competition in almost all products produced in Mexico, did not force the
domestic producers to improve the quality and the product mix, or to better
serve their customers, and at the same time, did not allow them to enjoy
the financial benefit of the protection. In other words, the price
controls offset the resource generating benefit of the protection while all
the negative impact of the protection remains in full effect both for the
steel industry and for the downstream industries.
P. Technical Analysis of Proposed Policy Changes: Price Liberalization
cum Tariff Reduction for Steel Producte
22.       This section analyzes the effects of the restructuring cum price
and trade liberalization package, on steel production and prices, and on
the overall liberalization program of the Mexican economy. It shows that
this package will permit an increase in production, quality and prices in
the steel sector. It also shows that the increased competitiveness of the
steel sector will permit a further reduction in steel tariffs by the early
1990s. This, in turn, will allow the deepening of the trade liberalization
program in the downstream industries.
23.       The steel sector is subject to the overall program o  tarlgf
reductions and ORP elimination, but, at the same time is subject to
internal price controls which keep domestic price below the CIF prices of
equivalent imported products. Table 2 shows the status of prices, average
costs and trade policies for the steel industry at the time of Appraisal.
The steel industry was heavily protected from external competition by
tariffs that ranged from 37% for non-flat products to 22.5% for flat



ANNEX 2-3
- 68 -                             Page 6
products, and by Official Reference Prices (ORPs) that raised the tariffs
to a range of 32% for flat products to 51% for non-flat products. Table 2
also shows that domestic producers do not profit from protection because
domestically controlled pcices of most steel products are below
the CIF prices of equivalent imported products (see column C/A).
Controlled prices are also below average cost of all steel products
contributing to the long-run capital erosion of the steel producers (see
column B/A).
Table 2
Status of Prices, Costs and Trade Barriers in the Steel Industry
A        B      C      D      E      F        G
lDmestic
Con-  Average       Official
trolled   Full    C&F    ef-         Adjusted Import
Price    Cost   Price erence         Tfriff   Price
a/       b/     c/   Price  Zriff   d/                B/A      C/A
eabars         209      287    272    300    37      0.51     389     1.37     1.30
Wire Rod       238      -      294    300    37      0.46    406      -        1.24
Co. Prof ile/
Mrch. Pars   213      513    285    310    37      0.49     400     2.40     1.34
Structural
Profiles     298      565    350    310    37      0.43     411     1.90     1.17
Plate          315      319    343    400    22.5   0.32      406     1.01     1.08
Hot Rolled
Coil         290      308    318    400    22.5   0.35      390     1.06     1.10
Cold Rolled
Sheet        407      510    384    500    22.5   0.36      469     1.25     0.94
a/ December 1986 domwstic cmtrolWl prices, extras added. Emcipge rate - US$1 - NM925.3.
b/ Avge full cost of the uwrgensl producer for 1986.
c   i ed average of Jap= (40a), EEC (20%), Brazil (20%) and Korea (l0X) PFM pdres plus
US$40 for freight and insrance plus 5% for port charges.
d/ Official reference price tariff/FOB price.
24.        Under the overall liberalization program, tariffs were supposed
to be reduced to 20% for flat products and to 25% for non-flats by October
1988. Mexican authorities, however, originally prposed to raise flat
product tariffs to 25% and to end up by October 1988 with a 25% uniform
tariff for steel products. The 25% tariff level was thought to be the
minimum politically attainable level for the restructuring period and
covered appropriately the anticipated lag in the devaluation of the Mexican
peso that could occur during that period. Recent events have resulted in a
further devaluation of the peso, however, and the Government has reduced
tariffs on all steel products to a maximum of 20%.
25.        Internal price liberalization is the crucial element of policy
that is lacking to attain an efficient transition toward a more competitive
steel sector. Price liberalization with technical restructuring will bring
cost reductions, increases in quality, increases in production and the



ANNEX 2-3
- 69 -                           Page 7
necessary financial health that will allow the steel sector to compete in
an open market framework with external suppliers during project
implementation.
26.       Table 3 shows a summary of the effects of price liberalization,
ORP elimination and tariff equalization at the 25% level on domestic steel
prices. The upper limits of internal price increases range from 61% for
commercial profiles and merchant bars to 14% for cold rolled sheet. The
last column of Table 4 shows that this maximum domestic price will be only
20% above the opportunity cost of importing steel (i.e., above the CIF
price of imported prodvts).  This is because in Mexico the tariffs are
applied on FOB prices (i.e., a 25% tariff on FOB prices becomes a 20%
tariff on CIF prices). Given the preference for imported products and the
differences in quality between imported and domestic products the most
probable outcome is that domestic prices will stay around the CIF price at
least until quality comparable to imported steel can be attained.
Table 3
Effect of Price Liberalization, ORP Elimination and
Tariff Equalization on Internal Steel Prices
A         B       C        D       E
Domestic
Con-
trolled
Price      FOB     C&F   Tariff  Import
a!      Price   Price    (%)   Price b/   E/A   E/C)
Rebars                 209       219     272      25      327      1.56   1.20
Wire Rod               238       240     294      25      354      1.49   1.20
Comm. Profiles/
Merch. Bars         213        232     285      25      343     1.61   1.20
Structural
Profiles            298        293     350      25      423     1.41   1.20
Plate                  315       286     343      25      414     1.31   1.20
Hot Rolled Coil        298       262     318      25      383     1.28   1.20
Cold Rolled Sheet      407       325     384      25      464     1.14   1.20
a/ Assumes AHESA exits production of commercial profiles and bars by 1991.
b/ Import price - 1.05 (FOB price + 40) + 0.25 FOB price.
27.       The firmer policy package will permit financially, technically
and economically successful restructuring. Table 4 shows that by 1991 all
steel products, but wire drawing and marginally cold rolled sheet and
rebars, will be competitive with the interuational ones. Then, with an
appropriate change in the product mix the tariffs on steel products can be
set at a minimum as soon as restructuring is completed. This, in turn,
will permit deepening trade liberalization in the downstream industries.



ANNEX 2-3
- 70 -                           Page 8
Table 4
Effects of the Restructuring and the Policy Change on the
Competitive Position of the Steel Industry
A              B             C
Average
Costs after        C&F
Restructuring      Prices         DRC           A/B
Rebars                          275             272         1.03          1.01
Wire Drawing                    400             323         2.37          1.24
Comm. Profiles/Bar              275             285         0.93          0.97
Structural Profiles             337            350          1.01         0.96
Rail                            317             456         0.51          0.70
Plate                           258             343         0.59          0.75
Hot Rolled Coil                 282             318         0.75          0.88
Cold Rolled Sheet               374             384         0.94          0.97
28.       It should also be noted that the dollar-denominated exchange rate
to the currency of other steel-exporting countries along with a real
increase in steel prices brought about by reduction in supply in the
developing countries has resulted in higher real prices for steel in the
international market. These factors improve Mexico's competitive position
drastically.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



AMNEX 3-1
- 71 -                           Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Operations, Technology and Strategic Position
A. Introduction
1.        The Mexican steel industry is divided on the basis of ownership
between the public sector producer SIDERMEX and the private sector
producerG HYLSA, TAMSA, the mini-mills and rerollers. From a technology
standpoint the public sector SIDERMEX operates conventionally integrated
facilities using coke ovens, blast furnace and BOP and OH steelmaking.
HYLSA and TAMSA are also considered integrated producers utilizing the
direct reduction, EAF steelmaking process. The mini-mills are conventional
non-integrated producers using purchased scrap or other ferrous inputs to
the EAF steelmaking process.
B. Industry Operating Performance Comparison
2.        By comparing general and specific operating statistics, it is
possible to comment on operating performance and possible strengths and
weaknesses of the sector. The following tables are based on 1985 Mexico
data collected by the mission. Table I indicates crude steel capacity,
actual production in 1985 and resulting capacity utilization.
Table 1
Steel Industry Comparison
Key Performance Factors - Capacity Utilization
('000 tonnes per annum)
Crude Steel       Crude Steel        Capacity
Capacit         Production       Utilization
- t'1000 tonnes)           ------(%)--
AHMSA                   3,950            2,603             65.9
FMSA                    1,500              943             62.9
SICARTSA                1,300              613             47.2
HYLSA                   1,700             1,631            95.9
Mini-mills              1,633            1,314             80.5
10,083            7,090             70.3
Source: SEMIP.
3.        Capacity utilization is a measure of how well the industry
utilizes its facilities resources and contributes to lowering unit fixed
costs. SICARTSA, the newest operating plant carrying a very large
financial burden, had a poor production year in 1985 after reaching 79%
capacity utilization in 1984. This was caused by a blast furnace reline
which shut down all iron- and steel-making at the plant and the earthquake
which hit Mexico in the fall. In total, approximately one third of the
production capacity was out of service. A reline is not due again until
after 1990. FMSA and AHMSA both operated well below total capacity.



ANNEX 3-1
- 72 -                           Page 2
HYLSA, on the other hand, is an example of remarkable performance as is the
private sector in general.
4.        A relative measure of how well the industry utilized its material
resources is given in Table 2.
Table 2
Steel Industry Comparison
Key Performance Factors - Material
Finished
Crude Steel           Steel
Production        Shipments        Gross Yield
-  ('000 tonnes)   -----            ---
AHMSA                 2,600              1,860            71.5
PMSA                  1,940               500             53.2
SICARTSA                610               530             86.9
HYLSA                 1,630             1,390             85.3
Mexico                5,780             4,280             74.0
Brazil                4,000             3,200             80.0
USA                 57,800             45,300             78.4
Korea                 9,200             8,200             89.1
Japan               76,800             72,700             94.7
Sources:  Based on P. Marcus, World Steel Dynamics;
Karlis M. Kirsis, Financial Dynamics of 60
International Steelmakers, March 1986; and SEMIP.
The gross yield for the integrated Mexico producers, as a whole, is the
poorest in the comparison; however, the very low yields at FMSA distort the
figures and that plant has since been closed. Without FMSA the Mexico
figure would rise to 78.1%, close to the USA and the sample from the
Brazilian integrated steel sector. The yield figure clearly points out the
world class capability of SICARTSA, even though underutilized in 1985, and
the example of HYLSA operating a great deal of equipment in t1 flat
products line of a very similar vintage to that at AHNSA but with very
different result. Some of this difference may be due to the lack of
investment at AUMSA in maintenance and systematic upgrading. But the poor
performance may also be influenced by centralized control. Yield
improvement typically comes from close production control, by matching
production and inventory levels with market needs and in general the
management's overall operating philosophy of the plant. A related issue is
product quality and rejects. During 1985 a significant tonnage of
off-specification material was inventoried and sold as seconds at depressed
prices. Improvement in yield and quality will result in lower operating
costs as well as higher realized prices. HYLSA also appears to have done
an excellent job in controlling inventories and maximizing shipments. This
further demonstrates the market and profit orientations of the company.



ANNEX 3-1
- 73 -                           Page 3
5.        The coke rate, given in Table 3, is expressed in kg of coke
required to produce a tonne of liquid iron. In an integrated steel plant
coking coal is the largest single energy input to the plant, therefore, the
coke rate is an important measure of how well a plant utilizes its energy
resourcesj lThe three SIDERMEX plants are the only integrated producers
utilizing the conventional coke oven/blast furnace route. HYLSA's primary
facilities are based on the direct reduction process whloh does not permit
direct comparison,
Table 3
Steel Industry Comparison
Key Performance Factors - Energy
(kg)
Coke Rate
FMSA                                                  657
AHMSA, Plant #1                                       626
AIHMSA, Plant #2                                      560
SICARTSA                                              525
Brazil                                                550
USA                                                   500
Korea                                                 480
Japan                                                 450
Sources: Based on P. Marcus, World Steel Dynamics;
Karlis M. Kirsis, Financial Dynamics of 60
international Steelmakers, March 1986; SEMIP for
Mexican data; and mission visits.
The older blast furnaces of AHMSA's plant #1 show their disadvantage.
However, the newer AHMSA furnace and especially the computer-controlled
furnace at SICARTSA demonstrate world class performance. The high coke
rate of the FMSA furnace, which is the same age as the AHMSA plant #2 unit,
shows the difference in operating practices. Efforts to further improve
the older furnaces at AHMSA are thought to require some investment, but,
compared to other blast furnace operations in developing countries recently
studied (e.g., India, SAIL 843, TISCO 745; and Zimbabwe 775), the Mexican
performance demonstrates excellent capability and no comparative
disadvantage in terms of energy consumption.
6.        Labor productivity and the utilization of the industry's labor
resources shown in Table 4 is an additional set of statistics that provide
relative comparisons and in some cases insight in the typical problem of
overmanning in developing countries.



ANNEX 3-1
- 74 -                            Page 4
Table 4
Steel Industry Comparison
Key Performance Factors - Labor
Shipments       Labor Cost          Annual
Number of            per          per Tonne         Cost per
Employees         Employee         Shipped          Employee
('000)          (tonnes)          ("IS$)            (US$)
AHMSA               32,638a/            96.1            79.7            4,54Zb/
FMSA                12,755a/            39.9           120.3            4,800b/
SICARTSA             7,522a/            70.3            61.8            4,345b/
HYLSA                7,195a/           193.2            61.5           11,877b/
Brazil              31,300             102.2            65.6            6,700
USA                214,200             211.0           186.8           39,400
Korea               13,800             594.0            15.0            8,900
Japan              167,400             434.0            57.8           25,100
a/ Number of employees includes works plus administration.
b/ Total wage bill divided by total number of employees.
Sources: Based on P. Marcus, World Steel Dynamics; Karlis N. Kirsis,
Financial Dynamics of 60 International Steelmakers, March 1986;
and SEMIP and mission estimates for Mexican data.
HYLSA demonstrates the major comparative advantage of the country with the
highest productivity and lowest labor cost per tonne shipped even with an
annual cost per employee more than double the public sector companies.
Since the number of employees at SICARTSA is expected to remain at the
current level and production and shipment increases are expected in 1986,
the probability is that shipments per employee in SICARTSA will reach 120
with cost per tonne shipped dropping to US$36.2 which would rival some of
the lowest labor cost facilities in the world. AHMSA clearly shows the
effects of overmanning due mainly to much of the vintage technology still
in use (e.g., open hearth furnaces) and the large maintenance forces needed
to keep them in operation. Finally the FMSA operation clearly was the
country's worst in terms of labor inefficiency and cost. Overall this
indicates that the country's labor force provides a cost advar.:!ge and can
perform under the proper management and with modern equipment to world
class standards. Public and private subsector comparisons show glaring
differences especially when comparing FMSA and HYLSA which are both in
Monterrey with FMSA actually having more modern equipment.
7.        There are 23 semi-integrated steel producers in Mexico operating
on a much smaller and less capital-intensive scale than the integrated
producers. The plants vary in size from 10,000 to 300,000 tpy and as a
group are considered mini-mills since they produce carbon steel products
using scrap-based electric furnaces. Five of the producers concentrate on
specialty and tool steel products utilizing essentially the same production
equipment.



ANNEX 3-1
- 75 -                            Page 5
8.        The total rated mini-mill capacity is approximately 1.6 mtpy and
as shown in Table 1 operated in 1985 at just over 80% capacity
utill- ,.on.  The mills produced approximately 1.3 mtpy of crude steel but
shipped only 984,000 tonnes of non-flat products. A portion of the
difference went to rerollers in the form of semi-finished billets. All of
the semi-integrated producers are in the private sector although ownership
in some cases may be by state-owned banks.
9.        Karkets served by this segment tend to be local with mills
dispersed throughout the country. The product ranges are narrow with
concentration on items such as wire rods, concrete reinforcing bar and
commercial profiles. In total this segment accounts for almost 20% of the
total crude steel production and 33% of the non-flat products produced in
1985. Raw material for the electric furnaces is primarily scrap, both
domestic and imported mostly from the USA. Sponge iron is not regularly
traded within the country; however, with the SICARTSA II direct reduction
facility coming on line in late 1986 or early 1987 there may be an
opportunity, depending on price, to displace imported scrap with domestic
sponge iron depending on cost.
10.       Total employment is 16,462 in the semi-integrated plants.  For
the steel producers this represents approximately 60 tonnes shipped per
employee. This is quite low when compared to an efficient US mini-mill
which would have labor productivity typically in the range of 500 tonnes
shipped per employee. No data was available on labor cost in this segment,
however, as in the integrated sector, it is believed to be low enough to
bring labor cost per tonne shipped into line with other countries'
efficient producers. It is also difficult I make direct productivity
comparisons since some of the mini-mill operations include further
transformation of the rolled bar and wire into manufactured products like
fencing, fasteners, chain and cable, etc. The manpower utilized in these
operations is not distinguished in the data provided to the Bank. Aceros
Nacionales S.A., a major mini-mill operation, employs approximately 400
people in steel production with a total employment of approximately 2,200.
Labor productivity is over 400 tonnes/employee if the downstream
manufacturing operations are taken separately.
11.       The rerollers typically use billets provided by both the
integrated and semi-integrated producers as feedstock for small non-flat
product rolling mills. In 1985 they produced 261,000 tonnes of such
products in 52 separate companies. Total employment was just above 4,000,
indicating the small business nature of this segment of the industry.
C. Strategic Position Analysis
Methodology
12.       In order to appreciate the strategic market position of the
Mexican steel sector an analysis of the cost and quality dimensions in
relation to the markets for various products by each major producer was
undertaken. Details are included in the Steel Sector Strategy Review dated
October 23, 1986 (Report No. 6429-ME), and in the Project File. The
analysis included a detailed breakdown of production cost weighted by



ANNEX 3-1
- 76 -                           Page 6
quality factors in order to compare real domestic cost to the equivalent
landed price of higher-quality products from efficient world scale
producers and the higher-quality current and future needs of the downstream
users.
Interpretation of Results
13.       For non-flat products the strategic position of the two major
producers, SICARTSA and HYLSA, is equal to or better than the comparative
international norms. These product lines also have potential market growth
which combined with the competitive position supports modest expansion to
serve the domestic market. Data from other private sector producers also
indicate their competitiveness so that overall it is judged that the
industry is in an excellent position in this product area. The single
exception is a substantial cost and quality gap in bar and rod products
from AHMSA. Hence the recommendation to exit these lines allowing other
private sector producers an opportunity to expand their output. The
products of the heavy structural mills at AHMSA are marginal in this
analysis but with the addition of rail products to these mills, which are
the only facilities in the country capable of producing this range of
products, continued operation is justified. Further economic analysis has
also been carried out to confirm these results.
14.       For flat products which are penalized by lower quality but are in
a growing market the analysis confirmed that with rehabilitation AHMSA and
HYLSA could become internationally competitive particularly in hot and cold
rolled sheet. These results were also confirmed by the economic analysis.
15.       Overall the strategic analysis confirmed the product mix shifts
recommended in the Steel Sector Strategy Review and later reinforced by the
independent Market Study.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



ANNEX 3-2
- 77 -                           Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Competitive Position of Raw Material Supply
A. Coal
1.        Production costs at SIDERMEX' coal mining operations are low
overall and competitive with imported coal, not only in the north (as
supplies to AHMSA) but also in the south where SICARTSA is using coking
coal and competitiveness is more critical given transport costs from the
north as well as SICARTSA's location very close to the Lazaro Cardenas
port. Over the past five years, coal production costs have fluctuated
considerably. Their development has been influenced by exchange rate
moJvements, local inflation, variations in quantities produced, and
productivity differentials in different mines and coal washeries. The cost
range of washed coal produced by SIDERMEX is quite substantial, varying
from about US$16.7/tonne to US$33.8/tonne. These differences are due
principally to productivity differences related to the age and layout of
the mine, technical conditions of coal extraction and equipment used. On
the average, the more recent coal mines have higher productivity and lower
costs and, as older mines are phased out and new mines opened, overall
productivity should be further improved.
2.        The competitive position of these mines (Table 1) is very strong
in the north where the distance to AHMSA's installations is less than
100 km of direct rail link. By comparison, the distance to SICARTSA's
steel mill is about 1,400 km and adds about US$15 to the ex-washing plant
cost. However, even at that distance and level of transport cost the most
expensive coal (produced by Hullera Mexicana) costs about US$48-49/tonne
delivered which is still lower than the cost of imported coking coal would
be (US$51-56 tonne). There is however, a quality difference to SIDERMEX
coal which contains about 13% ash against 8% in imported coking coal.
Taking into account this difference, costs of coal from Hullera Mexicana,
delivered to SICARTSA would be about equal to the deliverid price of
imported coal. Coal from the other mines and washing plants would,
however, still be substantially less expensive.
3.        The assessment of detailed production costs from the different
SIDERMEX mines (Table 2) reveals a number of interesting results. The
first one is that in practically all operations, except for Cia. Minera de
Guadalupe, costs in real pesos as well as in US dollars have dropped
substantially over the past five years. The most dramatic case is the Don
Evaristo mine of Carbon y Cok which, albeit with wide fluctuations, showed
a decline of 55%. Although some investments were carried out during that
period and various operational improvements were made, the main reason for
this development of overall costs has been the general decrease in wages,
salaries and prices in real terms in Mexico after the start of the economic
decline in 1982, and the fact that local costs represent a major portion of
total costs in coal mining. Although information on prices of inputs over
the period is not available, the more than 60% decrease of wages of mine



ANNEX 3-2
- 78 -                           Page 2
workers may be a representative indicator of the dramatic drop in factor
costs (but also of the loss in purchasing power).
Wage of Qualified Coal Mine Worker a/
1982     1983     1984      1985     1986
Current M$      540       680      940    1,412    1,969
1982 M$         540       337      281      268       208
US$            9.41      4.52     5.08     4.55      3.23
a/ Base wage per day in SIDERMEX coal operations.
4.        A further conclusion is that substantial cost differences exist
between the various mines and washing plants of SIDERMEX. In 1982, washed
coal was priAuced between US$30 and 52 per tonne while unit cost in 1986
ranged bet-;-an US$17 and 34 per tonne.  These differences are due to
various factors including mining conditions, depth of mine, mine design,
equipment used, age of mine and management, as well as financial resources
to invest, all of them factors which are reflected in productivity and
costs. While a number of changes in the relative positions of the
different operations have occured, the two principal producers (Cia. Minera
la Florida de Muzquiz and Minerales Monclova) have shown a consistently
satisfactory performance and are crucial for the overall competitiveness of
SIDERMEX' coal operations because of their low costs, high volumes and
potential. An exact breakdown in mining and washing costs is difficult to
calculate since SIDERMEX washing plants have in the past not only processed
coal from SIDERMEX mines but also from other suppliers (Comision de Fonento
Minero) and not all elements are known to separately determine the unit
costs of coal from different sources. The figures provided are generally
based on a mixture of SIDERMEX and other coal whereby SIDERMEX mining costs
have been lower than purchase prices for coal from other sources. As
SIDERMEX increases its own production in the future to replace these other
sources, additional cost reductions because of the cost differential can be
expected.
5.        From an analysis of cost breakdowns in percentages (Table 3)
several general conclusions can be drawn reflecting the development of
local and foreign cost as well as of efficiency changes: (i) the
percentage of personnel costs has remained constant or has slightly
decreased in most operations. This is due to the fact that wages and
salaries as well as total costs have decreased. But since wage declines
have been greater, some other parameters such as fringe benefits may have
compensated for this difference; (ii) the percentages of depreciation and
maintenance costs in mines have increased which is mostly due to the effect
of relative increases of prices of imported materials for maintenance and
consistent revaluation of assets in the accounts of Mexican companies; some
investments and operational measures may also have contributed to this
development; (iii) fixed costs have decreased in nearly all operations
showing a conscious reduction of nonproduction related expenses.



ANNEX 3-2
- 79 -                           Page 3
6.        Although the figures discussed should provide a sound basis for
the assessment of overall coal production costs, the details may not be
easily comparable. This is due to the fact that the SIDERMEX coal
operations had two different owners in the past and used different
accounting and costing systems. Differences can also arise because of
different accounting for the various elements in the coal washing process
including the mixture of SIDERMEX coal and coal from other sources.
SIDERMEX raw materials division is currently unifying the costing and
accounting systems for all mines which will facilitate comparisons between
coal operations as well as and decision making.
B. Iron Ore
7.        Mexican iron ore production is competitive overall albeit not as
much as coking coal production and with less potential for further
improvement. Although the mining conditions are in general not very
difficult, ore grades are relatively low compared to international
standards and result in higher production costs for equivalent products.
Comparative costs of iron ore production and imports are summarized in
Table 4. The northern iron ore mines (Hercules and La Perla) benefit from
a natural protection since they are located close and linked to the steel
mill of AHMSA to which they supply pellet feed. The approximate cost of
supply of pellet feed to AHMSA's pellet plant amounts to about US$20/tonne
while imported pellet feed would range around US$35/tonne. Pellet supply
to AHMSA and to HYLSA's northern plant is assured from mines in the south
(Encinas and Pena Colorada) and ranges between US$33 and 36/tonne compared
to costs of imported pellets (from Brazil or Chile) amounting to
US$42.5-44/tonne. A similar difference would hold for pellet supplies to
HYLSA's Puebla plant near Mexico City. The eituation for the south is
different because of he closeness of SICARTSA to the Lazaro Cardenas port.
No detailed information has been received from SICARTSA on the cost of its
own ore supply from the Las Truchas mine although the company has
apparently been able to keep production costs of its own pellets below
purchase prices of imported pellets in the past. Pellets from Pena
Colorada delivered to SICARTSA would currently run around US$33/tonne
compared to costs of imported pellets of US$29.5-31/tonne and studies are
being undertaken whether the relatively long and expensive land transport
cannot be replaced by cheaper barge transport along the coast when SICARTSA
starts up its second phase production facility.
8.        Cost comparisons in iron ore mines are made difficult by the fact
that the coiting and accounting systems are different, financial costs and
assets and therefore depreciation may not be accurately reflected in the
case of La Perla and Hercules, and that La Perla changed its product
composition substantially in recent years and started using mine dumps
which are difficult to evaluate. Cost data available for iron ore mines do
not permit an evaluation of trends of past years but it can be assumed that
inflation, exchange rate movements and the development of factor costs has
resulted in a similar cost decreasing impact as for the coal mines. While,
however, the coal mines have a good potential to decrease costs further
through development of more wodern mines and implementation of additional



ANNEX 3-2
- 80 -                           Page 4
long walls in existing mines, the iron ore operations have only a limited
potential for improvement. Pena Colorada does not operate at full capacity
and could produce at lower costs if its capacity were used fully. Hercules
has a good potential for lowering its production costs since it operates
only at very low capacity. Even so, it is not clear yet whether it will be
a low cost operation if the full impact of financial costs and of past
investments is taken into account. La Perla is rapidly approaching the end
of its life, as is the HYLSA mine Las Encinas, which therefore do not have
much potential for cost reductions. The effect of the planned expansion of
the SICARTSA mine Las Truchas on its costs *nave not yet been determined,
and the potential project of HYLSA (Cerro Nahuatl) is low grade and high
cost. In summary, Nexican iron ore production is competitive but its
competitive position could change easily if macroeconomic developments
would modify the cost of important production factors in relation to c,ther
producers.
Country Department II
Industry, Tr*de, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



ANNEX 3-3
- 81 -                           Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Steel Market in Mexico
A. Introduction
1.        Domestic supply to the Mexican steel market has traditionally
been in the form of low-quality commercial grade mild steels mainly for
construction and other infrastructure uses. Engineering-quality steels of
higher grade are in short supply domestically, are variable in quality and
adversely affect the quality and cost of many final products. Therefore
the majority of the higher-grade steels, particularly in flat products, are
presently imported. A brief analysis of the current domestic product mix
along with some detail of the manufacturing sector are included in this
Annex along with projections for supply and demand through 1991.
B. Market Segments
2.        Details of current steel shipments to the domestic market by
broad industry sector were not readily available at the time of this
report. However, 1984 data from Canacero for domestic production has been
analyzed to demonstrate the approximate current allocation of production
for flat and non-flat products. This is given in Table 1:
Table 1
Domestic Shipments in 1984 - Market Distribution
Xe
All       Flat     Non-flat
Products   Products   Products
Construction                          44          12         73
Autmotive                             12          18          6
Industrial Goods                      10          11         10
Packaging                             10          22          -
Domestic Appliance Production          9          16          2
Agriculture                            4           2          6
Railways & Shipbuilding                3           5          1
All Others                             8          14          2
100        100        100
Source: CANACERO.
3.        Construction is the largest user of steel, taking 44% of overall
production and 731 of non-flats. Reinforcing bar and wire products, mainly
for reinforcing mesh, are the most important items used. Structural
sections are only used in small quantities, since Mexican construction is
geared very much towards concrete rather than steel buildings. Most flat
products for this sector are for the production of steel pipe.



ANNEX 3-3
- 82 -                           Page 2
4.        The automotive industry is the next highest user sector, but only
accounts for 12% of production. This industry is also a large importer
especially of flat products. Domestic producers have generally not been
able to satisfy the price and quality requirements of the companies
exporting steel-based products.
5.        Packaging is currently the most important user of flat products.
This is attributable to the large use of tinplate for canned goods, and
other metal packaging requirements. This demand is likely to continue for
some time, but increasing use of plastics and aluminium for packaging would
erode this market in the longer term.
6.        The industrial goods sector, plant machinery and equipment, with
some 10% of both flats and non-flats, is surprisingly low, and reflects two
important factors: firstly, the low current level of activity in oil and
petrochemical development compared with the early 1980s; and secondly, the
low general levels of development and activity in the capital goods
industry.
C. Supply and Demand Projections
7.        In order to plan for the longer term and as a basis for further
restructuring of the sector, an in-depth, industry-wide market and product
mix study has been undertaken. This study includes: (i) a review of the
steel-consuming market segments along with growth patterns in the uses of
various steels and competing products; (ii) a review of steel production
capabilities detailing ranges of products, capacities and interlinkages
between products; and (iii) overall supply/demand projections and
identified gaps in current capabilities that would offer opportunity for
investment. The results of this study are still being evaluated by the
steel producers and will be integrated in their strategic plans. The data
presented in the following paragraphs is based on earlier work done by
SEMIP and projections made by Bank staff at the time of appraisal. These
results have been compared with the results of the market study and
although there are some small differences between products the overall
estimates of demand growth through 1991 are very similar. The Bank's
estimates of market growth are lower and therefore the Appraisal Report
represents a more conservative view of the future.
8.        The projections prepared by Bank staff take into consideration
projections prepared by SEMIP in April 1987, which included a base case and
an alternative scenario which included a severe decline in 1989 due
apparently to changes in Government. The average annual growth rates in
these projections range from 9.0% for all steel products in the base case
down to 3.1% in the alternative scenario. The base SEMIP projections seem
very optimistic and result in consumption levels by 1991 surpassing the
1981 peak year. The alternative scenario conversely seems overly
pessimistic especially for industrial planning purposes. In contrast the
Bank staff estimates included in the October 1986 Steel Sector Strategy
Report represent a conservative and less dramatic view of the future. The
simple underlying assumptions in these projections are a 3-4% p.a. growth
of GDP and a gradual opening of the Mexican economy which is expected to
lead to a faster-than-average growth of the manufacturing industry. This



ANNEX 3-3
- 83 -                            Page 3
results in a growth in demand from the 1986 level of about 4.4% for flat
products, 3.3% for non-flats, 3.5% for seamless tubes and 3.8% for total
products. The actual results of these projections including a breakdown of
product categories are given in Table 2.
Table 2
Projection of Apparent Consumption of Steel Products
(thousands of tonnes)
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
Flat Products
Plate                    580       605      632       660      689       719
Hot Rolled Sheet         584       610      637       665       694      730
Cold Rolled Sheet      1,016    1,060    1,107    1,156    1,237    1,260
Tin Plate                204       220      230       240       252      262
Total Flat          2,384    2,495    2,606    2,721    2,872    2,972
Non-flat Products
Reinforcing Bar          925       956      987    1,020    1,054    1,088
Wire Rod                 754       779      805       831       859      887
Profile & Bar            774       /99      825       853      881       910
Structural & Rail        280       289      299       309      319       329
Total Non-flat      2,733    2,823    2,916    3,013    3,113    3,214
Seamless Tube              183       189       196      203       210      217
Total Products      5,300    5,507    5,718    5,937    6,195    6,403
Source: Bank staff.
These projections lead to a total growth in five years of 20.8% in all
products, 24.7% in flat products, 17.6% in non-flat products and 18.6% in
seamless tubing. The consultant study results in a total growth in five
years to a level of 6,618,000 tons of total product, only 3.3% larger than
the Bank staff estimate. This figure includes soze shifts in products
resulting in a flat product level of 3,038,000 tons, non-flat of
3,335,000 tons and seamless tube of 245,000 tons. The consultant
projection bayond 1991 is for overall growth at approximately 5.1% per
year.
9.        Projections of production for the next five years for the same
product categories are given in Table 3. These figures include the
production of FMSA for 1986.



ANNEX 3-3
- 84 -                           Page 4
Table 3
Projection of Production of Steel Products
(thousands of tonnes)
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
Flat Products
Plate                    497       513      559       605      643       665
Hot Rolled Sheet         697       587      551       698       722      801
Cold Rolled Sheet        897       978    1,021    1,103    1,139    1,148
Tin Plate                195       214      229       250      261       262
Total Flat          2,259    2,292    2,360    2,656    2,765    2,876
Non-flat Products
Reinforcing Bar        1,382    1,150    1,151    1,168    1,152    1,127
Wire Rod                 790       800      820       850       875      900
Profile & Bar            755       770      800       825      850       875
Structural & Rail        181       200      250       300      325       350
Total Non-flat      3,108    2,920    3,021    3,143    3,202    3,252
Seamless Tube              208       2i0      217       225       233      240
Total Products      5,575    5,422    5,598    6,024    6,200    6,368
Source: Bank staff.
10.       Projections of production for flat products is based on
production plans of the two producers as laid out in the respective
restructuring projects. It is assumed that each can penetrate the
higher-quality market now going to imports as their technical and marketing
capability improves.
11.       The non-flat products categories, reinforcing bar, profile and
merchant bar can be produced by practically all the producers. Wire rod is
limited to fewer facilities. Therefore, non-flat projections by producers
are more arbitrary. SICARTSA I projections were used as a stating point
assuming that plant reaches and sustains high product levels by the 1990/91
period. HYLSA which is the second major producer is rot involved in any
significuat technical improvement program and is assumed to maintain its
current high capacity utilization. AHMSA has reduced production based on
product mix changes to better serve the flat products market and the
-balance is assumed to be taken by the remaining producers in a manner
consistent with their performance in the last several years.
12.       Estimated production by producer is shown in Table 4 with the
further assumption that TAMSA will continue to actively pursue the export
market for seamless tube and will maintain a production level   *ve the
domestic market consistent with the last several years.



ANNEX 3-3
- 85 -                           Page 5
Table 4
Projection of Production by Producer
(thousands of tonnes)
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
Flat Products
AHMSA                  1,320    1,582    1,597    1,832    1,963    2,026
HYLSA                    720       710      763       824       802      860
Other                    219         -        -         -        -         -
Total               2,259    2,2^2    2,360    2,656    2,765    2,886
Non-flat Products
AHMSA                    451       270      321       398      402       402
HYLSA                    559       550      550       550       550      550
SICARTSA                 892       900      950    1,000    1,050    1,100
TAMSA                     77        50       50        50        50       50
Others                 1,129    1,150    1,150    1419    1,150    1,150
Total               3,108    2,920    3,021    3,43    3,202    3,252
Seamless TubinR
TAMSA                    208       210      217       225      233       240
Total Products
AHMSA                  1,771    1,852    1,918    2,230    2,365    2,428
HYLSA                  1,279    1,260    1,313    1,374    1,352    1,410
S1CARTSA                 892       900      950    1,000    1,050    1,100
TAMSA                    285       260      267       275      288       290
Others                 1,348    1 150    1,150    1,150    1 150    1 150
Total               5,575    5,422    5,598    6,029    6,205    6,378
Source: Bank staff.
13.       In overall balance production of flat products remains below the
very conservative demand projection. Due to interlinkages between the
producti.in facilities for some plate products and hot and cold rolled sheet
and coil shifts are possible depending on actual demand. As quality
improves the balance decreases inlicating successful implementation of the
overall restructuring plan. In the non-flat product categories, commercial
profiles and bars and structural and rail where imports have existed in the
past, the projections remain below the demand estimate assuming some
products will still not be available in Mexico. This could change as
SICARTSA I improves its product mix and uses its excellent facilities to
satisfy more of the domestic demand. In the traditionally exported
products reinforcing bar and wire rod, exports are assumed to continue but
at a declining rate. Table 5 provides a projection of balance for each
product category.



ANNEX 3-3
- 86 -                           Page 6
Table 5
'.roduction Consumption and Balance of Steel Products
(thousands of tonnes)
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
Flat Products
Production             2,259    2,292    2,360    2,656    2,765    2,876
Consumption            2,384    2,495    2,606    2,721    2,872    2,972
Balance                 -125     -203      -246       -65     -107       -96
Non-flat Products
Production             3,108    2,920    3,021    3,143    3,202    3,252
Consumption            2,733    2,823    2,916    3,013    3,113    3,214
Balance                 +375       +97     +105      +130      +89       +38
Seamless Tubes
Production               208       210      217       225      233       240
Consumption              183       189      196       203      210       217
Balance                  +25       +21      72-1      +22      +23       +23
Total
Production             5,575    5,422    5,598    6,024    6,200    6,368
Consumption            5,300    5,507    5,718    5,937    6,195    6,403
Balance                 +275       -85     -120       +87       +5       -35
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



M - s                 9Rw m pEwr
Hoaix of ism, 1me and Atios
tr            Prohias                               Actions Taken                                Actions To Be Takem                    toiitoriZg Ations aol T6in
L. Structural lear
1.   k        Polic
Controlled It-c  pric bes               tMtnchly adjustment btsed o A ati               Elionatimn of price contrls. Cntinued                 ete  ulctn of price
International oppwrttxty cost;           Inflatin iMac   Pric  Increasm In              adjuarts of prics In real          base  an      controls by   arer 31, 1988
adjute  for inflation   n a d hoc                1987 amA Jurazy 1988 to teach or      anticipeted dwes In the Oxwar Pric  Isd           (lmu,e 2 release). r aly
basi.                                    emceed equiwlat led   prim larels.             until empletim of pric  liberaliition.           adjus-   of pris in real tens
aatil dit Gae.
2.        Po
Htgh taiffs mA high offical                  eliaiiwted in Decmaber 1987. Tarffs        Ph further actioes are s ded or p    d at        Cbutinued  dntem2 of sdced
referens prics (P) do atwt all           reduced on 1l1 steel products to 0-15Z i       prIset                                           taiff lewles wiut further am
exteLal      1                               Ttitiome   1987.                                                                             restrictions wA/or reintroduction
of Beferen  Prices.
3.  aobe' St        mu fl
Iai of defintio  of pblc sector         Beluatim of the production mrAstiat    Qintiuee evalation Of I              tera production      Prepration of SIIE lme
scop ad role.                            strate  of SIESL   Preliminary                 and in     t  stratye of SIIEL                   Strategc  Plan by &Arch 1908.
amoltduw led to aortiore t r SMER
Beetnntwng belw.
lad  of lo-term, polic, framk.           Outline of Mnbal Steel Sector Pblicy           Dateniz  tie long-term taiff, pricing, arA        Preparstion of Mobal Steel Sector
preaented in Jamiary 1988 as the Steel        tax/iometive policy fOr tie ector sucb Oht        Policy   a       by July 31, 1988,
Sector Policy letter. Maret and Product       aD revemr    occar on the agreel policy           balW subetantia y     the Policy
Mix Sttdy coaleted In Sepember 1987.          padmg.                                            letter (liance 2 Re's).
4. Qmtitative lmuort Pestriction
lhestic cotat rquirmenes on steel         Rthr evaluation urler my as part of           Oadual elimlnatim of sae restrictions.            tkder the ponposed  dial
uer.                                     subect   stuies for  ropsl Indutrial                                                             Restructitrivg Iosm
lbstrtcturing tana.
IL. s      0x Restrcurin
lnefficient, centralzed magmet.          Reorganization _talo  five profit ceters        xuplete foimtim of fiwe irdepeit                Duriig 1988.
Ide SImEX   SIlDt departments ad             coapes under SUM=E acting as a holding
fuaaction  edud to only tdoe ze uy by   cny.  Foralize holing apy
a bolding oQany and saff reduced by 700.    relatiomuhips.
Ibyslop   _ t        t xtrol and operatig        an  198B as part of the project.
systems anid procedures for bolding  ac pey  wA
profit cers.ntr



_ubeecor-wide 9 Problm                              Actions Taken                                 Actims To Be Tal                      MMitoring Actik and Timug
Ctra.iUod Darketing with service         Sal  responsibility devolved to plaits and    Detarmite fmetion of srvice  oente.-s,            fn-ing 1988 as part of the project.
cnters lad to a breakduA of service      service oenters canerted frae cost to          incorporate, and decide mther to privatize.
to clients.                              profit acnters.
ITmfficient facilities.                  Smtdma of RM san associated dme , and    FPrther rationalization of the ARA product             Daing 1988 as purt of the project.
tentative deciim  to discoinimm sme-late   lm, iztialig possible lay-off of 4,000
at AlA; 12,000 wirkers laid off.              additional workers.
2. Fi:nncial Structure
Inefficient organizatim brou&t lowr    Signature of Qxmenio with Gveent wde             S m1 to tale steps to fulfill the tarets          ang 1988 as part of tde project
productivity, amirntAnce. uttketing     which asbot tE83 million equivalent, or        specified by the Cawvilo.                         IMI-ttioui
ard product udx probles tdat ended up    502 of the total debt on SMIE s books
in f-isil zestricticus that me it    wil be axwerted to equity. SIE(
i    _icasil  for tih grsw  to reawr     agrees to follw a tedctdcal restrutuin
fiaial bealth idtbout debt               plaa with specific targets to recive this
Lesucturing.                             debt ref durig 1986, 1987 and 198
3. cal s
iinteAmic 1b-dlOg, iffiCimit            Studies and formulatim of a tedmicel           Cletim of o i  staies.   pematati                 1988 to 1990. as part of tle
product-ixt, l1ow quality in edatin      pI gra for reblUitatiee  of SUiE*              of first ise nbhilitation investmats.             roject.
production a   city.                     operating plants md utiliatim  of RFI
facilities.
Capacity emo on in llgt of                Ptelimumry evaluatin of SMB> II               Gapletion taciml md eonomic evalattosu            SflG    Strateic Pan to be
optimizatim (balancig) of atin           femibility. Qultmt study of SIIM               of alternatiw  routes for SI1M1  lo1g-ten         coMleted by lr   1988.
asd proposed m  facilities  IncU          long-term strateg  completad in October       developit, aincldng a fitl decisim m tim
amoletion of the S W   II                1987.                                          scpe of the SMAWS  fI plJat.
inm_.
IL  Private Sector
1. HY1U    can owtribute to debt servic     Peaenatio  of a ompreasive debt                FOrmUztion of ibatructrig Agreasets in           Qdtiton of dLsburait of ISA
bat ct be finanialy viable               restruing plan bed on stu  by i Ib             1988I.                                            co_smnt
without a debt restructurig.             Dli to determum ipe     t capacity.
amplettn of egotiatiai  cn a debt
restcetri   cage with anmrcial  asis.
2. Wrni-mlIs h1m  restricted product        fc         to a9pete SBI>    II invtmEnt    biAew S1CWAS    II decii. md ax.,,lete plat   Stuiaes a-lete  during 1987;
qusality beo     timy ae scap bed.       thnrouh sp    ira n plant stage to provide     throgh spo   imr  stage.                          spoW  iron plait will be ocsia-
Qomd potential clients for spW   irn.   srce of priary iroQ to feed dmwstic                                                               ioad in late 1988, following
dewam!d.                                                                                        reviewtof SU =  long-term
Stratgc  Pla  in MWrh 1988.
3. Credit Avalablity
Difficulties of private mini-mills to    (alet4tg procures of interudiarias of          Adjust t of existing  idustrial credit lianes    IE  W       " Cred  "n- and the
get credit 14r for wrking andl            edsti  ls  ing reviewd.                       and prepration of props  Industrial               poposed IrAustrald Kestructrig
inventusunt capital.                                                                    R.uStructuarig                                         Loan.
Onsitry Deparbout 11
Listry,  e,  tmnnce &ctor Oegtional  Dicvisim
latin As rica Tr d the aribbean bgealtI Officeio
Pebary 1988                                                                                                                                                                              X



- 89 -                     AM  4-2
Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECI.
Steel Sector Pollcy Letter1
Restructuring of the Parastatal Steel Industry
Restructuring the parastatal steel sector is internded to enable it
to expand the already major role it has taken in the process of
industrialization and national development.
The Mexican Government has promoted restructuring of this sector
so as to make the domestic supply pattern compatible with international
supply, correct the low utilization of sector Installed capacity, and
hasten the c.evelopment of steel substitutes. In the course of a November
1986 address to the Chamber of Deputies, the Secretary of Energy, Mining
and Parastatal Industry enumerated the following as the goals of the
industrial reorganizatioa proposed for the parastatal steel sector:
(a)  to moderni?e the industry by ctmpleting projects in progress,
launching facilities improvement prograws, and closing down
structurally inefficient operations;
(b) to raise industry opetating efficiency by eradicating the problems
associated with obsolescence of equipment and poor integration of
chains of production;
(c) to raise the operating efficiency of mines and processing plants
to as to counter the inadequacy of coal and iron reserves;
(d) to link the sector efficiently to the external market; and
(e) to put the financial structure of the sector on a sounder footing
and generate resources for its expansion programs.
Policy Outline for the Parastatal SteAl Industry
Signature of the Financial Rehabilitation Agreement with the
SIDERMEX Group in September 1986 marked the beginning of the restructuring
process. Commitments by both the Federal Government and the Group were
spelled out and a timetable set for the goals to be achieved by the
enterprises over the period 1986-90. In 1986 and the first months of 1987,
the following steps toward restructuring of the industry were accordingly
taken:
(a) Internal Reorganization of SIDERMEX. SIDERMEX as a holding
company was organized on a more rational basis, retaining only
those functions properly belonging to a supervisory entity. The
enterprise themselves were vested with the functions that would
This is a Bank translation of a signed letter from the Government
(SEMIP and SECOFI) dated January 15, 1988, titled *Lineamientos de
Politica para la Industria Siderurgica Paraestatal."



- 90 -
Page 2
allow them autonomy of management, particularly in marketing and
finances.
(b) Reorganization of the Marketing System. Previously, there was no
link between production and the demands of the market, since the
steel producers themselves were not responsible for marketing
operations, which were concentrated in the hands of the holding
company and marketing entities that functioned independently of
them. Currently, only planning and coordination are the
responsibility of the ho]iing company, while domestic marketing is
left to the enterprises themselve.s and export activity to SIDERMEX
International, Inc.
(c)  Deregulation of External Trade.  Mexico's accession to the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade on August 24, 1986, constituted a
further step toward rationalizing protection, assuring the
enterprise of high-quality, low-cost inputs against a background
of international competition. In this regard, the Federal
Government abolished the mechanism of official benchmark prices as
of January 1, 1988. In addition, although the original proposal
had been to set a maximum duty of 25% on steel products beginning
in October 1988, a new tariff ranging from 0 to 20% was brought
in on December 15, 1987, within the context of the Economic
Solidarity Pact, with steel products subject to a duty range of 0t
to 15%, a move which will further the goal of creating a more
rational structure for production in this branch of industry.
(d)  Institution of a New Pricing Policy.  While liberalizing external
trade for the steel sector, the Mexican authorities also
instituted a timetable for the deregulation of domestic steel
prices, a process scheduled for completion in mid-1988. The
program, as approved by the Secretariat of Trade and Industrial
Development on October 1, 1987, is set up as follows:
(i) Phase I. January 1988: Elimination of controls on domestic
prices for seamed pipes, wire products, forged-quality wire,
low-carbon wire, and wire rod.
(ii)  Phase II. March 1988:  Elimination of controls on domestic
prices for heavy shapes (structural), merchant rods and
shapes, ingots, billets, and coated sheet.
(iii)  Phase III. June 1988:  Elimination of controls on domestic
prices for hot-rolled sheet, cold-rolled sheet, tin plate,
corrugated rods, and plates.
This scheme is designed to link the parastatal steel industry
efficiently with both the domestic and international economies,
ensuring that it gives preference to manufacture of products that
allow it to capitalize on the country's structural advantages.
(e) Reduction in Size of SIDERMEX Group. Besides its full members,
the SIDERMEX Group also had 87 associate members. With the idea
of forming a cluster of enterprises engaged exclusively in



- 91 -
Page 3
producing steel and priwary commodities, it was decided the Group
should divest itself of all enterprise not meeting this criterion.
Recently, in the Economic Solidarity Pact, the Mexican Government
reiterated its intention of continuing and even accelerating this
process of divestiture of non-strategic and non-priority
enterprise.
(f) SIDERMEX Strategic Plan. At the end of March 1988, the SIDERMEX
Group will issue its Strategic Plan, which will incorporate the
capital spending program that includes the investments earmarked
for the first phase of industry restructuring. The Plan will set
out the actions through which the rationalization of both
operations and organization will be continued, a process that
began with the Financial Rehabilitation Agreement between the
Group and the Federal Government. Given the results of both the
long-term strategy and market studies conducted recently by
international corsultants and SIDERMEX's own analyses and
evaluations, the Plan does not envisage promoting new projects to
create additional installed capacity. It will instead concentrate
on achieving more intensive use of existing facilities, efficient
balancing of lines of production, higher yields and greater
productivity, and on ensuring that projects already under
construction justify themselves technically and economically.
(g) Capitalization of GrouD Enterprises. The SIDERMEX Financial
Rehabilitation Agreement lays the foundations on which the steel
producers in the Group can achieve financial self-sufficiency.
They have been reorganized financially by means of increases in
their capital stock that will enable them to reduce their
liabilities and financial charges and generate enough cash flow to
fund their restructuring programs. Consequently, the Mexican
Government's intention for the long term is not to intervene
financially in the parastatal steel sector any further than is
provided for in the Financial Rehabilitation Agreement, under the
terms of which the enterprises commit themselves to, among other
things, restricting annual borrowing to real payment capacity,
tailoring investment plans to income growth, and rationalizing
recurrent expenditure generally. Within 90 days of publication of
the SIDERMEX Strategic Plan, the Government will announce a global
policy for the steel sector that marks out the fields of activity
of its parastatal and private branches and defines the
Government's specific policies, criteria and intentions for the
industry as a whole.
In addition, the Government is continuing its efforts to
restructure public finances and place them on a sounder footing, a process
which involves ensuring that the parastatal enterprises become financially
self-sufficient, are run by professionally competent managers, and conduct
their operations in an atmosphere of administrative and financial
transparency. The divestiture of public enterprises in non-strategic
sectors is also going ahead, and it is hoped to accelerate the process
during what remains of the present Administration's term of office; as far
as SIDERMEX itself is concerned, 50 of its 87 associate member enterprises
are currently in the process of sale, winding up or merger.



- 92 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4
In general terms, the Government is intent on transforming the
steel sector into a productive, competitive industry organized on modern
lines and equipped with up-to-date plant and facilities, the ultimate goal
being to support the development of the manufacturing industries that are
dependent on steel.
By letter of February 7, 1988, and in view of the provisions of
the Economic Solidarity Pact, the Government clarified the actions under
para (d) as follows:
a)  the Guvernment remains committed to complete elimination of
price controls;
b) during the period leading to complete elimination of price
controls, the Government will adjust monthly the domestic
steel prices in real terms. The March 31, 1988 prices will
form the base prices for such adjustments.
c) All price controls will be eliminated by December 31, 1988.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



- 93 -                           ANNEX 5-1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Imports Eligible for Financing
1.        Expenditures for the following imported products will be eligible
for financing under the Part A component of the loan:
Divi-         Sub-
Description of Item                                   sic  Group  group
Sands, natural of all kinds                             -      -   273.3
Clays & other refractory minerals                       -      -   278.2
Iron ore & concentrates                                 -    281    All
Ferrous waste & scrap                                   -    282    All
Bituminous coal, not agglomerated                       -      -   321.21
Coke & semi-coke of coal                                -    325    All
Fuel oils                                               -      -   334.4
Iron oxides & hydroxides                                -      -   522.54
Refractory bricks & other refractory materials          -      -   662.3
Refractory ceramic goods                                -      -   663.7
Iron & steel                                           67    All    All
Structures & parts of structures of iron or steel       -      -   691.1
2.        No withdrawals will be made to finance import of any goods:
- Supplied under a contract which any official national or
international financial institution or agency shall finance through
a loan or any financial instrument with maturity longer than one
year.
- Intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



ANNEX 5-2
- 94 -                          Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The AHMSA Component
A. Introduction
1.       Altos Hornos de Mexico S.A., AHMSA, is the largest steel plant in
Mexico with a rated crude steel capacity of 3.9 million tonnes per year.
In 1986 crude steel production exceeded 2.8 million tonnes and finished
products aproached 2.0 million tonnes, the highest level in the plant's
history. The plant produces both flat and non-flat products primarily for
the domestic market.  Based on the Steel Secto- Strategy Review completed
in October 1986, the Bank recommended that AHMSA reduce or exit some of the
non-flat. products for which there are other more efficient domestic
producers and concentrate on producing higher-quality flat products now
being demanded by the country's engineering industries. This
recommendation has been accepted in part by SIDERMEX and AHMSA management
with an agreement to review the production costs and product offerings in
light of predicted domestic demand and alternate sources of supply. A
market study is currently under way and a detailed strategy study planned
for all of SIDERMEX which will provide a basis for long-term facility and
product planning.
B. Objoctives of the Project
2.        The restructuring project developed by AHMSA concentrates on
improving the competItive advantage of ite flat products, primarily hot and
cold rolled sheet, through investments in catch-up maintenance,
debottlenecking and quality improvement in the facilities related to the
production of these products. Other facility maintaining investments are
included to keep the balance of the plant in operating order until other
strategy studies are complete and the overall strategy elaborated.
3.        The new investments are primarily aimed at reducing operating
costs and improving product quality by increasing production in the plant's
most modern steelmaking and continuous casting facilities and balancing
these with improvements in the hot strip mill and cold rolling mills.
Secondary investments are included in catch up maintenance of operating
equipment from the coke ovens to the rolling mills and plant services in
order to improve availability and reduce unplanned shutdowns and the
subsequent negative impacts on productivity. Other maintaining investments
that will be made by AHMSA and investments related to introducing the
production of rail on the heavy atructural mill are also considered in the
project description and analysis. However, the major criterion for all of
the project components is that they are in product lines that are expected
to remain viable after the market and strategy studies are completed, and
that they will result in internationally competitive products with costs
that are both financially viable to AHMSA and economically viable to the
country.



ANNEX 5-2
- 95 -                            Page 2
C. Produetion Program
4.        The rehabilitation project is set against the projection of
apparent consumption of flat products detailed in Annex 3-1. The
projection of production of flat products for AHMSA is shown in Table 1
based or the criterion that AHMSA is the marginal producer. These
projections take into consideration the production program of HYLSA and the
effect of its restructuring effort thereby reducing the portion of the
market available to AHMSA. This remaining portion is allocated to AHMSA to
the extent of its capacity for each product. These projections do not
include products that are not now currently produced in the country (e.g.,
some silicon steels, chrozized sheet, etc.). The growth assumptions are
conser'.ative in that they accept the decline in apparent consumption of
1986 as a starting point and project an increase from this base of 4.4X per
year thereafter. Plate production beyond 1991 may be affected by decisions
regarding SICARTSA II which will be reviewed in the strategy study.
Table 1
Projections of Production Flat Products - AHMSA
(in thousands of tonnes)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Product Category
Plate                    346      421     460      500     540      540
Hot Rolled Sheet         322      385     304      440     469      500
Cold Rolled Sheet        483      570     617      666     717      738
Tin Plate                169      206     216      226     237      248
Total             1,320   1,582   1,597   1,832   1,962   2,024
The reduction in hot rolled coil production anticipated in 1988 ceflects
the time the hot strip mill will be out of service for rehabilitation.
Other mill outages have also been taken into considerat'on in the
production planning exercise.
5.        The projectIon of consumption and national production capability
for non-flat products is shown in Annex 3-1. The production for AHNSA is
shown in Table 2 and is in products where there is no other supplier in the
country or as in the case of wire rod where AHMSA appears to have a
competitive advantage based on wire drawing facilities of their
wholly-owned subsidiary Southern Division near Mexico City. The production
scenario has been developed in order to properly allocate all the primary
facilities for iron and steelmaking as well as developing the finished
product figures for the plant.



ANNEX 5-2
- 96 -                           Page 3
Table 2
Projections of AHMSA's Production for Non-flat Products
(in thousands of tonnes)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Reinforcing Bar           76       0       0        0       0       0
Wire Rod                 155     103     139      141     145      145
Profiles & Bar            80      84      84       84      84      84
Structural & Rail         75      80      95      170     170     170
Billet                   328       0       0        0       0       0
6.        In the development of these projections, AHMSA is assumed to exit
the reinforcing bar product line, exit the production of billets for sale
and for rerolling at other divisions which are to be closed down, and exit
the structural profiles market.  Pending further studies wire rod is
produced only for transfer to the Division Sur for drawing into wire and
subsequent domestic sale. Similarly merchant bar production is limited to
production of spring material both round and flat for Rasini Rheem, a
producer of finished automotive spring assemblies for domestic and export
markets. AHMSA has the only production facilities at the present time in
Mexico for these products. Finally, production of heavy structural
sections is assumed to rise from approximately 70,000 tonnes in 1986, to
approximately 100,000 tonnes in 1989 and be augmented in that year by an
additional 70,000 tonnes of rail pr:oduction. The figures for non-flat
products are included in order to develop an overall production plan with
the agreement that all will be reviewed further after the strategy study is
complete. It should be clear, however, that no investments are planned at
this stage for facilities whose products might be in question until the
long-term strategy is developed and agreed.
D. Description of the Project
7.        As described earlier, the primary facilities of the plant, from
raw materials to crude sreel production are a mixture of technologies and
methods. The facilities of plant #2 are modern and up to date and have
been reasonably maintaired. They provide a sound technical basis for
expanded operations. The major technical thrust is to (i) debottleneck the
steelmaking and continuous casting facilities in plant #2;
(ii) rehabilitate and iLaprove the quality and productivity of the hot strip
mill in plant #1; (iii) debottleneck the cold rolling mills in plant #1 and
improve the quality of cold rolled products processed in plant #2;
(iv) provide catch-up maintenance throughout plant operations and in the
plantwide utilities and services; (v) expand the prcduct line by using the
heavy structural mill for the production of rail; and (vi) provide for
enhancement of systems and training. The proposed investments include:
(a)  Improvements in steelmakingn through the addition of double
blowing in both BOF1 and BOF 2 and ladle metallurgy in BOF2; and
automatic level control and electromagnetic stirring in the
continuous slab casting machines.



AMNkX 5-2
- 97 -                           Page 4
(b) Hot rolling mill renovations through the construction of new slab
yard facilities and reheating furnaces; the revamping of the hot
strip mill including extensive mechanical and electrical
upgrading along with the introduction of extensive computer
control; and new coiler equipment and coil transport and storage
systems.
(c) Cold rolling mill balancing through the addition of new equipment
at the entry and the exit of No. 3 pickling line; the combination
of two existing cold rolling rills into one unit; and additional
changes in processing lines to process a heavier weight coil from
the revamped hot strip mill.
(d) Maintenance in the production plants aimed at lowering downtime
and in general to bringiag the operating facilities up to a base
performance level and in maintaining other facilities at AHMSA
and its subsidiary plants until the final product strategies are
developed. Rehabilitation of plant-wide utilities and services
including a new electric substation and rearrangement of electric
distribution system, rehabilitation of the industrial water
supply and rehabilitation of existing pollution control equipment
at BOFI and BOF2.
(e) Production of rail which is a standalone project aimed at
utilizing the modern heavy structural mill which currently has
significant excess capacity for the production of rail products
which are not domestically produced.
(f) Technical assistance for development of technically up-to-date
management information systems to provide information for
(i) management decisionmaking and statistical quality control;
(ii) sales order entry and customer service performance;
(-ii) production planning and control; and (iv) accounting and
financial reporting including product cost accounting. Funds are
also included for training throughout the plant with particular
emphasis on worker and supervisor skills improvement. Technical
assistance in project management to assist in implementing the
project is also included (900 man-months).
8.        The overall project has been developed and prepared with the
assistance of an outside engineering and consulting firm. Of the total
program ICB packages for possible Bank financing have been developed for
Hot Strip Mill revamping, Cold Rolling Mill and Process line equipment and
Rail production. Additional Bank funding is also proposed for Maintenance
and Technical Assistance. Other agreed areas of investment are being
undertaken directly by AHKSA.
G. Project Management
19.       Funding is included to assist in the management of the overall
project. Engineering assistance has already been provided to AHMSA by US
Steel engineers in the preparation of the project involving development of
the technical components, scheduling and estimating costs. The cost of



ANNEX 5-2
98 -                           Page 5
this assistance is included for retroactive financing. Based on this work,
terms of reference have beeu prepared for a project management consultant
to assist in implementing the project from procurement to start-up
including assistance in finalizing basic engineering, preparing technical
specifications and final u&ldding documents, bid evaluation and preparation
of contracts. It is planned to maximize the utilization of AHMSA and local
engineering staff in this effort.
20.       Implementation schedules have been developed by AHMSA for each of
the major subprojects with the overall program expected to take three years
to complete. Table 3 provides an overall guide by activity assuming a
start date of July 1987.
Table 3
AHMSA - Imglementation Schedule
1988          1989         1990         1991
Project/Activity      _ _      _-    
ProectActvit     II2  3  4  1  2 13  4  11 21 3  4  1  2  3  4
V    +                      0
Steelmaking                V _  _- -         _ _   ..           O
V          4.                       0
Hot Strip Mill            V _                -  - _ _     -  ..
Cold Rolled Mills e         _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 .
0
Maintenance and Service  __    - _  _     +   _  _  _         O
V       +                      0
Rail Production            - - -                      - -. 
V     +
System and Training   __ __ _ _ . ..
V +    ____   
Project Management       I  I  I  I
Legend:
V Invitation to Bids
+ Contract
0 Operation
- - - Engineering and Procurement
Manufacture/Construction/Shipping
..... .Installation/Commissioning
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



ANNEX 5-2
Appendix 1
- 99 -                         Page 1
MEXlCO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Environmental Control
1.        The nature of operations carried out in an integrated steel plant
leads to the generation of air and water polluting components, most of them
impacting mainly on the local environment. The AHMSA plant which began
operations before the detrimental effects of some pollutants was known has
a mixture of operations and technologies some of which include effective
controls and others with none whatsoever. The piant rehabilitation program
takes into consideration the shut down of some of the technically obsolete
and highly polluting equipment which will greatly reduce existing levels of
air and water emissions. In addition, the program includes rebuild and
expansion of air and in particular water pollution controls to bring the
majority of the operating equipment within existing levels allowed by
Mexican regulations. The Phase II rehabilitation program will aim to
remove the last of the obsolete facilities and very high pollution sources
(e.g., Siemens Martin open aearths).
Air Pollution
2.        Table 1 indicates the particular emissions by department compared
with the current Mexican regulations and notations regarding this source.
Table 1
AHiMSA - Air Pollution by Department
(kg/hr)
Department            Measured      Allowed       Remarks
Pelletizing Plant           46        42.3        Pellet transfer operations
Sinter Plant #1            423       102.1        Transfer of materials
Sinter Plant #2            291       161.9       Transfer of materials
Coke Plants a/               -         -          Coke pushing and screening
Blast Furnaces a/            -         -          Cast floor emissions
BOF #1 and 2 ar              -         -          Secondary emissions
Open hearths             1,757       256.8
Total b/           2,517        563.1
a/  These facilities include modern air pollution control equipment which,
when operating, eliminate all primary emissions. Maintenance
investments are included to improve performance.
b/ Total is calculated on the basis of full operation.
With all facilities operating the total accumulated emissions are
2,517 kg/hr corresponding to a maximum permitted of only 563.1 kg/hr. As
part of this project, it is planned to shut down the sinter plant #1 and
four of the Siemens Martin open hearth furnaces. These changes are



ANNEX 5-2
Appendix 1
- 100 -                        Page 2
expected to drastically reduce the current levels of emission. In addition,
it is planned to expand the duet collection equipment at the pellet plant
and rework a portion of the equipment at sinter plant t2. In total, these
efforts are expected to:
(a) bring the pellet plant into compliance;
(b) reduce sinter plant .1 to 237 kg/hr;
(c) reduce the open hearths to 659 kg/hr; and
(d) bring the total to 996 kg/hr compared to an allowable emission
level of 300.6 kg/hr.
3.        Therefore, instead of exceeding the current allowance by
347%, the plant will be exceeding the allowance by approximately
231%. Further improvement can only come after elimination of the open
hearth furnees and determination of the production levels of the other
facilities which will be addressed after the strategy studies leading to
phase II are completed.
Water Pollution
4.        At normal operating levels plants #1 and #2 operate eight
residual water discharge liner with a total volume of 226 liters per
second. Table 2 lists the principal parameters for measurement of water
quality regarding pollution of soil, subsoil, and water in the area. The
eight discharge lines are associated with the following equipment:
(a) discharge #1 into Ri, Monclova from the water treatment plant,
steel plant and blast furnaces in plant #1;
(b) discharge #4 into Arroyo Frontera from the water treatment plant,
power plant and oxygen plant in plant #2 and steel plant #1;
(c) discharge #5 into a waste well from the pickle lines,
electrolytic cleaning, tin plating, and rolling mills in plant
#1;
(d) discharge #6 into Arroyo Frontera from the blast furnace, coke
ovens, and steel plant #2;
(e) discharge #4 into Arroyo Frontera from the water treatment plant,
blast furnace and mineral stores and eteel plant #2; and
(f) discharge #8 into Arroyo Prontera from the BOP, continuous
caster, cold rolling mills and steel plant #2.
Discharge lines #2 and #3 associated with plant #1 were rerouted through
the new water treatment plant in plant #2 when the facility was
constructed.



ANNEX 5-2
Appendix 1
- 101 -                        Page 3
Table 2
AHMSA - Water Pollution by Discharges
Volume                  Temp.  Solids      Oil
Discharge I         (1/sec)       pH         (eC)   (Ng/1)    (Mg/l)
Maximum Allowed       -        4.5-10.0     35.0      1.0       70
#1              25.0         7.9       40.0     0.1      Trace
#4              20.0         7.4       30.0     0.8      Trace
#5             110.7         2.5       38.0     -        Trace
#6              36.0         9.4       27.5     9.0       2.3
#7              30.9         8.4       23.0     0.5       0.3
#8               3.6         8.4       20.5     0.5       9.0
5.        Discharge #1 temperature of 40C exceeds the water temperature
maximum of 35'C   Discharge #5 pH of 2.5 is more acidic than the 4.5
allowed. Discharge #6 exceeds the solids allowed. Studies are under way
and funds are included in the Phase I project to bring the acid content of
#5 and the solids content of #6 under control. The tempersture of water
from #1 will drop with the phasing out of the Siemens Martin ->pen hearth
furnaces.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
August 1987



ANNEX 5-3
- 102 -                          Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The CMC Component
As The Project
1.        Several structural issues are linked to the future development of
Mexican iron ore production. First, the supply of pellet feed and pellets
in Mexico is split geographically between North and South and although an
overall national balance provides a positive picture in terms of production
and capacities, in 1987 the northern mills will have to transport by rails
over distances of about 1,500 Km from the southern mines, 55% of their
4.7 tpy total demand of ferrous inputs while the southern mills will
consume ore produced in the region and save considerably in freight.
Second, the two northern mines, in particular Hercules suffer from
management and technical problems and have in the past suffered from
insufficient coordination with the steel planls; consequently the
rehabilitation of Hercules is a top priority because of (i) its large
reserves; (ii) its installed capacity, unused due to the poor condition of
its mine equipment (production of pellet feed in 1986 was 0.75 million
tonnes, or 25X of the capacity of the concentrator); and (iii) its northern
location, and consequently, the potential for savings in freight. Third,
La Perla is currently the only mine producing high quality ore suitable as
sinter feed for AHMSA. However, its reserves are small, and it is
therefore necessary to improve the knowledge of reserves at La Perla and to
identify other reliable sources of sinter feed. Finally, Pena Colorada is
an operation with a large resource base, whose owners include all the
integrated steel mills in Mexico. The recent decision by HYLSA to develop
the Cerro Nahuatl mine to replace El Encino, as the latter approaches
depletion, will leave Pena Colorada with excess capacity once Hercules and
Las Truchas are rehabilitated/expanded.
2.        In addition to the above, the supply of ferrous inputs to the
Mexican steel mills faces several temporary urgencies, which because of
their potential economic impact, have become major issues requiring prompt
attention: (i) the Hercules mine is considerably behind in its stripping
and in danger of not being able to feed the concentrator with ore;
furthermore the yields obtained by the Hercules concentrator in processing
some of the ores of the mine, have been less than satisfactory, as the
plant design appears not to suit some of the more frequently occuring ores
of the deposit; and (ii) the investments for the mine and concentrator are
lagging behind the SICARTSA II project; SICARTSA II is therefore likely to
start its operations using imported iron ore and pellets.
3.        About 70% of coking coal requirements of the Mexican steel
industry (the only two steel plants that requiri; coking coal are AHMSA and
SICARTSA I) are met by the production of Sidermex coal mines in the state



ANNEX 5-3
-103 -                           Page 2
of Coahuila, near the northern steel mills; half of the remaining 30% is
supplied by the Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM), a source considered to be
expensive and unreliable, and the other half is imported. Sidermex's
proven reserves suffice for 35 years of production at current levels; the
product is of good quality and mining conditions are relatively easy;
however, productivity levels do not compare favorably with international
standards. The coal content of some of the materials now being rejected as
tailings by the coal washers is considered to be high enough to merit the
analysis of possible further processing.
4.        Based on the above considerations, the proposed project will
consist of:
(a) The execution of an emergency plan to initiate the process of
bringing up to date the stripping of the Hercules mine; the plan
includes:
-    contracting the removal of a minimum of 4 million tonnes,
adjustable to 7 million tonnes of overburden;
-    contracting with the original manufacturers, or their
representatives, the repair and maintenance of the existing
mine and major plant equipment in Hercules;
-    Insuring an adequate level of inventories for the normal
operation of the referred unit.
(b)  Debottlenecking of the existing operations.  In Hercules,
providing the mine with the equipment to finalize the updating of
the mine stripping and then to sustain the required level of
production, and habilitating the concentrator to process lower
grade ores. This will include the purchase and/or installation
of mining equipment such as three 15 m3 shovels, two rotary blast
hole drills, eight 120 tonne trucks, two front end loaders, two
dozers, electrical loops; the analysis and modification of the
concentrator, through the addition of magnetic separators;
support facilities such as completion of truck maintenance shop,
new truck warehouse and steam cleaning, expansion of concentrator
shop and mobile service equipment; urban facilities such as
additional 30 houses, termination of 78 houses and townsite
support infrastructure. In the slurry pipeline, new agitating
tanks. In the coal mines the replacement of the armoured face
conveyor of three mines.
(c)  Safety in the coal mines - rock dusters, upgrading mine
ventilation and communication systems, face lighting and power
centers, conveyor belt slippage switch and emergency stop
systems, fire protection systems.
(d)  Increased coal production to replace the coal purchased from
third parties - general upgrading of the mine equipment of three



ANNEX 5-3
- 104 -                          Page 3
mines; new wash plant in Palau; finalize the opening of the
Mimosa IV mine and install a new longwall system complete;
additional railroad track and mobile equipment related to the new
wash plant and Mimosa IV mine.
(e) Other investments - include the purchase of hardware for data
processing at the mines, Monclova end Monterrey.
(f)  Technical Ass.stance - a progr.m including four components is
proposed; an exploration component that will review the entire
exploration strategy of all of Sidermex enterprises; an
operational component stressing Hercules and the coal mines
seeking to bring their production to designed levels and hence
improving productivities; a project execution component to assist
in the preparation of technical specifications, bid requests and
analysis as well as in the engineering, p:.ocurement and
construction management of the project; and assistance for the
development of adequate management information systems.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



ANNEX 5-4
- 105-                            Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SIDERMEX - Strategic Planning Studies
1.        The SIDERMEX long-term goal is to maintain the installed
production capacity, technologically updated and competitively positioned
in terms of quality, cost and products in order to respond aggressively to
the needs of the domestic market. In support of this goal it is recognized
that steps must be taken to assure the development of a professional
competent work force as well as being able to obtain an adequate return on
invested capital consistent with the norms set by the financial markets and
ensuring a continued flow of capital funds at market rate for investment
and asset renewals in the future.
2.        The objective of the proposed strategic studies is to develop the
technical, economic and financial plans and programs that would permit
SIDERMEX to attain the above goals. The first step is to develop the broad
outline of the long-term strategy and determine the particular studies
necessary to successfully implement the desired programs and plans.
3.        Evaluation of the following major elements are part of the first
step to develop the long-term strategy:
(a) the alternatives from a technical, financial and economic
standpoint for the upgrading and modernization of the AHMSA
facilities beyond the steps being taken under the Phase I
Restructuring Program;
(b)  the balancing of the existing facilities and product lies
consistent with market needs and with the need to maintain
technological competitiveness, including the possible technical
and economic use of the shut-down FUNDIDORA facilities;
(c) the alternatives arising from the technical, economic and
financial capabilities of the SICARTSA I and SICARTSA II
facilities, including the plate mill investment, in the context
of market needs and a corporate wide product mix and plant
specialization approach;
(d) the availability and cost of the ore and energy reserves in the
country to allow the above development to be carried out in an
economic and financially feasible manner, and the alternatives to
further development of the raw material resources in the SIDERMEX
complex;
(e) the human resource development needed to carry out the long-term
programs and to maintain technological competence;



ANNEX 5-4
- 106 -                          Page 2
(f) the organizational and systems needs that will be best suited to
the long-term strategy;
(g) the financial programs and further restructuring steps that are
required to meet the stated objectives of long-term return on
invested capital; and
(h) the social and regional economic impact of the proposed facility
hanges needed to meet the long-term strategic objectives.
4.        The first step work program is being carried out in parallel with
the Market Study that started in early June. It will draw from existing
plant-level technical studies and use other available data and economic and
financial studies that have been carried out as part of the SIDERMEX
Stage 1 Restructuring Program. The SIDERMEX strategic response to the
market needs will be framed in the light of the underlying competitiveness
of the existing facilities and product lines and the potential in
technical, economic and financial terms to restructure and change, modify
and enhance that competitiveness. It will take into account the
constraints and limits imposed by the existing facilities, commitments and
policies and should attempt to develop and strategy including possible
responses to the constraints and limitations. Finally, it will also take
into account the known and possible investment plans of private sector
steal producers.
S.        The following was the proposed time schedule of activities for
the first step program and items (a) through (f) have already been
completed:
(a)  Finalization of the Terms of Reference       -  March 30, 1987
(b)  Letter of Invitation to Consultants          -  March 30, 1987
(c)  Formation of the SIDERMEX Study Team         -  April 1, 1987
(d)  Proposals Received from Consultants          -  April 30, 1987
(e)  Evaluation of Proposals                      -  May 28, 1987
(f)  Finalization of Consultant Contract          -  June 5, 1987
(g)  Start of Study                               -  June 30, 1987
(h)  First Progress Report                        -  August 15, 1987
(i)  Completion of Draft Phase I Report           -  September 9, 1987
(j)  Review and Finalization of Strategy Report  -  September 17, 1987
(k)  Presentation to SIDERMEX                     -  October 1, 1987
6.        British Steel Overseas Services Corp. was selected to carry out
this first step study and has completed the study as scheduled. SIDERMEX
is presently reviewing the strategy options and will have prepared their
Long-term Strategic Plan by March 31, 1988.
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



ANNEX 5-5
- 107 -                         Page 1
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The HYLSA Component
A. Introduction
1.        HYLSA S.A. is the largest private sector producer with two major
operating steel plants. Both are integrate4 facilities based on the
in-house developed HYL direct reduction process for conversion of iron ore
to sponge iron and conventional electric arc furnace for the production of
liquid steel. The Monterrey nolat Products division has a theoretical crude
steel capacity of approximately 1.1 million tonnes per annum and the Bar
and Rod Division located at Puebla has a theoretical crude steel capacity
of 0.6 million tonnes per annum. The Puebla operation also includes a
subsidiary rerolling plant at Apodaca. These non-flat producing facilities
are not included in the present restructuring project which focuses solely
on the Flat Products division.
2.        The HYLSA Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of the private
sector conglomerate Grupo IndustriAl Alfa and was for some time the cash
engine for the group's expansion. At the present time both HYLSA is
negotiating financial restructuring with both domestic and foreign banks
(Alfa recently reached a comprehensive agreement with its creditors). A
prerequisite for including a component for the Flat Products Division is
the signing of a term sheet covering the HYLSA financial restructuring.
B. Objective of the Project
2.        The restructuring project developed by HYLSA and NXK concentrates
on improving the competitive advantage of the Flat Products division
through investments in cost reduction, yield, productivity and quality
improvement. The resulting products are intended to better satisfy the
flat products market in Mexico which is demanding higher qtality, better
customer service and a broader range of specifications. 1 addition the
project is intended to be executed in a timely fashion to 4atintain a
competitive balance between HYLSA in the private sector and AHNSA in the
public sector which is also undergoing extensive modernization.
3.        The new investments are primarily aimed at reducing operating
costs and improving product quality by utilizing the plant's excellent
steelmaking operation in conjunction with new continuous casting facilities
and balancing these with improvements in both the hot and cold rolling
mills. With the exception of the casting machines most of the equipment
included in this project was purchased in the early 1980s for an expansion
project which would have increased capacity to 1.6 mtpa but due to
financial difficulties was never completed. The major criteria as in the
case of the AHMSA investment in similar product lines is that the resultant
products will be internationally competitive with costs that are
financially viable for HYLSA and economically viable for the country.
C. Production Program
4.        The projection of apparent consumption of flat products is
detailed in Annex 3-1. The production plan for RYLSA is shown in Table 1



ANNEX 5-5
- 108 -                          Page 2
and is based on high utilization of existing capacity, as has been
demonstrated over the last ten years, and increases in production as
revamped and new facilities come on line. The remaining apparent
consumption is assumed to be filled by AHKSA or imports.
Table 1
Projection of Production of Flat Products - HYLSA
(thousands of tonnes)
Praduct Category       1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
Plate                    93        92       99       105      103       125
Hot Rolled Sheet        204       202      247       258      253       301
Cold Rolled Sheet       418       408      404       437      422       410
Tin Plate                 5         8       24        24       24        24
Total              720      710       824      824       802       860
HYLSA competes directly with AHMSA and imports mainly in the hot rolled and
cold rolled product groups.  It is HYLSA's plan to shift production in the
coming years to the higher value added cold rolled products. Significant
flexibility is also built itito the program to allow reaction to market
shifts between products and between the categories within the major groups.
D. Description of the Project
5.        The project was originally defined in three stages, however, the
total quality improvement does not take effect until after the addition of
continuous casting which is in stage two and high production levels of cold
rolled products does not occur until stage three. These stages were
originally based on HYLSA's ability to self-finance the total project over
a four year period and not on a technical basis. The project is presented
here in a three year time frame without the artificial constraint of
staging the elements. The investments are well balanced and are intended
to (i) establish the production of high quality slabs from the steelmaking
shop; (ii) rehabilitate and improve the quality and productivity of the hot
strip mill; and (iii) debottleneck the cold rolling mills and improve the
quality and productivity of these facilities. The physical investments
include:
(a) Improvements in steelmaking through the addition of ladle
metallurgy; a new continuous casting machine; and a slab cooling,
reconditioning and stocking yard.
(b) Hot rolling mill renovation through the additional of new slab
storage and handling facilities and two new reheat furnaces;
revamping the existing hot strip mill including changes in the
roughing stands, finishing mill and strip cool:ng system; and the
addition of a new coiler, skin pass mill and roll shop.
(c) Cold rolling mill expansion through the addition of a new pickle
line, improvements to existing mills, new automation and controls



ANNEX 5-5
- 109 -                          Page 3
and coil handling improvements throughout the operation; and
installation of a new tandem mill and a new temper mill.
In addition, project management consultant services of about 250 man-months
are included to assist HYLSA in carrying out detailed engineering and
project supervision.
E. Project Management
6.        Funding is included to assist in the management of the overall
project. Engineering assistance has already been provided by Nippon Kokan
(NKK) in the preparation of the project including development of technical
components, scheduling and estimated costs. Terms of reference have been
prepared for a project management consultant to assist in implementing the
project from preparation of detailed specifications and bid documents to
start-up of equipment. The implementation program for the overall project
is shown in Table 2 below. HYLSA has given internal responsibility for the
project to the technical director of the Flat Products Division.
Table 2
HYLSA - Implementation Schedule
1988        1989         1990         1991
Project/Activity.__________
Project/Activt         1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4
Steelmaking               _+
V           +                    0
Hot Strip Mill                        __ __ V _              _ __ _... .O
V           4.                   0
Cold Rolled Mills                        __ _.
Pro4ect Management
Legend:
V   Invitation to Bids
+   Contract
0   Operation
---  Engineering and Procurement
Manufacture/Construction/Shipping
...  Installation/Commissioning
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1986



- 110-                                 ANNE 6-1
MEI - sL  uR                        W
Siuary Pmoject Cost - AHMSA Project Chimernt - Part B.l
z       %
Ib Mlitm             Us$ muLWm         Foreign   Base
Iccal Fore:gp  Total   loca Forel    otal  Content   Cost
Equipment & *Mres            54.5  212.4  266.9    44.1  172.0  216.1    79.6    75.5
Civil Works/Erectimx         38.0   11.5   49.5    30.8    9.3   40.1    23.2    14.0
Fog/Project Iaegennt          6.0   11.2   17.2       4.9    9.1   14.0    65.2       4.9
TA/trainIng                 _6.9   12.8   19.7        5.5   10.4   15.9    65.2       5.6
PrM  Cost (Mxdi. Ixs
& Dities)                 105*4  247.9  353.3    85.3  200.8  286.1    70.2   100.0
Physical                     11.9   17.5   29.4       9.6   14.2   23.8    59.5       8.3
Price CkntinsFrcies          19*7   17.3   37.0    16.0   14.0   30.0    46.7    10.5
Installed Q6t (excl.
Taes & Duties)            137.0  282.7  419e7   110.9  229.0  339.9    67.4   118.8
Taixes & Duties              61.9    0.0   61.9    50.1    0.0   50.1         0.0    17.5
Installed Cost              198.9  282.7  481.6   161.0  229.0  390.0    58.7   136.3
Working Capital              66.9   16.7   83.6    54.2   13.5   67.7    19.9    23.7
Project Cost                265.8  299.4  565.2   215.2  242.5  457.7    53.0   160.0
bnterest Ibring Coktnsrctio    2.7   24.5   27.2      2.2   19.8   22.0    90.0       7.7
Total Financing
Needs                268.5  323.9  592.4   217.4  262.3  479.7    54.9   167.7
F    4nncn Pla
Proposed Benk loan          0.0  209.9  209.9       0.0  170.0  170.0   100.0    59.4
Short-tenn Debt            39.5    0.0   39.5    32.0    0.0   32.0         0.0    11.2
Internal Cash Generation   229.0  141.5  370.5   185.4   92.3  277.7    33.2    97.1
Country Diertment II
Industry, Trade, Finane Seor qCei    Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional OEfic
Janay 1988



- 111 -                               A        6-2
If ) - b8E WT            1Jmp
S r Poect COt - OC Project 22MqR!LX - Part B.2
2       X
btUim                 US$ t L UOn     F1vep    us
local F       TeW Total   local    e    Total  cont    cost
Bqul4ant & *ares             9.2  100.1  109.3      7.5   81.0   88.5    91.A    74.5
Civil WoIk/Erectlon         31.9    0.0   31.9    25.8    0.0   25.8       0.0    21.8
fo/Project hnage et          0.0    2.0    2.0      0.0    1.6    1.6   100.0      1.3
TA/TrainIng                  0.4    3.0    3.4      0.4    2.4   2M.    87.5       2.3
Base Cost (ext . Tas
& Duties)                 41.5  105.1  146.6    33.7   85.0  1187    71.7   100.0
l2ysical O,ntIigerci         7.7   10.0   17.7      6.2    8.1   14.3    56.5    121
Price Ctlzingesces           8.5    7.3   15.8      6.9    5.9   12.8    46.1    10.8
Installed Cost (eMdl.
Taxes & Duties)           57.7  122.4  180.1    46.8   99.0  145.8    67.9   122.8
Taxes & Duties              36.0    0.0   36.0    29.2    0.0   29.2       0.0    24.6
InstaUled Cost              93.7  122.4  216.1    76.0   99.0  175.0    56.6   147.4
working Capital              1.7    1.6    3.3      1.4    1.3    2.7    48.1      2.3
Project Cost                95.4  124.0  219.4    77.4  100.3  177.7    56.4   149.7
Interest DUwig Co tructiom   0.8    7.4    8.2      0.7    6.0    6.7    9D.0      5.6
Total Financing
Needs                 96.2  131.4  227.6    78.1  106.3  184.4    57.6   155.3
Proposed lank Loan         0.0   61.8   61.8      0.0   50.0   50.0   100.0    42.1
Sx .-term Debt             0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Internal Cash Ganeratimn    96.2   69.6  165.8    78.1   56.3  134.4    41.9   112.9
Country Dqlrtnwit I1
Industry, Trade, Fimaic. Sector Operamtim Division
Latin Anwica and the Ckribbea Regional Offie
Jaway 1988



- 112 -                              ANNEK 6-3
MMOD - STEL S=C1U    ICSIURU   PRIECT
amar Project Cost -  M  Project CoMment - Part C
%X
M$ billion           US$ million       Forelgn   Base
local !2reig  Total   Local ForeLgn Total  Cbntant   Cost
Equlpment & Spares          44.4   93.3  137.7    36.0   75.5  111.5    67.7    67.8
Civil Works/Erection        42.9    0.3   43.2    34.8    0.3   35.1      0.8    21.3
&bgfProject Imbnagaunt      13.8    8.4   22.2    11.2    6.8   18.0    37.8    10.9
TA/Train1mg                  0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Base Cost (excl. bxs
& Duties)                101.1  102.0  203.1    82.0   82.6  164.6    50.2   100.0
RPbyscal CbrtilQFIlie       11.5   16.3   27.8     9.3   13.2   22.5    58.7    13.7
PricOe rt                   19.0   12.5   31.5    15.4   10.1   25.5    39.6    15.5
Tlstalled Cbst (endl.
Taxes & DtAles)          131.8  130.8  262.6   106.7  105.9  212.6    49.8   129.2
Taxes & Duties              30.6    0.0   30.6    24.8    0.0   24.8      0.0    15.0
Installed Cost             162.4  130.8  293.2   131.5  105.9  237.4    44.6   144.2
Wbrking Capital             29.8    7.4   37.2    24.1    6.0   30.1    19.9    18.3
Project Cost               192.2  138.2  330.4   155.6  111.9  267.5    41.8   162.5
Interest During Construction   1.4   12.1   13.5    1.1    9.8   10.9    89.9     6.6
Total Financing
Needs                193.5  150.3  343.8   156.7  121.7  278.4    43.7   169.1
nn!gf Pla
Proposed Bank loan         0.0   92.6   92.6      0.0   75.0   75.0   100.0    45.6
Short-temn Debt           42.0    0.0   42.0    32.0    0.0   32.0      0.0    19.4
Ioternal Cash CGeKration   153.9   77.7  231.6   124.7   46.7  171.4    27.2   104.1
Cosntry Dapartamt II
Inlustry, Mrade, Fnace Sector Oeations Divisio
Latin Amirlca and the Caribbean Pegional Office
J    198B



- 113 -                               AMR 6-4
MCCO - SML MMse    MUM PWU1
ummay Total Project Cost - Parts B and C
X%
Mbilion               US$ milln         o       :rep    - i
local Fre    Tbtal   local FL         Total  Cbrtent Cost
Equipimn. & Spares          108.2  405.7   513.9    87.6  328.5  416. b     79    73
Civil Works/Erection        112.9   11.9   124.7    91.4    9.6  101.0    10    18
Eng/Project bnagement        19.9   21.6    41.5    16.1   i7.5   33.6    52       6
TVtragN                       7.3   15.8    23.1     5.9   12.8   18.7    68       3
Ba4e Cost (emr. Taxes
& Thties)                 248.2  455.0   703.2   201.C  368.4  569.4    65   100
Ptysical Ctendes             31.0   43.8    74.8    25.1   35.5   60.6    59    11
47.3   37.1    84.4    38.3   30.0   68.3    44    12
Installed Cost (exdc.
Txes & Duties)            326.5  535.9   862.4   264.4  433.9  698.3    62   123
Taxs & Dities               128.6    0.0   128.6   104.1    0.0  104.1       0    18
Installed Cost              455.1  535.9   991.0   368.5  433.9  802.4    54   141
Woking Capital               98.4   25.7   124.1    79.7   20.8  100.5    21    18
Project Cost                553.5  561.6 1,115.1   448.2  454.7  902.9    50   159
Interest wt>ing Constructio   4.9   44.0    48.9     4.0   35.6   39.6    90       7
Tobtal Pinancing Xeeds    558.5  605.5 1,164.0   452.2  490.3  942.5    52   166
SI1M1 Studies Part B.3
Tehbntcal Assistance        3.1    6.2     9.3      2.5    5.0    7.5    67       1
Total Parts B & C      561.6  611.7 1,173.3   454.7  495.3  950.0    52   167
_        _      m                       m _  _m 
Proposed Bank Loan          0.0  370.5   370.5     0.0  300.0  300.0    100    53
Short-tena  Debt           79.0    0.0    79.0    64.0    0.0   64.0       0    11
Ioternal Cash Generation    482.5  241.2   723.8   390.7  195.3  586.0    33   103
Coxmtry Departmt nII
indtatryt bae, Finane Sectorpeatis Division
latin Amrica and the Cwribbean Regional Office
Janay 1988



- 114 -                                  ANNEX 6-5
MEXICO - STEEL SECTOR RtESTRUCTURING PROJECT
lstimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
IBRD FY &                  U$ million                       Percent
tu^arter Endig         In Quarter    Cumulative       In Quarter    Cumulative
March 31, 1988            26.3            26.3            6.6            6.6
June 30, 1988             31.8            58.1            8.0           14.5
Sept. 30, 1988            19.1            77.2            4.8           19.3
Dec. 31, 1988             21.3            98.5            5.3           24.6
March 31, 1989            30.1           128.6            7.5           32.2
June 30, 1989             38.3           166.9            9.6           41.7
Sept. 30, 1989            36.0           202.9            9.0           50.7
Dec. 31, 1989             21.9           224.8            5.5           56.2
March 31, 1990            24.6           249.4            6.2           62.4
June 30, i990             27.9           277.3            7.0           69.3
Sept. 30, 1990            21.1           298*4            5*3           74.6
Dec. 31, 1990             21.6           320.0            5.4           80.0
March 31, 1991            21.0           341.0            5.2           85.3
June 30, 1991             23.1           364.1            5.8           91.1
Sept. 30, 1991            11.4           375.5            2.9           93.9
Dec. 31, 1991              7.0           382.5            1.7           95.7
March 31, 1992             3.7           386.2            0.9           96.6
June 30, 1992              4.3           390.5            1.1           97.7
Sept. 30, 1992             2.9           393.4            0.7           98.4
Dec. 31, 1992              2.5           395.9            0.6           99.0
March 31, 1993             2.0           397.9            0.5           99.5
June 30, 1993              2.1           400.0            0.5          100.0
Country Department II
Industry, Trade, Finance Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
January 1988



WarS



NOTES



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20418
K  UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA                                                                 M  E X I C O
STEEL MILLS AND MAJOR MARKETS
8AJA      .,.I
AiLFORNLA                    Ngl
X RA/A, * I    <e                    ~Ij                        N.
r~~~~ ~~~ |Vl                                                   ,      f1I                                                                                                                           1''  
. 0.N         A R I
.    ).A .l ;if>                     :S  H                             t             f         Asl
rI  STEEL MILLS
o   STEEL MARKETS
;   NATIONAL CAPITAL
AAb                                                                                 0''                                                                                         STATR CAPITALS
IPQLN/A          *%'4.         .j    vI-t,,                                                                                                                      ;       ,.    ,
CAL                             -.                                                                                                            0   PRINIPA !.CI   AND .  TOWNS
~~~SUR  ~~~~~~~~~~'  \). ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Parrot  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~        - DIVIDED HIGHWAYS
-SEL.ECTED MAIN ROAD$
A                                                      -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROALROADS
- 4 PRINCIPAL ARPORTS
*  -  STATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2lOEtR P0. V1.0 10,0 D4, 0f~\T   __~ 
"I    )~ ~~~~~~~Ic
-                       \               GUATEMAL~~~~~~UATA    +f
_A _0_dr_*tfzabX/ -
51CARTSA                                                                     ASA-CO   I                                            1
OCOOW  -   ~~~~~~~~~~. ~~BELIZE
RILOHETER 0     MC      2CR    ICR    400      no 
MILES 0          too         100          30R                                                                                               4
P.t...                                                    GUATEMALA
Tapochil                 ~~HONDURAS
ilo,                                 iqw                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1987






IBRD 20419
UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA                                                                   M  E X I C O
' 09< ->tb                                                               .IRON ORE MINES, COAL MINES AND NATURAL GAS FIELDS
"AJA                                                             C lr ,
\CAIIPORNIANgt4                                                     Ju
N.AtzOewa  ~4-                                                                                                                                          3 5.W  >  tx, .  S  5 Z
c  AI       U  A  H h A
Old        IA |          %         l                         ,t               ,                                                                      x   IRON ORE MINES
91  PELLETIZING PLANTS NOT AT STM MLLS
L. /.                                                                                                    Q    C \  i  COAL AINES
PEAL                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A NATURAL GAS FIELDS
BAJA                               ';                                                    A c                                                                                        i COAN.'XLA COAL REGION
CAII I                                                                             UL                                                                                        0    NATEO  CAPITAIL$
R    MGANOPAL CMES OR TOWNS
DIVDED HIGHWAYS
SELECTED MAIN ROADS
To                                                                           P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AILROAGS
M RNCIPAL AIRPORT
D U R A N                                                                         ------ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATS BOUNDARIES
- \ DII I.'A                                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAriES
Pat !. E                                Do.,r                                                                                                                                          .JUNEIACs CAS /
S. t-Mttli.                 *.*        '                SAN  ulOTS'
Mw- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
PE~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                APCI
EILGUEIRBS RI  IRS  2U  3W  *o@  soc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~USTRU
RI  ISO                                                                                                                                                            GUA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EMALA~~~~GE
Taiii                     ~~~HONDURAS
1W                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1987



