-Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16656-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
STEEL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2916-ME)
May 29, 1997
Mexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Peso (Mex$)
US$ 1.00 = Mex$ 7.85
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (m3)    = 1.308 cubic yards
1 metric ton (t) = 1,000 kdlograms or 2,204.6 pounds
1 kilometer (km)   = 0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHMSA        - Altos Hornos de Mexico S.A.(state owned)
CANACERO - Camara National de la Industria del Hierro y del Acero (Iron and Steel
Chamber of Commerce)
CMC          - Carbon y Minerales Coahuila S.A.(raw materials division of SIDERMEX)
EBIT         - Earnings Before Interest Expense and Taxes
FMSA         - Fundidora Monterrey S.A.(state owned)
GAN          - Grupo Acecero del Norte
GOM          - Government of Mexico
HYLSA        - Private sector steel company
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
ICR          - Implementation Completion Report
mt           - million tons
mtpy         - million tons per year
NAFIN        - Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
PAT          - Profit After Tax
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
SECOFI      - Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (Commerce Ministry)
SEDUE        - Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (Ministry of Environment
and Urban Development)
SEMIP       - Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (Ministry of Energy,
Mines and Parastatal Industry)
SHCP         - Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico (Finance Ministry)
SICARTSA   - Siderurgica L'azaro Cardenas Las Truchas S.A.(state owned)
SIDERMEX  - State owned steel industry holding company
SOE         - State Owned Enterprise
SPP          - Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto (Ministry of Budget and
Programming)
tpy          - tons per year
Vice President           S. Javed Burki
Director                 Olivier Lafourcade
Division Chief/Manager   Carl Dahlman
Staff Member             Daniel Crisafulli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- in -
CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................................          iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                     . .             1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ..1
B. ACHIEVEMFNT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT   ..7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY..                                             8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                          ..8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                 9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME        ..9
H. FUTURE OPERATION                . . .
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                                  9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................... 12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS      .......................................................... 12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .............. ............................................. 12
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL    ... 13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..                 13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION     . . .                13
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .......... ............................... 13
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS             ...................................... 14
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING            .................................... 14
TABLE 9: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ........15...............................  1 5
TABLE 9A: FINANCIAL COSTS AND BENEFITS- UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS ....................  16
TABLE 9B: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS- UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS ....................  16
TABLE 10: STATuS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .    .........................................................     18
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS      ... 20
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .  .........................................................  20
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...                                 21
Annex 1: ICR Mission Aide Memoire .     .......................................................  21
Annex 2: Operation Plan for the AHMSA Steel Plant ........................................................ 24
Annex 3: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR   .  ....................................................... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



-iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXCO
STEEL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2916-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mexico Steel
Restructuring Project, for which Loan 2916-ME in the amount of $400 million was
approved on March 15, 1988, and made effective on March 16, 1988.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, following three one-year extensions
to the original loan closing date of December 31, 1993. Final disbursement took place in
December 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Edmund L. Mangan, Technical Advisor, and Daniel
Crisafulli, Task Manager, Sector Leadership Group, Latin America and the Caribbean
Region, and reviewed by Carl Dahlman, Sector Leader of Finance and Private Sector
Development, Mexico Country Department, Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
The Borrower provided inputs to the ICR that are included as Annexes.
A Case Study on this Project was prepared for EDI in conjunction with the Bank
supervision mission undertaken in June 1995. Preparation of this report was begun during
the Bank's ICR mission in December 1996 and includes information collected for the Case
Study and material in the project file. The Government, Borrower and Beneficiaries
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by exchanging views on all parts and phases of
the Project including policy aspects, preparation, procurement, implementation experience
and related issues and by preparing its own contribution to this ICR.






MEXICO
STEEL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2916-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Mexican steel industry, second largest in Latin America and nineteenth in the
world, has undergone a profound transformation since 1985 when interventionist policies
were identified as a main cause of the industry's low productivity, poor quality and limited
contribution to the economy. In response to a GOM request for financial and technical
assistance from the Bank, a sector study was carried out in 1986, which, in cooperation
with the enterprises in the steel sector, recommended a series of economic policy reforms,
coupled with a substantial restructuring program for the sector. The resulting Steel Sector
Restructuring Project was a hybrid adjustment and investment loan developed jointly by the
Bank, the Government and the major public and private sector firms in the subsector
designed to implement the strategy proposed in the sector study.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) enhance competitiveness in the steel sector
through decontrol of domestic steel prices and continued implementation of trade
liberalization measures; (b) restructure the state owned steel holding company SIDERMEX
operations financially, organizationally, and administratively; (c) rehabilitate the AHMSA
steel production facilities and the CMC mining operations; and (d) modernize the private
sector steel producer HYLSA.
3.    The loan consisted of three main parts: (1) a US$100 million quick disbursing
component tied to implementation of agreed policy reforms, which financed the additional
steel imports that were expected during the adjustment period following the implementation
of reforms; (2) US$220 million support for restructuring two SIDERMEX companies,
AHIMSA and its mining affiliate CMC, with US$5 million for SIDERMEX Holding
Company technical assistance and strategic planning studies; and (3) US$75 million support
for rehabilitation and modernization of the private firm HYLSA.
4.    The loan provided for significant technical assistance to Government policymakers
in developing overall sectoral strategy and to the firms directly participating under the
project to assist in the design and implementation of individual firm strategies and projects.
Project management assistance was provided to assist with the investment portions of the
loan. An important goal of the technical assistance was to improve environmental
performance throughout the sector.



- vi -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project as implemented met or exceeded all of its primary development
objectives. The steel industry now appears to be thriving, converted from a set of
inefficient, loss-making producers selling low-quality steel in a captive domestic market to a
profitable and growing industry that uses modem technology to compete internationally. In
addition, the industry's competitiveness strongly supports the success of export-oriented
downstream industries, serving as an indicator of project sustainability.
6.    During implementation, the delays occured due to lags in policy reform and
budgetary allocations. However, the reform program was carried out fully in the spirit of
the objectives of the project, and the second tranche of Part A of the Loan, which had been
delayed from June 1988, was released in January 1990. In the same year, the Government
accepted the Bank's recommendations to privatize steel sector operations, which was not
included in the original scope of the project, and began discussions with the Bank on the
proposed the privatization of the state owned steel enterprises. The November 1991
SIDERMEX privatization represented the first major industrial sector and "strategic
industry" to be privatized in Mexico and the first major Latin American steel industry to be
privatized.
7.    All of the physical objectives of the project have been surpassed, although costs
were higher as a result, primarily, of project delays totaling about three years. Part B was
completed a cost of US$825 million, compared with US$644 million originally estimated
(Part II, Table 8A). Financing arrangements were essentially as planned (Part II, Table 8B),
with own cash generation of the firms covering the major part of the financing not covered
by the Bank loan. The project was completed in January 1995 which compares with a
planned completion date of January 1992. The major delays occurred early in the project
and were related to: incompatibility of Bank procurement arrangements for complex
rehabilitation projects; bureaucratic difficulties faced by the Government in implementing
agreed actions in restructuring the SOEs, particularly in the allocation and release of funds;
and the actual process of privatization which in itself delayed the project for eighteen
months.
8.    The technical assistance provided in all phases of the project was highly successful.
Strategy and market studies provided the basis for sectoral development and for eventual
privatization. At the firm level, strategic studies were undertaken for each of the
SIDERMEX subsidiaries. Project management assistance was provided to AHMSA and
CMC, including individual training at the plant and overseas, forming part of the hands-on
implementation assistance provided throughout the life of the project. Grant funds were
obtained from the United States Government to conduct a thorough environmental
assessment of the AHIMSA steel plant. The study identified pollution problems and their
proposed solutions prior to privatization, allowing GOM and the new owners to quickly
agree and implement an environmental action plan. AHMSA reports that it is now in
compliance with Mexican environmental regulations.



- vii -
9.    The HYLSA component, (Part C) US$75 million, was canceled in 1990, at the
request of the firm, when they decided to bid for major SIDERMEX facilities rather than
continue with the original project. Although unsuccessful in their bid attempt, HYLSA
modernized and expanded the existing facilities, building on and surpassing the original
objectives of the Bank project. Although HYLSA did not use Bank funds, they benefited
from sectoral reforms and competition that had developed in the marketplace. Their project
was completed successfully in 1995, making HYLSA a world class producer of flat
products.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   All the objectives have been met or exceeded and the steel industry in Mexico is
satisfying domestic and export market requirements with high quality steel products at
competitive costs. The steel sector is totally privatized and the firms are operating
profitably. The policy and institutional objectives have been met or exceeded, and the
financial and economic benefits are positive and acceptable. The project outcome is rated
as highly satisfactory.
11.   This project is an example of restructuring prior to privatization, and the strongly
positive results that can be attained when the Bank commits to a flexible long-term
partnership with government and the private sector to carry out a complex and
comprehensive restructuring program. The project began with sector work, undertaken by
Bank staff, which allowed all of the major steel producing and consuming enterprises to
contribute to a strategic and policy framework for the sector as a whole. The loan, based
on this framework, was the vehicle for the Bank to provide political and financial support,
as well as technical and economic advice, from knowledgeable Bank staff and
internationally-recognized advisors. Because of this total commitment, the Bank had an
influence at all three levels of the partnership (Government, sector, and firm). To be
effective, Bank staff had to be flexible and respected, seen as neutral, competent, third party
advisors whose only objective was to see that the sector and its enterprises were
successfully transformed.
12.   The success of the sectoral restructuring process facilitated the privatization of the
SIDERMEX Companies at a date much earlier than originally envisioned. The steel sector
was chosen for privatization prior to any other industrial subsector, in part, because the
restructuring of SIDERMEX and the rehabilitation of AHMSA and CMC had proceeded
with a high degree of success. From the beginning, the Bank presence served to facilitate a
restructuring process with the eventual goal of privatization - the promise of possible
financial support allowed the Bank to use conditionality to incentivize sectoral reform and
support the agreed restructuring process. The hybrid form of the loan, supported by well
written legal covenants, allowed disbursement of investment funds to be linked to policy
dialogue and policy based funds to be linked to agreements on enterprise strategy. These
linkages allowed the Bank to apply pressure to keep the process moving and provided a
great deal of flexibility in dealing with change.



- viii -
13.   These successes camne as a result of significant institutional commitment in terms of
skills, budgetary resources and financial and political capital. Critically, extensive and costly
sector work was undertaken prior to project preparation. Several lessons from this project
could be applied to ongoing work in other countries. In particular, the Bank may wish to
reexamine the use of hybrid loans to facilitate the implementation of difficult policy
decisions that could be linked to restructuring and privatization. In the Mexico case, the
hybrid loan structure developed on the basis of sector work andpartnership provided the
leverage at all three levels (Government, sector, and firm) that gave the Bank a strong role
in promoting economic change.
14.   The Mexican steel sector, downstream steel consumers, and the economy overall
have benefited from privatization. However, this step was not on the explicit agenda when
the project and loan were developed. The restructuring program supported by the Bank
loan prepared both the government and the enterprises for that step when the opportunity
presented itself The Government decision to privatize was supported and influenced by the
Bank presence and facilitated by the advances brought about by the project. Bank presence
and support provided the catalyst to accelerate the transition of the Mexican steel sector
and could potentially play an analogous role today in economies heavily dependent on
industrial sector performance.
15.   The successful restructuring and privatization of the Mexico steel sector was
accomplished on a centralized, rather than decentralized (firm-by-firm) basis. In many
economies, the centralized approach may still have merit, along with the inclusion of both
public and private sector firms in Bank investment loans. Government implemented or
centralized actions as part of an overall restructuring program may be the only means to
carry out policy initiatives to improve the viability of enterprises and help prepare for
privatization. Support for centralized actions coupled with impartialfinancial support
provided the necessary encouragement for the country to undertake this exceptionally
thorough reform program.
16.   In the privatization process, GOM sold the SIDERMEX companies to "strategic
investors" rather than dispersing ownership more widely to managers, workers, and the
population in general. In this case, the investors were primarily Mexican groups that could
afford to raise the necessary funds to participate in the bid process. Possible oligopolistic
practices have been avoided through the simultaneous trade liberalization measures
undertaken. The results appear financially and economically successful, but the project did
not have specific poverty reduction and social objectives. This lack of coverage, in spite of
the labor reductions envisioned in the restructuring program, may have been an oversight at
the time of project preparation. Further study would be warranted to assess the impact of
the labor reductions (and the accompanying lump sum separation pay) on poverty reduction
and other social objectives, particularly in the isolated areas of Monclova and Lazaro
Cardenas, Mexico.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
STEEL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2916-ME)
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
1.    The Mexican steel industry, second largest in Latin America and nineteenth in the
world, has undergone a profound transformation since 1985, when a Bank Public Sector
Investment Review identified govemment policies as a main cause of the industry's low
productivity, poor quality, and limited contribution to the economy. In response to a GOM
request for financial and technical assistance from the Bank, a series of economic policy
reforms, as well as a very substantial restructuring program supported by a Bank loan, were
jointly developed and implemented. Today, the steel industry appears to be thriving, converted
from a set of inefficient, loss-making producers selling low-quality steel in a captive domestic
market to a profitable and growing industry that uses modem technology to compete
intemationally. The industry's competitiveness strongly supports the success of export-
oriented downstream industries.
A. Project Objectives and Description
2.    During the interval 1985-1995, the World Bank played a critical role in encouraging
and facilitating the transformation of the steel industry in Mexico. After the initial 1985 Bank
investment review, GOM requested assistance in the development of a strategic framework for
the sector. As an indication of Government seriousness in dealing with the main problems, in
May 1996, GOM closed the second largest state owned steel plant (FMSA) putting 12,000
employees out of work. The Bank, in response, began the requested strategic analysis in June
1996. The Steel Sector Strategy Review, financed by the Bank, was carried out in cooperation
with all of the major steel producers and consumers and resulted in detailed recommendations
to restructure the steel sector and accelerate economic policy reforms. In March 1988, the
dialogue between GOM and the Bank culminated in the approval of a US$1,050 million Steel
Sector Restructuring Project, financed in part by a US$400 million World Bank loan. This was
a "hybrid" loan, that provided both adjustment assistance to the Govemment and project
financing to individual steel firms in both the private and public sectors. To facilitate
movement of the sector toward greater competitiveness and responsiveness to market needs,
the loan had the following of key objectives:
(1)   assist GOM to enhance competitiveness in the sector by implementing a major
policy reform package including; continued liberalization of trade; complete elimination of
price controls; and elaboration of a national steel sector policy;



-2 -
(2)   assist GOM and the state owned steel holding company SIDERMEX in
restructuring its operations financially, organizationally, and administratively and assist
SIDERMEX and the industry in developing and implementing its long term strategies;
(3)   rehabilitate SIDERMEX's AHMSA flat product steel production facilities and
CMC mining operations to enhance product quality and reduce costs; eliminate bottlenecks to
achieve better utilization of existing capacity; improve environmental, technical, financial and
managerial controls and information systems; train operations and maintenance staff; and
develop human resources;
(4)   modemize the private sector HYLSA flat product production facilities to
improve quality and cost and maintain competitiveness in the sector.
3.    The loan consisted of three main parts: (1) US$100 million, quick disbursing
component tied to implementation of agreed policy reforms, estimated to cover the foreign
exchange costs of additional steel imports expected during the adjustment period; (2) US$220
million support for restructuring two SIDERMEX companies, AHMSA and its mining affiliate
CMC, and US$5 million for the SIDERMEX Holding Company for technical assistance and
strategic planning studies; and (3) US$75 million support for modernization of the private firm
HYLSA, in order to maintain its competitive position with the public sector firm AHMSA.
The loan provided technical assistance to the sector as a whole, and to the firms included in the
loan, to assist in detailing the overall strategy for the sector and the implementation of
individual firm strategies and projects. This included a major goal to improve environmental
performance throughout the sector.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
4.    Sector Policy Improvements. During implementation, the sectoral reforms that had
been agreed at loan negotiations were at times consistent with GOM policy, and therefore
implemented quickly, and at other times troublesome to the government, with resulting delays.
However all of the agreed policy changes were made in the first two years of the loan. In late
1990, in consultation with the Bank, GOM proposed to go further than originally envisioned
and privatize the state owned SIDERMEX companies. At GOM request, Bank staff advised
SHCP and assisted its advisors during the privatization process, and the Bank agreed to extend
the existing investment part of the loan to the private sector after privatization. Details on
specific policy reforms follow.
5.    Trade Liberalization. The process of opening the Mexican economy to international
competition started in 1986, when Mexico joined the GATT. During project preparation and
as a condition for Board Presentation of this loan, the Bank insisted on further trade
liberalization and specific reductions in steel import tariffs. Between 1986, when the sector
strategy was developed, and the end of 1987, steel import tariffs fell from about 40% to a range
from 0% to 15%, and Quantitative Restrictions and official reference prices were completely
phased out. There has been no subsequent tightening of trade restrictions and today tariffs on
most steel products range from 0% to about 8%.



-3 -
6.    Price Liberalization. The process of freeing steel prices proved to be longer and more
complicated than that of trade liberalization. The major concem was the possibility of
inflationary effects and conflicts with the Econornic Solidarity Pact (ESP) of December 1987.
In the context of economic uncertainty, accelerating inflation, and budget deficits, ESP
contained tight fiscal and monetary policies; price, wage and exchange rate controls across
many sectors of the economy; and rapid trade liberalization. The intent of ESP was to reduce
inflation and restore confidence in macroeconomic policy, while avoiding a recession. These
factors delayed complete price decontrol until September, 1990.
7.    Legal Reform. In May 1989, GOM modified the Foreign Investment Law to enlarge
the number of sectors open to foreign ownership and relaxed regulations on foreign direct
investment. In the privatization of the SIDERMEX companies, 100% foreign ownership was
allowed.
8.    Restructuring of SIDERMEX. The hybrid nature of the loan allowed the Bank to
deal at the government, sectoral and firm levels. The Bank was able to provide support and to
apply pressure to ensure that the difficult reform and restructuring measures were carried out.
One example was Bank support of the SIDERMEX agreement with GOM, based on the 1986
Strategy Study, which laid out the detailed restructuring program for the steel SOEs. Under
this agreement, the role of SIDERMEX Holding Company was narrowed to include only
strategic management and general supervisory functions. Holding Company employment was
reduced and affiliated companies were reorganized under five independent entities: AHMSA;
SICARTSA; a raw materials division, Carbon y Minerales Coahuila SA (CMC); other
technical operations; and international marketing and non-technical units. Non-core and
unrelated companies were merged, sold, or liquidated, reducing the number of companies
from 90 to 20.
9.    The strategic business units in the core steel and mining activities became independent
profit centers and the remaining productive facilities were rationalized into a more logical
technological and product base. Each strategic business unit was headed by a professional
manager, located on-site rather than in Mexico City, with full operating autonomy. Balance
sheets were restructured, with SIDERMEX absorbing the pre-existing debt, to free the new
managers from the burden of previous bad decisions and enable them to focus on the future.
10.   After the closure of FMSA in 1985, SIDERMEX continuously reduced employment
levels, from about 36,000 in 1986 to about 18,000 in 1991, a reduction of 50% prior to
privatization. Staffing cuts slowed following privatization, with total employment at about
15,000 in 1995. The financial cost of labor reduction, estimated at US$10,000 equivalent per
employee terminated, was borne by SIDERMEX and later by the private sector. Bank funds
were not allocated to support labor reductions or the establishment of social safety net
provisions. During restructuring, the Government also supported the negotiation of new labor
contracts allowing management increased flexibility via new work rules, expanded
outsourcing, and greater management independence in operational decisions. Labor reduction
and renegotiation of contracts were critical prerequisites for successful privatization and
successful operation of the enterprises.



-4 -
11.   Steel Sector Reform. Bank dialogue with the Government regarding Steel Sector
Reform, which was continual and effective throughout the restructuring period, was deepened
following the entry of the Salinas administration in late 1988. At this time, the dialogue
expanded to include the potential privatization of AHMSA and CMC. After discussions with
the Bank, the Government announced, in March 1990, the decision to privatize all of
SIDERMEX. The privatization was executed in a highly professional manner under direct
control of the Finance Ministry (SHCP). Largely independent from the sectoral ministry
(SEMIP), SIDERMEX, and the steel SOEs, SHCP formed a team which sought technical and
financial advice from international sources including key officials involved in the British Steel
privatization. Throughout the process, Bank staff were part of the team, acting as advisor and
providing assistance to SHCP and the companies undergoing privatization.
12.   To make the companies attractive to potential bidders, GOM directly assumed
US$1,700 million of SICARTSA II and US$600 million of AHMSA foreign debt. With the
help of advisors, SHCP clarified property rights, renegotiated labor contracts, environmental
regulations, and energy supply contracts as a prerequisite to attracting bidders. Major new
investments were prohibited, and operational capital expenditures were subject to approval. In
November 1991, three firms, (AHMSA/CMC, SICARTSA L and SICARTSA Il together with
their subsidiaries) were sold through a bid process. The total deal amounted to US$1,470
million, comprising US$340 million in cash, US$195 million in short- and medium-term debt,
US$350 million in long term obligations and future investment pledges by the three successful
bidders of US$585 million. The Government required the bidders to escrow the funds for
investment pledges and loan commitments prior to actual transfer of ownership.
13.   AHMSA and CMC, beneficiaries of the investment part of the project, were acquired
by a Mexican group for a total bid of US$1,030 million, which included US$145 million cash,
US$350 million assumed debt and US$535 million committed investments. At that time, 52%
of the Bank loan had been disbursed and about 70% of the total actual project cost had been
committed. The privatization of AHMSA was not an explicit goal of this project and therefore
a detailed cost-benefit analysis of investment in restructuring prior to privatization is not
attempted in this report. However, note that sector reform and restructuring enabled AHMSA
to return to profitability prior to sale.
14.   The cost to the Government of AHMSA and CMC restructuring estimated at the time
of sale was US$1,200 million (US$300 million in investment, US$600 million in debt
reduction and US$300 million in labor reduction). At GOM and private sector owner request,
the Bank worked with NAFIN and others involved, to obtain the necessary agreements to
continue project financing, with the same objectives and under the same conditions as the
original loan. This enabled the new owners to assume responsibility for the AHMSA/CMC
parts of the loan totaling US$220 million. As a result, GOM total cost to restructure these
companies was approximately US$980 million.
15.   Physical Objectives. All of the physical objectives of the project have been surpassed.
The steelmaking facilities and flat products rolling mills of AHMSA and raw material supply of
CMC, (Part B) were modernized and rehabilitated under the project, as defined by the Bank
and the firms in 1987, and updated by the new private sector owners and their technical
consultants, during the privatization process in 1991. The investment program after



- 5 -
privatization was accelerated and expanded, with the portion of the program related to the
original objectives and the Bank loan completed in 1996.
16.   AHMSA and CMC surpassed the physical aspects of the project. For example,
finished steel production of flat products reached 2.2 mtpy in 1996, compared to 1.6 mtpy in
1987, prior to project commencement, and 2.0 mtpy projected for the project in the SAR.
Capacity utilization in 1987 was 65.9% and today is about 98%. As part of the work in the
steelmaking facilities, obsolete and heavily-polluting steelmaking furnaces were shut down and
physically removed. Investments in new continuous casting and other facilities improved
steelmaking capability and quality. Yield, a measure of material input utilization efficiency, has
increased from 71.5% in 1987 to 83.5% in 1996. Labor productivity has improved from about
16 man hours per ton in 1987 to about 10.8 man hours per ton in 1991, and is about 7.5 man
hours today. Further improvements are presented in the Operations Plan attached to the ICR
mission Aide Memoire and the Borrower's Contribution to the ICR (annexed to this report).
CMC, the raw materials supplier, was integrated into AHMSA by the new owners after
privatization. As an indication of project results, the amount of iron ore concentrate supplied to
AHMSA in 1991 was 2.15 mtpy and in 1996 was 3.63 mtpy.
17.   However, project implementation was not without problems. Overall, the project was
delayed by about three years for various reasons, including; (i) delays by GOM in decontrolling
prices; (ii) delays by SIDERMEX in developing an agreed sector strategy; (iii) budget
constraints imposed by GOM on the SOEs; (iv) Bank slowness in reacting to procurement
problems; and (v) delays of about eighteen months resulting from the privatization process.
18.   The component for the private sector firm, HYLSA (Part C), was canceled in 1990 at
the request of the firm's management. Implementation of Part C had been deferred at the
request of HYLSA due to the eighteen month delay in elaboration of the GOM Steel Sector
policy based on the SIDERMEX strategic plan. Shortly after the plan was agreed, the decision
was made to privatize the SIDERMEX Companies. In response to the plan, HYLSA
management decided to bid for major SIDERMEX facilities rather than modernize existing
facilities. Since there was no intention to carry out the objectives of the investment project at
that time, the firm requested cancellation of this part of the loan. HYLSA's failure to acquire
any of the SIDERMEX Companies again forced a change in strategy and a return to the
modernization concept and the firm then implemented a major expansion p. ogram, based on
the original objectives of the Bank project. Although the Bank funds had already been
canceled, the firm benefited from the sectoral reforms and open competition which the project
supported. The HYLSA project has been completed successfully; the firm has been
transformed into a world-class producer of flat products.
19.   Technical Assistance Objectives. The technical assistance component was highly
successful, particularly in contributing to sectoral development and privatization. Building on
the strategic sectoral studies completed prior to appraisal (supported directly from the Bank's
budget), the project supported detailed market studies for each SIDERMEX subsidiary.
Extensive project management assistance was provided to AHMSA and CMC, including
training of personnel at home and overseas, and intensive hands-on assistance was provided
throughout the life of the project. Grant funds were obtained from the United States
Government to conduct a thorough environmental assessment of the AHMSA steel plant that



- 6 -
identified pollution problems and their proposed solutions prior to privatization. This allowed
GOM and the new owners to quickly agree on actions and to have them carried out. AHMSA
reports that emissions have significantly decreased and that the firm is now fully in compliance
with all Mexican environmental regulations.
20.   Financial and Economic Objectives. Significant financial and economic benefits
were estimated at project appraisal. At loan closing these benefits are somewhat lower than
originally forecast, but are still positive (Part II, Table 9) and are satisfactory. The ex-post
financial rate of return of the AHMSA component is 16.1 percent versus the appraisal estimate
of 32.7 percent. The difference is mainly due to the three year delay in project execution which
escalated costs and delayed benefits. The economic rate of return, estimated at appraisal to be
32.3%, is calculated at 17.0%, slightly higher than the financial return due to effect of duties on
imported equipment. There are currently no economic cost or price adjustments impacting the
steel producers. These calculations include the benefits to AHIvISA from the supply of raw
materials from local sources which were improved in the CMC part of the project. Since 1991
the iron ore concentrate output has increased by about 1.5 million tons. This raw material is
delivered to AIMSA at a cost of about US$28 per ton. Equivalent material from other
sources is delivered to AIIMSA at about US$61 per ton. The opportunity savings to AHMSA
from this part of the project amount to about US$175 million in the period 1992 to 1997.
21.   Private Sector Development. While the project did not originally envision
privatization of the SIDERMEX companies, it attempted to institute private sector
management practices within the Government while creating a sectoral environment in which
the SOEs operated under competitive market conditions on a par with private sector firms.
Prepared at a time when privatization was not yet accepted by the Government, the focus of the
project was the liberalization of the steel market in order to eliminate costly fiscal subsidies and
to better serve the needs of downstream steel users. Even prior to the privatization, the project
was well on the way toward meeting these goals. Due to the restructuring of SIDERMEX,
which was successfully underway in 1990, the Salinas administration was able to use the
highly visible and strategic steel sector to demonstrate a strong commitment to reform. The
strengthened condition of the steel sector, coupled with a promise of continued partnership by
the Bank, made it easier to select it as one of the early targets for privatization. By 1990, the
performance of state-owned steel companies had already improved substantially. SICARTSA
was the first Mexican steel company to win the coveted ISO 9002 quality certification, which
occurred while still under public ownership. Despite AHMSA and SICARTSA's sizable
foreign debt (US$2,300 million), the two firms' financial results were improving and AHMSA
reported profits of US$12 million in 1989 with gross revenues 108% higher than in 1988. The
owner of AHMSA and CMC, Grupo Acerero del Norte, is a Mexican Group established solely
for this bid, with no direct steel industry experience, but has continued to receive extensive
technical assistance from a leading international steel producer. SICARTSA I was purchased
by another Mexican group that had been a consumer of steel and SICARTSA II was purchased
by an international steel producer based in Asia. After losing out in its bid for parts of
SIDERMEX, HYLSA raised funds to modernize its facilities and has now installed the most
advanced steel industry technology available, becoming one of North America's most
competitive producers.



-7-
22.   The steel sector restructuring, combined with privatization, has produced a world-class
industry with vigorous competition between domestic and international suppliers, integrated
producers and mini-mills. Technology upgrading and capacity expansion have far outpaced
expectations at appraisal. Efficiency has improved substantially. In addition, joint ventures
with international producers have resulted in further improvements in customer service.
Investments focused on expanding capacity, upgrading technology, and changing product mix
to take advantage of increased demand for higher value added products. Between 1991 and
1996, overall investment in the industry was estimated at over US$4,000 million, far exceeding
the commitments made by the bidders at the time of the auction. As a result, during the 8-year
period 1987-1995, aggregate production of the four largest Mexican steel companies rose
52%, from 5.2 million tons in 1987 to 7.9 million in 1995. Sales increased from US$1,200
million to US$2,500 million, a rise of 104%, and available data indicate that profits have
increased as well.
23.   Environmental performance in the sector improved continuously. Obsolete polluting
processes were shut down. New high-efficiency equipment, installed as part of the projects in
each plant, use the latest technology to reduce emissions at their source. Extensive recycling
was begun during restructuring, and new waste water systems were installed. Since
privatization, the firms have responded to tighter environmental agreements negotiated in the
privatization process and in some cases have moved faster and gone beyond the initial
agreements.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
24.   The project as implemented met or exceeded all of its primary development objectives,
which were to restructure the basic steel industry in order that it could satisfy the needs of
downstream steel consumers by providing steel products in sufficient quantity and quality, at
world competitive costs. It has provided a positive return to the economy, the sector and the
steel firms attaining the institutional, financial and economic goals that were set. The factors
that delayed project implementation were related to the manner in which the Bank dealt with
the project; bureaucratic difficulties faced by the Government in implementing agreed actions
in restructuring the SOEs, particularly in the allocation and release of funds; and managing the
process of privatization which required adequate time to accomplish its goals.
25.   Factors not Subject to the Borrower's Control. The Bank imposed strict
supervision and procurement reviews on this project since the loan was considered
controversial and politically sensitive by Bank management. Bank staff rigorously analyzed
and rejected several early versions of the SIDERMEX strategic plan, due to the inclusion of
additional investments, which were contrary to the agreed restructuring program, and could not
be economically or financially justified. The agreement on the strategic plan was expected to
take 3 months, but actually took 22 months, delaying the release of the second tranche of Part
A of the loan. Bank procurement guidelines were a second source of delay. The guidelines
were initially followed strictly, but it was realized that they were better suited to greenfield site
projects than to major rehabilitation of existing facilities. Completing the bid equalization
process for the single largest procurement package took significant time and effort that could
have been avoided if Bank staff had realized that a two stage bid process would have better fit



-8 -
the circumstances. It is a credit to the teamwork in this project that these problems were
identified and resolved jointly by Government, Bank, and AHMSA staff.
26.   Factors Subject to the Borrower's Control. The borrower eventually carried out all
of the agreed actions in the program and went further than envisioned at project appraisal.
However, several significant delays caused by the borrower resulted in escalated costs and
reduced benefits. These delays were related to the implementation of policy agreements;
provision of counterpart funds to implement the investment parts of the project; late release of
budgetary funds; and failure to allow the firms to continue with contracts already committed
during the privatization process. The annual budgeting process presented a significant barrier
to effectively implementing the project. Funds for any multi-year project had to be requested
on an annual basis rather than making a full funding commitment at the start of the project.
27.   Factors Subject to the Implementing Agency's Control. The implementing agency
NAFIN, and the firms AHNMSA and CMC, the beneficiaries of the loan, performed their duties
extremely well, especially considering the multiple and sometimes conflicting demands of the
Government and the Bank. The firms worked closely with the Bank and technical assistance
providers and attempted to get the most from it. The firms, together with NAFIN, handled
Bank procurement guidelines professionally and worked diligently with Bank staff to resolve
procurement problems and move the project ahead satisfactorily. After privatization the Bank
allowed the use of "private sector type" procurement and turnkey bids which greatly
accelerated the progress of the project.
D. Project Sustainability
28.   The project has met and exceeded all of its objectives. The firms are continuing to
invest in further improvements to maintain and improve their competitive advantage. The
sector is now totally private and competing successfully in both domestic and foreign markets.
Steel customers are able to utilize lower priced domestically produced steels in high quality
export auto and appliance products. The project is considered fully sustainable.
E. Bank Performance
29.   The project was conceived as a complex hybrid that attempted to deal with all of the
major issues relating to the sector. Unfortunately, before Board presentation, it was attacked
by a major Bank Board government due to the project's perceived threat to that country's
domestic steel industry. Project identification and appraisal were well-prepared and thorough,
enabling a close collaboration with the Government on complex and politically difficult policy
issues; however, after Board approval the project was not well supported in the Bank. This
lack of support, coupled with the timing of multiple Bank reorganizations, limited the
availability of resources to assist the borrower in the early critical stages of the project. In an
attempt to partly alleviate this situation, Bank staff urged the Project Management Consultant
to employ people experienced in World Bank investment operations in order to allow more
scarce Bank resources to be spent on key issues related to the policy portions of the loan. In
spite of these efforts, the lack of supervision resources contributed to delays, particularly in
recognizing the problems relating to procurement procedures. On the positive side, the same
Bank Industry Specialist, worked on this project from inception in 1985 to the present day.



- 9 -
This continuity contributed to the outcome, and is considered especially beneficial in such a
complex project.
F. Borrower Performance
30.   Overall, GOM's performance was satisfactory in that all of the project objectives were
eventually met or exceeded. The major problems in the early stages of the project arose from
the delays that have already been detailed. The Government decision to fully privatize the steel
sector resulted in levels of sustainable benefits far in excess of expectations at appraisal. The
performance of the borrower, NAFIN, was fully acceptable, with capable and timely
administration of the loan. NAFIN was also responsible for negotiating the agreement with the
new private owners of AHMSA/CMC to continue the Bank loan after privatization. The
performance of AHMSA, CMC and SIDERMEX management in the public sector and of the
new post-privatization management of AHMSA and CMC was exceptional throughout the life
of the project. The firm managers have been the primary contributors to success of the
investment part of the project.
G. Assessment of Outcome
31.   All the objectives have been met or exceeded, and the steel industry in Mexico is
satisfying domestic and export market requirements in provision of high quality steel products
at competitive costs. The steel sector is fully privatized and the firms are operating profitably.
The policy and institutional objectives have been met or exceeded, and the financial and
economic benefits are positive and acceptable. The project outcome is rated as highly
satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
32.   The project modemized the AHMSA steel plant and its raw material supply. The
project supported extremely overdue investments to bring the facilities up to current standards
- the firms' on-going program of maintenance, technical upgrading and investment that will
ensure the enterprises' long term viability. Near term operating and investment plans are
spelled out in Annex 2: "Operation Plan for the AHMSA Steel Plant." It states that;
"AHMSA's strategy for its steel segment is to consolidate its leading market-share position in
the Mexican flat products market, maintain an important presence in export markets, improve
capacity utilization with respect to its existing products, develop higher value-added steel
products and increase its customer base. Operationally, AHMSA is focused on reducing
production costs and improving product and process quality."
I. Key Lessons Learned
33.   This project is an example of restructuring prior to privatization, and the strongly
positive results that can be attained when the Bank commits to a flexible long-term partnership
with government and the private sector to carry out a complex and comprehensive restructuring
program. The project began with sector work undertaken by Bank staff, which allowed all of
the major steel producing and consuming enterprises to contribute to a strategic and policy
framework for the sector as a whole. The loan, based on this framework, was the vehicle for



- 10-
the Bank to provide political and financial support, as well as technical and economic advice,
from knowledgeable Bank staff and internationally-recognized advisors. Because of this total
commitment, the Bank had an influence at all three levels of the partnership (Government,
sector, and firm). To be effective, Bank staff had to be flexible and respected, seen as neutral,
competent, third party advisors whose only objective was to see that the sector and its
enterprises were successfully transformed.
34.   The success of the sectoral restructuring process facilitated the privatization of the
SIDERMEX Companies at a date much earlier than originally envisioned. The steel sector was
chosen for privatization prior to any other industrial subsector, in part, because the
restructuring of SIDERMEX and the rehabilitation of AHMSA and CMC had proceeded with
a high degree of success. From the beginning, the Bank presence served to facilitate a
restructuring process with the eventual goal of privatization - the promise of possible financial
support allowed the Bank to use conditionality to incentivize sectoral reform and support the
agreed restructuring process. The hybrid form of the loan, supported by well written legal
covenants, allowed disbursement of investment funds to be linked to policy dialogue and policy
based funds to be linked to agreements on enterprise strategy. These linkages allowed the
Bank to apply pressure to keep the process moving and provided a great deal of flexibility in
dealing with change.
35.   These successes came as a result of significant institutional commitment in terms of
skills, budgetary resources and financial and political capital. Critically, extensive and costly
sector work was undertaken prior to project preparation. Several lessons from this project
could be applied to ongoing work in other countries. In particular, the Bank may wish to
reexamnine the use of hybrid loans to facilitate the implementation of difficult policy decisions
that could be linked to restructuring and privatization. In the Mexico case, the hybrid loan
structure developed on the basis of sector work and partnership provided the leverage at all
three levels (Government, sector, and firm) that gave the Bank a strong role in promoting
econornic change.
36.   The Mexican steel sector, downstream steel consumers, and the economy overall have
all benefited from privatization. However, this step was not on the explicit agenda when the
project and loan were developed. The restructuring program supported by the Bank loan
prepared both the government and the enterprises for that step when the opportunity presented
itself The Government decision to privatize was supported and influenced by the Bank
presence and facilitated by the advances brought about by the project. Bank presence and
support provided the catalyst to accelerate the transition of the Mexican steel sector and could
potentially play an analogous role today in economies heavily dependent on industrial sector
performance.
37.   The successful restructuring and privatization of the Mexico steel sector was
accomplished on a centralized, rather than decentralized (firm-by-firm) basis. In many
economies, the centralized approach may still have merit, along with the inclusion of both
public and private sector firms in Bank investment loans. Government implemented or
centralized actions as part of an overall restructuring program may be the only means to carry
out policy initiatives to improve the viability of enterprises and help prepare for privatization.
Support for centralized actions coupled with impartialfinancial support provided the



- I1 -
necessary encouragement for the country to undertake this exceptionally thorough reform
program.
38.   In the privatization process, GOM sold the SIDERMEX companies to "strategic
investors" rather than dispersing ownership more widely to managers, workers, and the
population in general. In this case, the investors were primarily Mexican groups that could
afford to raise the necessary funds to participate in the bid process. Possible oligopolistic
practices have been avoided through the simultaneous trade liberalization measures
undertaken. The results appear financially and economically successful, but the project did not
have specificpoverty reduction and social objectives. This lack of coverage, in spite of the
labor reductions envisioned in the restructuring program, may have been an oversight at the
time of project preparation. Further study would be warranted to assess the impact of the labor
reductions (and the accompanying lump sum separation pay) on poverty reduction and other
social objectives, particularly in the isolated areas of Monclova and Lazaro Cardenas, Mexico.






- 12 -
PART HI: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial   Partial   Negligible   Applicable
Macroeconomic policies          x
Sector policies                 x
Financial objectives            x
Institutional development       x
Physical objectives             x
Poverty reduction                                                     x
Gender concerns                                                       x
Other social objectives                                               x
Environmental objectives        x
Public sector management        x
Private sector development      x
Project Sustainability
Likely                     Unlikely                   Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification            x
Preparation               x
Appraisal                 x
Supervision                                      x
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                 x
Implementation              x
Covenant compliance                               x
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory     Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank loans
Year of
Loan Title             Purpose                             Approval  Status
Preceding Operations
Loan 2745-ME           Liberalization of trade policy to enable  1986  Completed
Fist Trade Policy Loan   entry to GATr and provide balance of
payments support
Loan 2882-ME           Further liberalization of trade policy and    1988  Completed
Second Trade Policy    provision of balance of payments support
Loan
Following Operations
Loan 2919-ME           Hybrid loan to support sectoral policy  1988   Completed
Fertilizer Sector      reforms and investment in restturing of
Adjustment Loan       fertilizer sector
Loan 3085-ME           Reduction of public sector role in industry  1989  Completed
Public EntrKprise Reform  through privatization and rationalization
Ioan
Loan 3087-ME           Create policy environment for increased    1989  Completed
Industri Sector Policy    private sector investment
Loan
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                       Date planmed       Date actual
Identification                               10/86              10/86
Project Brief                                12/86              12/86
Preappraisal                                 02/87              02/87
Appraisa                                     03/87              03/87
Negotiations                                 06/87              01/88*
Board presentation                           08/87              03/88*
Signing                                      03/88              03/88
Effectiveness                                03/88              03/88
Project Completion                           01/92              01/95
Loan closing                                 12/93              12/96
* Delays due to Bank reorganization, subsequent planned dates rescheduled at signing.



- 14-
TABLE 4: LoAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CuMuLATIvE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ million)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995    1996
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Part A. Disbursement    50.0   0.0    50.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0
Part B. Disbursement    0.0    21.1   17.4   27.3   62.1   6.2    29.8    38.3    18.8
Total Disbursement      50.0   21.1   67.4   27.3   62.1   6.2    29.8    38.3    18.8
Appraisal estimate*     98.5   224.8  320.0  321.0  321.0  321.0  321.0   321.0   321.0
Actual accumulated      50.0   71.1   138.5  165.8  227.9  234.1  263.9   302.2   321.0
Actual%ofestimate       50.8   31.6   43.3   51.7   71.0   72.9   82.2    94.1   100.0
Final disbursement                                                          December 96
Part C. Canceled
*Reflects revision due to cancellation of US$79 million in 1991.
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR /a               Estimated           Actual
Hot Strip Mill Invitation to Bid                      03/88               03/88
Hot Strip Mill Contract                               03/89               12/89
Hot Strip Mill Installation                           08/90               07/93
Hot Strip Mill Operation of Step One                  01/91               05/94
Hot Strip Mill Operation of Step Two                  01/92               01/95
Commencement of project management technical assistance  04/88            05/88
/a Specific project implementation indicators were developed in the SAR for each major part of the project. Hot
Strip Mil represents the majority of the investment and its operation controls practically all the returns.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
There were no specific indicators set apart from financial covenants.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study              Purpose                             Status       Impac.Pof Std    .
Part B. 1 AHMSA
Project Management Management Information System,      Completed   Effective Management
and Technical      Engineering, Project Management and              and Institutional
Assistance         Training                                         Development
Part B.2 CMC
Project Management Management Information System,      Completed   Effective Management
and Technical      Engineering, Project Management and              and Technical Assistance
Assistance         Training
Part B.3 SIDERMEX
Strategic Planning    Planning and Implementation of Sector Completed   Privatization of Public
Restrucurin and Developme nt                    Steel Sector



15 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal esfimate           Actual/latest
Item                            Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign   Total
Equipment, materials and spares  51.6      253.0    304.6      150.0    359.6    509.6
Civil works and erection         56.6     9.3       65.9      220.0    0.0        220.0
EngineeringlProject Management   4.9       10.7      15.6      7.5       0.4      7.9
Training and technical assistance  5.9     12.8     18.7       3.3       39.7     43.0
Base Cost                     119.0    285.8    404.8       380.8    399.7    780.5
Physical contingencies           15.8      22.3     38.1       -         -        -
Price contingencies              22.9      19.9     42.8       -         -        -
Installed Cost               157.7    328.0    485.7       380.8     399.7    780.5
Taxes & Duties                   79.3     0.0       79.3       45.3     0.0       45.3
Incremental working capital      55.6      14.8     70.4       0.0      0.0       0.0
Interest during construction    2.9       25.8      28.7      0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing Required     295.5    368.6    664.1       426.1    399.7    825.8
Note: Actual civil works and erection cost, include equipment and materials estimated at about US$80
nillion equivalent that were part of three major turnkey projects implemented after privatization.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest
Item                           Local     Foreign   Total      Local     Foreign   Total
IBRD loan                      0.0       220.0     220.0      3.1       216.9    220.0
US EXIM Bank                   -         -         -          0.0       82.9      82.9
KFW Germany                    -         -         -          0.0       15.0      15.0
Other Short Term Loans         32.0      0.0       32.0       -         -         -
Other Long Term Loans          -         -         -          10.1      31.0      41.1
Intemal Cash Generation        263.5     148.6     412.1      412.9     88.9      501.8
Total                       295.5     368.6      664.1      426.1     399.7    825.8



- 16 -
TABLE 9: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Benefits of the Project in Current US$ Million
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Production                                 -     (3.65)    7.06    (0.66)   21.00    42.33    42.33
Increase
Cost             -        -       -        -     66.89    80.32   126.48   115.11   89.30    89.30
Decrease
Incremental      -       -        -        -     63.24    87.37   125.82   136.11   131.62   131.62
Cash Flow
Investments   43.94    69.56    54.18    66.19    88.10   103.76  201.71   120.85   77.65      -
Free Cash     (43.94)  (69.56)  (54.18)  (66.19)  (24.85)  (16.39)  (75.89)   15.26    53.97   131.62
Flow
Net Present    194.25
Value
Internal Rate  16.1%
of Return
Notes:
(1)     The financial rate of return, calculated to be 16.1% is based on the results of Part B. 1,
the AHMSA portion, which was estimated at appraisal at 32.7 %.
(2)     The economic rate of return, calculated to be 17.3%, is based on the results of Part B. 1,
the AHMSA portion, which was estimated at appraisal to be 32.3%.
(3)     These calculations do not separately identify the benefits to AHMSA from the supply of
its own raw materials from local sources, which were further developed as Part B.2, the CMC portion.
However, since 1991, when the benefits of the project were beginning to be obtained, there has been an
additional output of iron ore concentrate, delivered to AHMSA from the captive mines, totaling about 5.3
million tons. This raw material is delivered at a cost of about US$28 per ton. Equivalent material from
other sources is delivered at about US$61 per ton. Considering the savings of about US$33 per ton, had
this part of the project not been successful, the cash flow of AHMSA, could have been reduced by about
US$175million.



- 17 -
TABLE 9A: FINANCIAL COSTS AND BENEFITS-UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS
1.    The project was made up of a series of modifications and replacements to part of
an existing operating steel plant. To develop benefits related to the project, incremental
cash flows were developed based on comparison of actual performance of the company
(AHMSA); during the years 1992, when the first new facilities that are part of the project
came on line, through 1997, which is the first full year of production of all of the new
facilities; to the cost and production performance of the company before the project.
2.    The benefits relating to production increase are based on the volume increase
credited to the new facility, or decrease if a facility was shut down due to modification,
during the year. Cost decrease is developed across all tonnage produced by the modified
facilities by comparing cost of production before and after modification or replacement of
facilities.
3.    Investments are based on project expenditures in the year in which the cash was
paid out.
4.    Returns assume that the 1997 cash flow remains constant for the next ten years.
TABLE 9B: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS-UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS
1.    The economic rate of return is calculated on the same basis as the financial returns.
It is assumed that distortions in pricing of inputs and outputs to the sector in general and
AHMSA in particular have been eliminated during the life of the project.
2.    The same benefit cash streams for production increase and cost decrease are used.
The investment stream is reduced by the duties paid on imported equipment of US$45.3
million equivalent.



- 18 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
In       Section    Status    Origi   Revis   Description of covenant                  Conunents
Status                        nal      ed
Date    Date
Loan     4.01       OK                         NAFIN to fumish audited financial       All pending audit reports have
statements for project account for     been received
expenditures under Part A
4.02      OK                          NAFIN to funish audited financial
statements for Special Account.
Schd.6.1   OK                         AHMSAto maintain ratio of current      Bank waived covenant in 1995
(3)                                   assets/current liabilities of at least 1.2 and    and agreed phased return to
D/E ratio less than 67.33.             original ratio.
Schd.     OK                          AliMSA not to incur additional debt which   Bank waived covenant in 1995
6.1(4)                                would cause D/E ratio to exceed 67.33 and   and agreed schedule for phased
projected debt service coverage ratio to fall  return to original ratio.
below 1.5.
Schd.6.0   NA                         HYLSAto observe financial covenants    Part C canceled at HYLSA's
V(3)                                  simnilar to those included in Debt     request. Debt restructuring with
Restructuring agreements with it private  private creditors was concluded
creditors.                             in October 1989.
Guaran   2.03       NA                         Govenmment to provide adequate          Funding for investments in Part
tee                                             counterpart funding.                   B to come from new private
sector owners. In compliance.
3.03      OK         06/30/           Government to issue ,satisfactory global  Satisfactory policy statement
88              steel sector policy statement.          received in January 1990.
3.04      OK        06/30/            Govenmment to implement and maintain   Prices officially liberalized in
88              liberalized steel prices.               September 1989; removed from
PACTO agreements in
September 1990.
3.05      OK         06/30/           Government to implement Steel Trade    Tariffs on imported steel
88               Policy Program and maintain it in effect in   products reduced in 1987 and
manner consistent with Steel Sector Reform   maintained at 0 to about 10%.
Program.                               Performance satisfactory.
3.06      NA                          Govenmment to prepare report on progress    Not requested.
of Steel Sector Reform Program upon
request.
SIDER   2.01(b)    NA                          SIDERMEX to designate and maintain      SIDERMEX closed as part of
MEX                                            satisfactory Project Manager within 90 days  privatization. Part B.3 canceled
after first disbursement for Part B.   at Governmemt request.
2.06(a)    OK       03/31/  01/23   SIDERMEX to prepare satisfactory         Satisfactory plan received in
88      /90      Strategic Plan.                        January 1990.
2.06(b)    NA        11/01/           SIDERMEX to review Strategic Plan      Not applicable (see above).
88               annually with the Bank.
2.07      OK         06/15/           SIDERMEX to carry out restructuring    Privatization goes beyond the
88               program in accordance with "convenio."  program in the convenio.
4.01(b),   OK                         SIDERMEX to fumish audited financial   Satisfactory performance.
(c)                                   statements to Bank, including audit of and
separate opinion on accounts identifying
expenditure under Part B.3.
4.02      OK        09/15/            SIDERMEX and subsidiaries to revalue   Revaluation of assets completed
88              fixed assets and adjust balance sheets  in June 1990 as part of the
accordingly.                           privatization process.
CMC      2.01(b)    OK                         CMC to establish and maintain Project   Satisfactory perfonnance.



- 19 -
Proiect                                         Management unit to carry out project
2.06       OK                         CMC to prepare and implement Action      Satisfactory performance.
Plan and review progress with Bank
annually, beginning 6 months after frst
disbursement under Part B(2).
3.04       OK                         CMC to carry out satisfactory program for    Satisfactory plan received May
restructuring and reorganize itself as  1989.
holding company for mining operations.
4.01       OK                         CMC to furnish audited fnancial          Satisfactory performance.
statements to Bank, including audit of
expenditures under part B(2) of project.
HYLS    2.01(b)    NA                           HYLSAto designate and maintain           Part C of the loan canceled at
A                                               satisfactory Project Manager within 90 days  HYLSA's request.
after first disbursement for Part C.
2.06       NA                         HYLSAto prepare and implement Action    Not applicable (see above)
Plan and review progress with Bank
annually, beginning 6 months after first
disbursement under Part C.
4.01(b)    NA                         HYLSA to finish audited fmancial         Not applicable (see above).
statements to Bank, including audit of and
opinion on expenditure under Part C.
4.02       OK                         HYLSAto formulate program with its       "Second-round" debt
creditors to restructure its debt and   restructuring agreement with
formalize satisfactory agreements to canry    private creditors concluded in
out debt restructuring plan consistent with    October 1989.
financial requirements of Part C.
AHMS   2.01(b)    OK                            AHMSAto designate and maintain           Satisfactory performance.
A                                               satisfactory Project Manager within 90 days
after first disbursement for Part B. 1
2.06       OK                         AHMSA to prepare and implement Action    Satisfactory performance.
Plan and review progress with Bank
annually, beginning 6 months after furst
disbursement under Part B. 1
2.07       OK                         AHMSAto take all reasonable measures to   Satisfactory steps were taken by
ensure that the execution of Part B. 1 of the    AHMSA to correct damage to
project is carried out with due regard to  environment Continued
ecological and environmental factors.   monitoring required.
4.01(b)    OK                         AHMSAto furnish audited fnancial         1993 audit received.
statements to Bank, including audit of and
separate opinion on expenditures under Part
B.1
Covenant types:                                                                         Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                     8 = Indigenous people                           C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue       9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting           CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries      10 = Project implementation not                  CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of projectffunds   covered by categories 1-9                   NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5 = Management aspects of the              or other resources allocation
project or executing agency        12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement           13 = Other



- 20 -
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OPABP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle    Weeks         US$
Through appraisal      189              331,890
Appraisal-Board         21               42,570
Board-effectiveness    -
Supervision            160              465,141
Completion               6.3             20,411
Total               376.3             860,012



- 21 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Mont    No.  of  Days             Specialized    Implement-   Develop-    Type    of
h/year   persons   in             skills /a         ation status    ment             problems/
field                                          ojcie 
..............................I......................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................
Through appraisal             12/86    4             11         IS,F              n/s              n/s             n/s
2/87      2            10         IS,F              n/s              n/s             n/s
Appraisal        through   3/87         6           12          IS,E,F            n/s              n/s             n/s
Board approval
4/87      1            14         IS                n/s              n/s             n/s
5/87      2           3           IS,E              n/s              n/s             n/s
8/87      1            14         IS                n/s              n/s             n/s
9/87      1           7           IS                n/s              n/s             n/s
2/88      1           7           IS                n/s              n/s             n/s
Board           approval
through effectiveness
Supervision                  4/88       4           15          IS,E,IE           2                1               LC
technical assist          8/88       1           7           IS                3                 1              PO
technical assist          9/88       1           7           IS                n/s              n/s             n/s
technical assist          9/88       1           7           IS                n/s              n/s             n/s
10/88    3            14          IS,IE             2                3               PO,LC
operational assist         1/89       1           7           IE                n/s              n/s            PO, LC,
11/89    2            21          IS,IE             2                2               PO,PR
3/90      1            12         IS                2                 2              PO
6/90      2            14         IS,E              2                 2              PO
11/90    1            12          IS                2                 1              PO,PI
5/91      1            12         IS                2                 1              PO,PI,CF
technical assist           12/91    1             7           IS                n/s              n/s            PI
12/91    1            8           IS                n/s              n/s             PI
3/92      1           5           IS                2                 1              PI
7/92      2           2           IS,ES             2                 2              n/s
1/93      4           4           IS,ES             2                 1              n/s
6/93      2           3           IS,IE             2                 1              MA,CF
6/94   3              8           IS,E,ES           S                 S              MA
11/94  2              7           IS,IE             S                S               MA
6/95      4            12         IS,IE,ES          S                 S              LC
Completion                    1/97      2           10          ISJE              S                S               n/s
/a F - Financial Analyst, IS - Industrial Specialist, E - Engineer, M - Mining Engineer, IE - Industrial Economist, ES - Environmental
Specialist
/b PO - policy, LC - loan conditions, CF - Counterpart funding, PR - procurement, CI - construction and installation progress, PM -
project management/training, MA - market development, PI - Privatization.



- 22 -                      ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
A World Bank Mission visited Mexico City and Monclova from January 7 to 18, 1997
to discuss in detail the Implementation of the Steel Sector Restructuring Program (the Project)
and details of the supporting Bank loan to NAFIN which closed December 31, 1996. The
mission comprised Daniel Crisafulli (task manager) and Edmund Mangan (technical advisor).
The Mission met with representatives of SHCP, the government, NAFIN, the borrower, and
AHMSA and CMC, the beneficiaries, and with Grupo Acerero del Norte (GAN), the private
sector owner of the companies covered by the loan.
Key Issues
Legal Covenants and Loan Closing.  Since the last supervision mission in June 1995,
a waiver was granted to AHMSA for two of the legal covenants (current and debt coverage
ratios) and the loan closing date extended to December 1996. There are presently no
outstanding issues.
implementation Completion Report.  NAFIN and the beneficiaries have each been
informed of their obligation to prepare a report covering their part of the ICR. A draft outline
was prepared and discussed, along with information on the Restructuring Project prepared by
the Bank for a Case Study and a preliminary ICR after the last supervision mission in June
1995.
Overall Status
In summary, the Project is complete and successful. The major goals, to improve
quality and service to the steel-consuming industries in order to improve their competitive
performance are being accomplished. The steel industry is able to meet the demands of the
downstream steel consumers in terms of quality, quantity and price. In addition the industry is
competing successfully in the world steel market. The companies supported by the loan are
expected to finish 1996 profitably, with increased production and sales resulting from
implementation of the project. The loan closed in December 1996 after three extensions. Parts
B. 1 and B.2 of the loan, the investment projects for AHMSA and CMC, were completed in
1996 with all funds disbursed.
Part A US$100 Million Equivalent. The Steel Sector Reform Program was carried out
fully in the spirit of the agreements with the Bank and fully satisfied with the privatization of all
of the public sector steel companies in November 1991. The steel market in Mexico continues
to grow, with market based competition between imports and the products of the domestic
firns who have reduced costs and improved quality and customer service
Part B. 1 US$170 Million Equivalent. The Project at AHMSA is complete. All funds
have been disbursed and the benefits of the project are being realized. The mission discussed in
detail the requirements of the Implementation Completion Report and assisted in drafting an
outline for preparation of the borrowers portion. The data for the Bank portion of the report
was prepared during the mission.






-23-                       ANNEX 1
Part B.2 US$50 Million Equivalent. The CMC business plans for the coal and iron
mining areas were reviewed along with details of that portion of the Project, which is also
complete. Both AHMSA and CMC have been closely integrated into the new GAN
organization. The borrowers Implementation Completion Report will integrate the two
portions of the loan.
The modernization project supported by Part B of the loan was redefined after
privatization and new portions will continue beyond the Project completion date. The details
of this project and the operating plan are attached. This information was taken from the
PROSPECTUS prepared by AHMSA for a successful offering, of US$85,000,000, 5% Senior
Discount Convertible Notes due 2001, on the New York Stock Exchange in 1996.
Expected Development Impact
In its early stages, the loan supported a broad-based reform of the Mexican steel sector,
that led to privatization of the state owned steel companies in 1991. The remaining components
of the Project concern the financing of investments to transform the steel producing firm,
AHMSA and its raw material supply CMC, from an insular firm with outmoded processes into
an internationally-competitive, integrated steel production operation. This has been critical to
the overall objective of the Project to provide the market with high quality steel at competitive
prices.
Environmental Protection. The mission reviewed environmental aspects of the
AHMSA plant. A new HCL regeneration plant for the pickling line has been put into
operation eliminating environmentally damaging waste flow, which has been one of the main
environmental problems of the plant. Other environment related activities have concentrated
mainly on improving the efficiency of water use, thereby reducing substantially the amount of
water required and the flow of waste water. A final waste water treatment plant along with
other environmental improvements are included in the ongoing project plans.
Procurement and Disbursements
All funds have been disbursed and the loan closed on December 31, 1996.
Legal Covenants
As of Project completion and the loan closing date, the borrower was in compliance
with all legal covenants.
Washington, DC January 17,1997



-24 -                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: OPERATION PLAN FOR THE AHMSA STEEL PLANT
Strategy for Operations and Investments
AHMSA's strategy for its steel segment is to consolidate its leading market-share
position in the Mexican flat products market, maintain an important presence in export
markets, improve capacity utilization with respect to its existing products, develop higher
value-added steel products and increase its customer base. Operationally, AHMSA is
focused on reducing production costs and improving product and process quality.
Since 1992, AHMSA has implemented a modernization program for its steel
business, based on the World Bank Steel Sector Restructuring Project and further
developed by Grupo Acerero del Norte, S.A. de C.V. ("GAN"), AHMSA's controlling
shareholder, and its technical advisor, Hoogovens Technical Services, B.V.
("Hoogovens") at the time of privatization in 1991. The full plan is expected to be
completed by the third quarter of 1998. Specifically, at its Monclova steel facilities,
AHMSA intends to: (i) boost liquid steel production to 3.50 million tons in 1997; (ii)
increase the production of finished steel products to 2.98 million tons in 1998; (iii) raise
the production capacity for continuous casting of flat products to 100% in 1998
(following certain other related improvements); (iv) increase the yield of finished steel
products to liquid steel consumed to 84.3% in 1998; (v) improve productivity (measured
as steel plant employee hours per ton of liquid steel) to 7.13 employee hours per ton in
1998; (vi) improve product quality to meet the specifications of the high-end segment of
the domestic market; (vii) increase production of higher value-added products such as
galvanized, coated and tin-free steel; and (viii) modify and improve equipment and
processes to meet existing Mexican environmental regulations.
A capital improvements program at AHMSA's coal and iron ore mining
subsidiaries (the former CMC) is currently expected to be completed by year-end 1998.
This plan is designed to (i) modernize the coal and iron ore mines, expanding capacity to
meet AHNMSA's requirements as its steel production increases and (ii) increase production
levels of steam coal in order to meet anticipated increases in demand at CFE's power
plants. Between 1992 and September 30, 1996, the Company invested approximately
Ps.1,584.8 million ($209.8 million) in capital expenditures under the Mining Capital
Improvements Plan. To date, the Company has achieved the following goals under the
Mining Capital Improvements Plan: (i) increased the Company's production of iron ore
from 2.64 million tons in 1992 to 4.24 million tons in 1995 and 4.43 million tons (at an
annualized rate) in the first nine months of 1996, (ii) increased steam coal production at
MICARE from 5.10 million tons in 1992 to 6.32 million tons in 1995 and 7.27 million
tons (at an annualized rate) in the first nine months of 1996, and (iii) increased
metallurgical coal production from 1.48 million tons in 1992 to 1.71 million tons in 1995.
Metallurgical coal production decreased to 1.69 million tons (at an annualized rate) in the
first nine months of 1996. An additional Ps.1,814.9 million ($240.2 million) is budgeted
under the Mining Capital Improvements Plan for the fourth quarter of 1996 through 1998.
Management believes that the Company's metallurgical coal mining activities serve to
enhance its steam coal operations.



-25 -                      ANNEX 2
These plans are intended to enhance the Company's competitive advantages as a
low-cost steel producer with access to domestic and international steel markets as follows:
Focus on the Mexican Market. Mexico is a developing country with substantial
infrastructure needs. Prior to the 1995 Mexican economic crisis, Mexico showed a robust
demand for steel products. In 1994, apparent domestic consumption of steel products was
9.89 million tons, an increase of 49.3% from 1990. In 1995, apparent domestic
consumption of steel products declined to 6.15 million tons, of which 5.32 million tons
were supplied by domestic producers and 0.83 million tons were supplied by imports. As
the domestic economy improves, the Company believes that domestic demand for steel
products will increase.
Access to Ample Mineral Reserves and Economies of Scale. AHMSA has long-term
concessions to mine iron ore and metallurgical coal mines with proven and probable
reserves sufficient to provide AHMSA's steel operations with an ample and secure supply
of primary raw materials. In addition, AHMSA mines steam coal reserves for sale to the
CFE. The operation of five mining units (consisting of 14 operating mines) for both steel
production and outside sales allows AHMSA to realize economies of scale in its mining
operations, which based on outside industry studies, are sufficient to achieve one of the
lowest raw material input costs in the world.
Competitive Labor Costs. The Company's labor agreements, in combination with
retirements and attrition, and productivity achievements have contributed to significant
productivity gains. AHMSA's average wage and benefit cost for its steel and mining
operations was approximately $3.39 per hour during 1995 (excluding ANSA) and the first
nine months of 1996 (including ANSA), which it estimates, based on outside industry
studies, to be significantly below that of most of its foreign competitors. As a result of this
low wage and benefit cost, AHMSA's cost of raw materials and production of steel
products is substantially lower than that of most of its foreign competitors. In the first nine
months of 1996, the Company signed agreements governing its unionized workers, which
provided for nominal wage and benefit increases for 1996 ranging from 16% to 22% on an
annual basis. Inflation in Mexico was 52.0% for 1995 and 20.4% for the first nine months
of 1996. The next scheduled renegotiations of wages for AHMSA's workers will occur
during the first and second quarters of 1997.
Quality Products and Access to Foreign Markets. Since the privatization, AHMSA has
emphasized improvements to product quality. In 1995 and 1996, the Company obtained
an ISO 9002 certification from the International Standards Organization covering its blast
furnaces, its steelmaking, hot rolling and cold rolling facilities and its coke plants, pellet
plant and sinter plant. Improved product quality and the increased competitiveness of the
Company's steel products in foreign markets following the peso devaluation allowed the
Company to increase its export sales of steel products from 102 thousand tons in 1994 to
1,022 thousand tons in 1995 and 677 thousand tons in the first nine months of 1996.



- 26 -                     ANNEX2
Export sales volume accounted for 43% and 32% of total sales volume of steel products
in 1995 and the first nine months of 1996, respectively, compared to 5% in 1994.
Strategic Location. AHMSA's Monclova steelworks are located within 300 kilometers of
AHMSA's most important raw materials subsidiaries, thereby substantially reducing
transportation costs. In 1995 and in the first nine months of 1996, AHMSA's average cost
of delivery per ton of raw materials was approximately $1.15 and $ 1.10, respectively, per
ton of iron ore and approximately $3.07 and $3.20, respectively, per ton of coal. Similarly,
AHMSA's location near its primary domestic markets and its relative proximity to points
of export reduce finished product delivery costs.
Environmental Matters
AHMSA's operations are subject to Mexican federal and state laws and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including regulations concerning
water pollution, air pollution, noise pollution and hazardous substance discharge. In
November 1994, GAN entered into an environmental agreement with the governrment
under which it agreed to enter into self-audit programs. AHMSA had completed a self-
audit with respect to its steel operations, and in November 1994 AHMSA entered into an
environmental agreement with the government covering AHMSA's Monclova steelmaking
facilities. It is in substantial compliance with the Environmental Agreement.
As part of the modernization and improvements, between 1992 and September 30,
1996, AHMSA invested Ps.341.7 million in environmental projects, including Ps.317.7 to
renovate two pickling lines in the cold rolling mill to eliminate the discharge of sulfuric
acid, iron and heavy metals. As part of AHMSA's capital expenditure program, AHMSA
has budgeted an aggregate of Ps.239.5 million from October 1, 1996 through December
31, 1998 for environmental projects, including projects required to comply with the
Environmental Agreement and existing Mexican environmental laws. In addition to these
expenditures budgeted for environmental projects, other operational investments are
expected to provide environmental benefits. For example, the renovations to one of
AHMSA's coke plants, which were principally designed to improve efficiency, are
expected to reduce emissions and discharges from the plant.
Mexico, January 14, 1997



-27 -                      ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Background.
1. Project description. Part A (US$100 million) was tied to the implementation of price
decontrol, trade reform, elimination of Official Reference Prices for steel products and
reduction and equalization of steel tariffs, and presentation of a global steel sector policy
statement to expose the industry to international competition. Part B (US$225 million)
provided financing for the SIDERMEX restructuring program comprising the physical
rehabilitation of the AHMSA steelworks (US$170.0 million) and rehabilitation and
restructuring of the SIDERMEX mining operations (US$50.0 million). It also provided
assistance in corporate wide organizational and financial restructuring and for
development of SIDERMEX's long term strategy (US$5 million). Part C (US$75 million)
supports the restructuring effort of HYLSA in the modernization of its flat products
facility, in parallel with the financial restructuring package under negotiation with creditor
bank.
2. Objectives. The objectives of the Project were: (i) to assist the Mexican Government
in implementing a comprehensive and far-reaching reform of the steel sector and in
carrying out the needed restructuring actions; (ii) to assist the major players to rehabilitate
potentially efficient plants and equipment with demonstrable viability, enhance product
quality and reduce product costs, eliminate bottlenecks to achieve better utilization of
existing capacity, improve technical, financial and managerial controls and information
systems, train operation and maintenance staff, and develop the human resources to
achieve the overall objectives of greater competitiveness and responsiveness to market
needs, and; (iii) to assist the Government and the industry in elaborating their long term
strategies and policies to achieve a healthier development of the steel sector in line with
the country's development objectives.
PART A. POLICY BASED COMPONENT
3. The steel sector reform project was very successful. Overall, policy objectives were
met and steel consumers have access to steel products of intemationally competitive
quality at free market prices. This enhanced the capability of the Mexican manufacturing
sector to compete better in the world market. The US$100 million policy component was
disbursed in two tranches. US$50 million at the time of loan effectiveness in March 1988
and US$50 million at the time of agreement on sector strategy in January 1990. The
Government involvement in the sector, as regulator and producer, has been eliminated.
Privatization has created a dynamic, export-oriented, low-cost, modern steel sector.
4. The opening of the sector presented conflicts between the firm interest(faster increase
in prices but slower reduction in protection) and the global interest (slower reduction in
prices but faster reduction in tariff to fight inflationary pressures). The liberalization of
tariffs, initially, was not a problem, partially because lower local prices from price
controls, and import content requirements, made tariff ineffective.



-28 -                      ANNEX3
5. The liberalization of price controls, on the other hand, was difficult and delayed, but
nevertheless completed by September 1990. Other policy components were implemented,
tariff were reduced and equalized between flat and not flat products, local content
requirement was eliminated, subsidized input prices have been eliminated, inefficient
installations were closed, divestitures of non-steel enterprises was done, strategic and
diagnostic studies were carried out and furthermore the sector was privatized.
6. The process of opening the Mexican economy to international competition started in
1985, with a reduction of Quantitative Restrictions from 100% to 39%. Mexico joined the
GATT in 1986, after which trade liberalization accelerated. Steel import tariffs fell in
1986 from 40% to 37% on finished non-flat steel products, and 25% to 20% on most flat
products. By the end of 1987, tariffs on steel products ranged from 0% to 15%, and
official reference prices had been phased out. In the following years, no further tightening
of trade restrictions was imposed and Mexico is now a party of NAFTA agreements.
7. Privatization was the end result of a complex process, with a series of decision that
created the political and economic preconditions that ultimately led to privatization. The
policy and political changes started in the early eighties and culminated in 1991.
8. During the process of restructuring, AIMSA laid off employees, this provoked union
unrest and one strike. The firm took a strong stand that resulted in changing the labor
contracts and a reduction in union power. A second element was the conflict between the
Government's financial constrained and the financial resource needs of the steel industry.
The unwillingness of the Government to authorize funds for AHMSA's restructuring, a
high return project, illustrate the conflict.
9. The process of freeing steel prices proved to be longer and more complicated than that
of trade liberalization, due to concerns about its inflationary effects and conflicts with the
Economic Solidarity Pact (ESP) of December 1987 and the ones that followed. The intent
of these agreements was to reduce inflation and restore confidence in macroeconomic
policy, while avoiding a recession. These factors delayed complete price decontrol until
September, 1990. In May 1989, the Government modified the Foreign Investment Law to
enlarge the number of sectors in which foreign ownership was permitted. Other
protectionist measures which were phased out were domestic content requirements and
subsidized input prices.
10. SIDERMEX assets were separated into three groups and their liabilities sorted
accordingly. Also, in March, 1990, to make the companies more attractive to potential
bidders, the Government assumed US$2.3 billion of SIDERMEX foreign debt (of which
SICARTSA II comprised approximately 67%).
11. In March, 1990, the Government announced its decision to privatize SIDERMEX.
The SHCP, the ministry responsible for implementation of the privatization program,
formed its own independent teams and sought technical and financial advice from
international sources, particularly officials who had been involved in the British Steel



-29 -                      ANNEX3
privatization. The presence of international experts is believed to have enhanced the
credibility of the process and helped diffuse resistance.
12. SHCP restrained steel companies from undertaking major new investments during the
privatization process, and made operational capital expenditures subject to prior approval.
The Government wanted to ensure that buyers would have a sufficient stake in the
companies and possess the necessary resources and expertise to implement required
modernization. Therefore, at SHCP's suggestion, the Government decided to sell each
company as a whole or in a package of a steel mill and mines, through open international
bidding process. Also decided that an important selection criterion would be the amount
of committed investment for restructuring and improving the competitiveness of the three
steel companies. Consequently, as a precondition of sale, bidders were required to
develop a complete business plan and commit legally to investing in modernization.
Government and NAFIN's Role in Project Implementation.
13. Government through SHCP, SECOFI and SEMIP carried out the policy component,
saw to the provision of counterpart funds and implemented the agreed strategic plan.
NAFIN's role in the execution of the project was to coordinate and consolidate the work
of all concerned enterprises and provide assistance in resolving project implementation
issues to ensure smooth progress of the project.
Cooperation with the World Bank.
14. During the whole course of the Project Implementation, even though there were
delays and differences of opinion, the cooperation between Government, NAFIN and the
Bank has been satisfactory. Whenever difficulties or problems arose, they were dealt
through bilateral friendly discussions and consultations. The guidelines and procedures
adopted by the Bank in appraising and implementing the project were concise, technically
correct and efficient, and generally Bank requirements and suggestions to the executing
agency were rational. Bank officials in charge of appraisal and supervision as well as
technical experts were skillful, competent and responsible. Their hard work contributed a
great deal to the successful implementation of the project.
Lessons Learned and Prospects
15. The transformation from a non-market, closed, Government dominated sector, to an
open, private, market environment involved changes in behavior at government, sector and
enterprise levels. From the Mexican steel sector experience, it appears that the sector
restructuring program did help. A sector program, can be a positive contribution to
modernization, as long as, Government disengagement, opening of the sector and
privatization are enacted.
PART B. PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT COMPONENT
Background.
16. During Project preparation, The World Bank carried out a Steel Sector Strategy
Study to help the Government and the enterprises to identify appropriate strategies for the



-30 -                      ANNEX3
development of an efficient domestic steel industry. This was foliowed by separate studies
carried out with consultants to prepare an optimal investment program for AHMSA and
CMC to meet the requirements of the steel market in Mexico. As part of the Study, the
Bank designed a computer-based mathematical programming model to facilitate review of
the options, using data provided by SIDERMEX. The model covers optimization of
investment at the national level as well as at each plant in terms of location, scale of
operations and levels of production in the context of the constraints associated with the
transport of raw materials, intermediates and final products. Selection of optimal
strategies was based on a comparison of different options and scenarios.
Technical assistance in AHMSA and CMC.
17. World class industry consulting firms ("Consultant") expert in project management,
raw material and steel production were hired. Technical and commercial specifications for
AHMSA's modernization projects, were originally prepared with the assistance of the
Consultant. After the award of a technical assistance contract, the specifications were
reviewed and some adequacies were included to provide a more complete scope of the
total work to be performed. In CMC, the Consultant services focused more on operations,
exploration to estimate the potential iron ore and coal reserves, and management
information systems. Directly related activity to the project was mainly the preparation of
some technical specifications and some assistance for the development of a project
computerized cost control system.
18. Both AHMSA and CMC are pleased with the performance of their consultants who
helped in improving the projects management activities and also solving several
contractual misinterpretations. After the privatization, AHMSA' s new technical partner
was also involved in the modernization project. A Task Force consultant group was
created that combined key consulting staff with the new technical partner in order to
continue with the modernization program. The Task group was very successful.
19. Once the decision to privatize the steel companies was made, the part of the loan
corresponding to SIDERMEX was canceled. From the objectives of this part, only that
related to the assessment of the strategic study was carried out by a world class
consultant. With the privatization of the sector SIDERMEX was dissolved.
Project Objectives.
20. AHMSA concentrated on shifting the product mix to flat products, heavy structurals
and rails with an overall reduction in steelmaking capacity and improvements in quality
and lowering the costs of production, primarily in hot and cold rolled sheet and tin plate.
The major technical thrust was to: (i) rationalize the steelmaking and continuous casting
facilities; (ii) rehabilitate and improve the quality and productivity of the hot strip mill; (iii)
balance the cold rolling mills and improve the quality of the cold rolled products; (iv)
provide catch up maintenance throughout plant operations and in plantwide utilities and
services; (v) expand the product line by using the underutilized heavy structural mill for
the production of rail; and, (vi) provide for enhancement of systems and training. The main
changes in objectives and scope were : cancellation of the rail project by budget



- 31-                      ANNEX3
constraints (1989); closedown of the Siemens Martin steelshop by enforcement of the
environmental regulations (1991); new management's business plan that changed scope of
investments in the cold mills and continuos casting areas; and, reorientation of the training
component with the assistance of the AHMSA's new technical partner.
21. CMC concentrated on raising the productivity in the coal mining operations and
strengthening the Hercules iron ore operation, bringing it to its intended level of operation,
through a mixture of maintenance and equipment renewal, debottlenecking investments,
systems and control and technical assistance for project management, operational
improvements and upgrading of technical skills. After privatization, main focus was placed
in the improvement of the iron ore mines mainly with the installation of the magnetic
separation equipment; refurbishing of the iron ore slurry pipeline, magnetic concentration,
and increasing capacity of the pellet plant
22. SIDERMEX was to carry out the long term strategic studies including the necessary
supporting technical studies to: undertake the corporatewide asset revaluation exercise
and translate the results into a suitable financial structure; implement the organizational
and financial restructuring measures that emerge after the completion of the long term
strategic study; assist in the detailed planning of the long term strategic investments; and,
provide assistance for the implementation of corporate level management information
systems. This part of the project was canceled following the dissolution of SIDERMEX as
a result of the privatization of the steel companies.
Project Content
23. AHMSA. In the Modernization Project of AHMSA, the hot strip mill project was
significant in terms of the capital expenditures involved and its complexity. Investments in
predecessor's areas were necessary to achieve AHMSA's goals. Therefore, a description
of the hot strip mill project outlines most of the modernization plan of AHMSA. The
project was divided in three main areas: a) New slab yard, b) New reheating furnaces, c)
Hot Strip Mill modernization and Coil Handling and ancillary equipment.
24. The new slab yard comprises a new high speed transfer car, two new short transfer
cars and one large transfer car associated walking beam type handling equipment,
scarifying systems, inspection areas, slab cooling areas, and new and modified cranes. The
new slab yard was built on the area which previously housed the old Open Hearth
steelshop which has now been dismantled and removed.
25. Two new re-heating furnaces, walking beam type with a capacity of 250 tons/hr each
capable of handling 20 tons slabs, were installed. Furnace No. 3 was started up in June
1992 and Furnace No. 4 was commissioned in January 1995.
26. In the hot strip mill, an intermediate stand at the entry of the finishing mill was
installed. This was required for production of processing coils with weight up to 20 tons.
Other improvements were made such as: installation of entry and exit edging mills into the
roughing mill, automation of the roughing mill, modifications to the shear with new drum



-32 -                      ANNEX3
type cassette for quick change of blades, new descaling unit, replacement of the existing
5,000 HP motors of the Fl, F2 and F3 finishing stands with new 7,000 HP motors,
automation of the finishing mill with a new electrically driven inter-stand tension control
system and looper-less tension control between the M and Fl stands as well as a new
automatic gauge control system for all seven stands, quick roll change in the M stand and
the finishing mill, roll bending and roll shifting in F4, F5 and F6, new inter-stand cooling
system, new laminar flow strip cooling system, and new down-coilers for 20 ton coils.
27. CMC. Similar to AHMSA component, the project executed in the iron ore mine
reflects the modernization project of CMC. These consisted of the: Renovation of the
pellet plant to increase production capacity to 3.55 million tons per year. The main
refurbishment made was from April 1995 to October 1996 and consisted of the installation
of an additional balling disc, replacement of the green pellet double deck roller screen by a
more efficient one; belt conveyors upgrade; installation of new pellet product classification
system; optimization of coke grinding system; and the complete replacement of
instrumentation and control systems. A magnetic separation system was installed to
recuperate iron units from an old tailing bond located at the Hercules mine providing the
mine with higher reserves. The main process consists of hydraulic mining of tails, a screen
system, low and high intensity magnetic separators and a thickener set from which the
recuperated iron ore is derived to the concentration process in the main facility. This
project was completed in October 1995. A major repair of 39 Km. out of the 295 Km
length of the iron ore slurry pipeline connecting Hercules facilities with AHMSA Pellet
plant was completed in November 1995. This repair consisted in the replacement of
damaged pipes avoiding the risk of leaks and possible AHMSA operations disrupts.
Project Implementation
28. Implementation schedules were developed for each component of the loan with
completion expected in 3 years. However, several factors had a negative impact on the
pace of implementation. Most important was budgetary policy (prior to privatization)of
the Government. As a result, the project suffered a lack of continuity leading to major
delays, scope changes and cost overruns. An example of this is the following comparison
between the budget requested by AHMSA and the approval given by the SPP.
| Budget Figures in US$ million                   l
Year                      Requested by AHMSA             Approved by SPP
1988                      136.2                         8.9
1989                      71.8                          35.9
1990                      145.1                         93.4
1991         -            80.3                          61.7
29. Procurement activities were delayed by scope changes, complexity of the technical bid
evaluation, in particular the Hot Strip Mill (HSM) revamping, and construction contractor
deficiencies. The procurement bidding process was too long and required an extensive
technical equalization. One stage bidding process was selected. The two stage process
should have been used from the beginning for complicated bid packages like the Hot Strip



-33 -                      ANNEX3
Mill. Bank staff should more carefully consider the complexity of the project in order to
specify the proper bid process.
30. Efficiency levels foreseen in the Modernization Program started to be obtained by
1995 once the HSM project was completed. For 1997 it has been scheduled the capacity
goal for the HSM contemplated in the Project (2.25 million tones).
Project Progress Timetable.
31. The key indicators of the hot strip mill project are:
Indicator                 Estimated                 Actual
Invitation to Bid         March 1988                March 1988
Contract                  March 1989               Dec 1989
Installation              August 1990               July 1993
Operation
Step I                    Jan 1991                 May 1994
Step 2                    Jan 1992                 Jan 1995
Commencement of Project
[Technical Assistance     lApril 1988               May 1988
The Achievement of Project Objectives and Results
32. The Hot Strip modernization project was completed in the following steps as shown
in the following table:
Execution Starting
Shutdown  time       Date           Main activities executed
#          (days)
1         27         December 1991 Elimination of site interference.
2          10        July 1993      Main Civil works
3          61        May 1994       Installation and commissioning of main electro-
mechanical equipment for Roughing Mill.
4          20        February 1995  Installation and commissioning of main
automation equipment Finishing Mill area. Coil
Handling System was completed in May 1995.
Management Objectives.
33. The modernization project and the additional investments made after privatization,
allowed the company to obtain significant operational improvements by raising production
volume, reducing operational cost, and technological upgrading. Technical assistance in
operational and technical areas provided by the Consultants and the technical partner led
the company to higher quality and productivity of the staff. AHMSA has now a leading
position in the Mexican market and it has taken advantage of its competitive position to
open markets for its products worldwide. In 1995, AHMSA and its mines (CMC) were
consolidated in order to become a fully integrated steelworks. In 1993, AHMSA returned
to be listed in the Mexican Exchange Stock Market. In 1996, AHMSA issued a $85



-34 -                      ANNEX3
million convertible note and listed in the New York Stock Exchange. Further investments
have also been budgeted to keep pace with market needs and operational improvements in
both the steel operations and mining areas.
Financial Objectives.
34. AHMSA Financial information. Non consolidated
(US$ Millions, current)
Concept                  1987              1991              1996 E
Sales                    788               946               1,122
Net income/loss          5                 (203)             481
Intemal cash             193               61                195
Debt service             208               49                158
EBIT/Sales                16%              N/A               10%
PAT/Sales                N/A               N/A               43%
Current ratio            3.45              1.88              0.75
LT Debt/Equity ratio     115:85           125:75             36:64
Notes: 1996 data estimate of year end based on 9 months actual .
35. The financial rate of return was originally estimated at 32.7% under the assumption of
project completion in 3 years. Due to the delays already mentioned in project completion,
the estimated actual financial rate of return is 16.1%. Incremental operating cash flow in
1996 accounts for $131.6 million of which it is estimated that $42.3 million are due to an
increase in production volume and $89.3 million are due to reduction in production costs.
36. The increase in sales for 1996 mainly reflected a higher volume of the tonnage
shipped. Although net sales increased, EBIT margin was affected due to the decline in
AHMSA's average selling price per ton. This decline is explained mainly by lower selling
prices for steel products in US dollar terms. (In Mexico, the steel prices are generally set
by reference to US dollar denominated internal prices).
Performance of Bank
37. Bank assistance in project preparation, appraisal and implementation was significant
and efficiently supervised. After project approval Bank Supervision Missions visited the
project site every six months until project completion. Progress reports for each mission
were prepared by AHMSA and the project management consultant and discussed
extensively with the Bank. After privatization, the Bank agreed to adapt the procurement
procedures to include items originally not contemplated but requested by AHMSA in
order to facilitate project execution. The changes requested were: incorporation of the
local competitive bidding for contracts with domestic and foreign content but only
domestic contractors bid; financing of construction costs in turnkey contracts. This
accelerated the project implementation and eventually the completion. Also, assistance
was provided for the retroactive financing of maintenance investments made in AHMSA
and CMC after project approval.



-35 -                      ANNEX3
Project Management Performance
38. The technical assistance before and after the privatization process was successfully
adequate, helping the company in solving several differences with the main suppliers, both
in technical and commercial aspects. The assistance as a Task Force group from the
consultant and the technical partner after the privatization helped in the successfully
completion of the projects and the achievement of the performance guarantees.
Operation Status
39. AHMSA. From the inception of the Modernization Plan through 1996, the Company
has invested $618.4 million and has achieved the following goals under the Modernization
Plan at its Monclova steelmaking facilities:
Efficiency indicator       Unit                  1993      1995     1996 E
Liquid steel production (Ls)   Million tons/year  2.58     3.1      3.40
Finished steel production (Fs) Million tons/year  2.0      2.41     2.73
Continuous casting slab ratio  %                 76.5      83.3     89.3
Yield (Fs tons/Ls tons)   l_%                    75.4      77.6     80.6
Productivity               Man-hour/ton of Ls    9.59*    7.88      7.40
Coke rate                 Kgs. coke/ton of iron    533*   496       472
Energy consumption         Gigacalories/ton of Ls   7.0    7.0      6.5
First quality products    _%                     91.7      93.6     94.8
Notes: * data from 1991. 1996E data estimated for fill year based on 9 months actual performance.
Energy and First Quality products data includes subsidiary companies.
40. Improvements in product quality led to an ISO 9002 certification from International
Standards Organization for the Company's blast furnaces, steelmaking, hot rolling and
cold rolling facilities and coke plants, pellet plant and sinter plant. In connection with the
completion of the Modernization Plan, the Company has budgeted an additional amount
for 1997 and 1998 for projects that principally involve the production of higher value-
added products. Specifically, remaining outlays are for (i) ongoing renovations to one of
the coke plants, (ii) improving blast furnace operations, (iii) upgrading the cold mill plants
and (iv) installing a painting plant. Additional capital investments have been envisioned to
produce more value added steel products, and further reduce operational cost.
41. 3etween 1992 and 1996 AHMSA has made investments in environmental projects,
including the renovation of two pickling lines in its steel mills to eliminate the discharge of
sulfuric acid. AHMSA has budgeted investments from 1997 to 1998 for environmental
projects, including projects required to comply with the Environmental Agreement and
existing Mexican environmental laws and otherwise to address environmental concerns.
42. CMC. From the inception of the Modernization Plan through 1996, CMC has invested
$207.6 million and has achieved the following goals under the Modernization Plan in the
iron ore mines.



- 36 -                     ANNEX3
Iron Ore Concentrate Productio
(millions of tons)          1991   1992   1993    1994    1995    1996 E
4NOSA. Hercules Unit        2.15    2.61   3.02    3.29    3.52    3.63
La Perla                    0.79    -        -       -
Total                       2.94    2.61    3.02    3.29   13.52    3.63
Note: Annualized based on first nine months actual.
Project Sustainability
43. The project supported AHMSA's post-privatization strategy which is to secure and
expand its leadership position in Mexico flat product market and increase its margins by
investing in its facilities and employees, upgrading its product quality and product mix and
enlarging its customer base and further reducing the Company's labor and raw material
costs per ton of finished steel. Given the operational success of AHMSA prospects for
project sustainability are very strong.
Project Expenditure
44. Total investment in AHMSA and CMC amounted to $825.0 million as compared with
$664.1 million originally estimated. AHMSA and CMC components of investment are
$618.4 million and $207.6 million, respectively. SIDERMEX investment in the long term
strategy was US$1.0 million.
45. Investments made in AHMSA in relation to the original scope of the modernization
plan amounted to $360.8 million. After privatization, AHNMSA made additional
investments that were not part of the previous modernization plan. It consisted mainly of:
$113.7 nmillion in steelmaking and continuous casting, $17.7 million for a new tin free steel
line; $32.8 million for the rehabilitation of coke plant # 1; $40.7 million for the revamping
of blast furnace # 5; $30.1 million for the installation of a new hydrochloric (HCL) acid
pickling line and the reconversion of the previous sulfuric acid pickling line to HCL acid
pickling line with a HCL regeneration plant (it eliminated an old environmental problem);
and, $22.6 million in other minor modernization investments.
46. Main investments made in CMC were: (i)$95.8 million in the iron ore mines, and (ii)
$50 million in the coal mines. In the iron ore area the main investments consisted of: $13.3
million for the renovation of a pellet plant, $13.7 million for the installation of a new
magnetic separation unit in the Hercules mine, $4.3 million for the replacement of 39 of
the 295 kilometers slurry pipe from Hercules mine to AHMSA steelworks, $7.8 million for
the capacity increase of existing concentration facilities in the Hercules mine, $28.7.0
million for the replacement of mining mobile equipment, and $28.0 million in various other
modernization items. In the coal mines, investments made consisted mainly in: $36.5
million for the replacement of underground mining equipment, and $13.5 million the
refurbishment of the coal washery plant at Palau.
Conclusion
47.   The steel sector reform and the rehabilitation program of the steel companies were
successful. The Mexican economy is now open. The steel and raw materials companies



-37 -                      ANNEX3
have been modernized. AHMSA and CMC are operating successfully in a competitive
domestic and export market environment. Steel consuming industries are able to purchase
high quality steel products at low cost. In fact, AHMSA, which has received awards for
quality, has also been ranked as one of the world lowest cost steel producer.
PART C. PRIVATE SECTOR INVESTMENT COMPONENT
48. The part of the Project was canceled at the request of HYLSA due to its participation
in the privatization process. After losing in its bid for the three privatization packages,
HYLSA responded by shifting its competitive strategy and investing vigorously to
streamline its operations. They invested $400 million in a new state-of-the-art thin slab
casting facility to make high quality sheet and also invested to improve the efficiency of
the old flat products plant.
49. HYLSA has completed its modernization program without the financial assistance of
the World Bank, but benefited from the overall work by the World Bank in the reform of
the steel sector.
50. HYLSA is also competing successfully in the domestic and export steel market.









IMAGING
Report No.:         16856
i Type:      ICR



