Page  1
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 2916-ME
                             Project Agreement
                   (Steel Sector Restructuring Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                            HYLSA, S.A. DE C.V.
                           Dated  March 15, 1988
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 2916-ME
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
          AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HYLSA, S.A. DE C.V. (HYLSA).
          WHEREAS     (A)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement,  but only on condition that
HYLSA agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Bank as  are set forth
in this Agreement;
          (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and HYLSA, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to HYLSA on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
          WHEREAS HYLSA,  in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
          NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
          Section 1.01.     Unless the context otherwise requires,  the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions  (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
          Section 2.01.     (a)   HYLSA declares  its commitment to  the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
with  due  diligence  and efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
administrative,  financial,  engineering and steel industry practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,  the funds,
facilities,  services and other resources required for Part C of the
Project.
          (b)   Within ninety days after the first disbursement under Part
C of the Project, HYLSA shall, for the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project,  designate,  and thereafter maintain until Project completion,  a
Project manager having experience satisfactory to the Bank, and employ
consultants to assist such Project Manager.
          Section 2.02.     Except as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants'  services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
          Section 2.03.     HYLSA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance,  use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports,  maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of this Agreement and Part C of the Project.
          Section 2.04.     HYLSA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the HYLSA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  HYLSA shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending,  abrogating, assigning or waiving the HYLSA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof
          Section 2.05.     (a)   HYLSA shall, at the request of the Bank
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the HYLSA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
          (b)   HYLSA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by HYLSA of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the HYLSA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
          Section 2.06.     HYLSA shall (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth a program of
specific measures and actions designed to achieve improvements in
productivity and product quality,  and reductions in costs; (b)  implement
and adjust such action- plan in a manner and according to a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank and HYLSA; and (c) within six months after the
first disbursement under Part C of the Project,  and annually thereafter,
until completion of the Project,  exchange views with eke Bank on the
implementation of such action plan.
          Section 2.07.     HYLSA shall take all reasonable measures to
ensure that the execution of Part C of the Project,  and the operation of
Page  3
the plants and other facilities pertaining
of the Project, is carried out with due regard to ecological and
environmental  factors,  including air  and water pollution standards,  all
according to the laws and regulations of the Guarantor.
                                ARTICLE lII
                    Management and Operations of HYLSA
          Section 3.01.     HYLSA shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
industrial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management.
          Section 3.02.     HYLSA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant,  machinery,  equipment and other property,  and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals  thereof,
all  in accordance with sound engineering, financial and industrial
practices.
          Section 3.03.     HYLSA shall  take out. and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
          Section 4.01.     (a)   HYLSA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations  and financial condition,  including separate accounts reflecting
the resources and expenditures related to Part C of the Project.
          (b)   HYLSA shall:
               (i)    have the accounts referred to in (a)  above and
                      financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
                      income and expenses and related statements)  for each
                      fiscal year audited,  in accordance with generally
                      accepted  auditing  standards  and procedures
                      consistently applied, by independent and qualified
                      auditors;
              (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                      case not later than six months after the end of each
                      such year:  (A)  a certified copy of its financial
                      statements for such year as so audited, and (B)  a
                      certified copy of the report of such audit by said
                      auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                      shall have reasonably requested and
             (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                      said accounts and financial statements, as well as
                      the audit thereof, and said records, as the Bank
                      shall from time to time reasonably request.
          (c)   For all expenditures in carrying out Part C of the Project
and with respect to which withdrawals  from the Loan Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, HYLSA shall:
               (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                      with paragraph  (a)  of this  Section,  separate
                      records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
              (ii)    retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
                      year after the Bank has received the audit report for
                      the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                      Loan Account was made,  all  records (contracts,
                      orders,  invoices, bills,  receipts and other
                      documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  4
             (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                      records; and
              (iv)    ensure that such separate accounts are included in
                      the audits referred to in paragraph (b)  of this
                      Section and that the report thereof contains,  in
                      respect of such separate .accounts,  a separate
                      opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
                      of  the  Loan  withdrawn  in  respect  of  such
                      expenditures were used for the purposes for which
                      they were provided.
          Section 4.02.     HYLSA shall  take all action as  shall be
required to: (a) formulate with its creditors a debt restructuring
plan for the purpose of rescheduling and/or restructuring its
currently outstanding debt  and taking into account HYLSA's
financing plan for Part C of the Project, and (b) formalize one or
more agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with such creditors for
purposes of implementing such debt restructuring plan and
taking into account HYLSA's financing plan for project.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
          Section 5.01.     This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
          Section 5.02.     This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of HYLSA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify HYLSA thereof.
          Section 5.03.     All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
          Section 6.01.     Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when
it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,  telegram,
cable, telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
          For the Bank:
                International Bank for
                      Reconstruction and Development
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America
                Cable address:                Telex:
                      INTBAFRAD                   440098 (ITT)
                      Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA) or
                                                   64145 (WUI)
          For HYLSA:
                HYLSA, S.A. de C.V.
Page  5
                Guerrero y Munich
                San Nicolas de los Garza, N.L.
                Mexico
                                              Telex:
                                                    038 2866
                                                    038 2545
          Section 6.02.     Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of HYLSA, may be taken or executed by the Director General or such
other person or persons as the Director General shall designate in writing,
and HYLSA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
          Section 6.03.     This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts,  each of which shall be  an original,  and all collectively
but one instrument.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                            Regional Vice President
                                  Latin America and the Caribbean
                                  HYLSA, S.A. DE C.V.
                                  By /s/ Roberto Garza Delgado
                                              Authorized  Representative
