Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2916 ME
               (Steel Sector Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                 CARBON Y MINERALES COAHUILA, S.A.
                       Dated March 15, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2916 ME
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March  15,  1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  CARBON  Y
MINERALES COAHUILA, S.A. (CMC).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  (the  Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies  equivalent  to  four  hundred  million dollars
($400,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition  that CMC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  CMC,  a  portion  of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will be made available
to CMC on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS CMC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  CMC   declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part B.2 of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,   engineering  and  steel
industry practices, and shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for Part B.2 of the Project.
     (b)  CMC shall, for the purpose  of  carrying out Part B.2 of
the Project,  establish,  and  thereafter  maintain,  in  a manner
satisfactory to the  Bank,  a  project  management unit, including
employing consultants, as  and  when  appropriate,  to assist such
unit.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. CMC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of  this and Part B.2 of the
Project.
     Section 2.04.  CMC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the CMC Subsidiary Loan  Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, CMC shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving  the  CMC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  CMC  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and under the  CMC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  CMC shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of Loan, or the
performance by CMC  of  its  obligations  under this Agreement and
under the CMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. CMC shall (a)  prepare  and furnish to the Bank
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth its mining
program and specific  measures  and  actions  designed to carry it
out, including the achievement of improvements in productivity and
reductions in  operating  costs,  as  well  as  the completion and
implementation of a  standard  costing  system;  (b) implement and
adjust such action plan in  a  manner and according to a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank and CMC;  and (c) within six months after
Page  3
the first disbursement under Part B.2 of the Project, and annually
thereafter, until completion of  the  Project, exchange views with
the Bank on the implementation of such action plan.
     Section 2.07.  CMC  shall  take  all  reasonable  measures to
ensure that the execution  of  Part  B.2  of  the Project, and the
operation  of  the  plants  and  other  facilities  pertaining  to
Part B.2  of  the  Project,  is  carried  out  with  due regard to
ecological and  environmental  factors,  including  air  and water
pollution standards and mine  safety  standards, all in accordance
with the Guarantor's laws and regulations.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of CMC
     Section 3.01. CMC shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
industrial  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and
experienced management.
     Section 3.02. CMC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
industrial practices.
     Section 3.03. CMC shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. CMC shall carry out a plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for: (i) a restructuring  and recapitalization of its assets
and  liabilities,   including   shareholders'   equity   and  debt
obligations;  and   (ii)   an   internal   reorganization  of  its
operational   and   administrative    functions,   including   its
reorganization for the purpose of  acting as a holding company for
its mining operations.
     Section 3.05. CMC shall permit  the  Bank and the Borrower to
have access to and review, annually  at the request of the Bank or
the  Borrower,  as  the  case  may  be,  all  then  existing sales
agreements  between  CMC  and  SIDERMEX  or  between  CMC  and any
subsidiary of SIDERMEX.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  CMC  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its  operations  and   financial   condition,  including  separate
accounts reflecting the resources and expenditures related to Part
B.2 of the Project.
     (b)  CMC shall:
          (i)  have the  accounts  referred  to  in  (a) above and
               financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and  expenses  and  related  statements) for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               generally   accepted    auditing    standards   and
               procedures consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)  a  certified  copy  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) a  certified  copy  of  the  report of such
               audit by said auditors  of  such  scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
Page  4
               and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said accounts  and financial statements, as
               well as the audit thereof, and said records, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  in  carrying  out  Part B.2 of the
Project and  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from  the Loan
Account were made on the  basis  of statements of expenditure, CMC
shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the audits referred  to  in  paragraph  (b) of this
               Section and that  the  report  thereof contains, in
               respect  of  such  separate  accounts,  a  separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
     Section 4.02. CMC shall  fully  coordinate and cooperate with
SIDERMEX in the asset revaluation and balance sheet adjustment and
updating to be undertaken by  SIDERMEX pursuant to Section 4.02 of
the SIDERMEX Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of CMC thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify CMC thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  5
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For CMC:
          Carb‡n y Minerales Coahuila, S.A.
          Zaragoza 1000
          Piso Mezzanine
          Monterrey N.L.
          Mexico, C.P. 64000
                                            Telex:
                                               38 20 24 MI NO ME
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  CMC,  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
Director General or such other  person  or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing,  and  CMC shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    CARBON Y MINERALES COAHUILA, S.A.
                    By /s/ Hugo Garc—a de Anda
                                         Authorized Representative
