Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2916 ME
               (Steel Sector Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               ALTOS HORNOS DE MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V.
                       Dated March 15, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2916 ME
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March  15,  1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the  Bank) and ALTOS HORNOS DE
MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. (AHMSA).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  (the  Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent  to  four  hundred  million  dollars
($400,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only  on  condition  that  AHMSA agree to undertake
such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and AHMSA,  a  portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will be made available
to AHMSA on the terms and  conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS AHMSA, in consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  AHMSA  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part B.1 of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,   engineering  and  steel
industry practices, and shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for Part B.1 of the Project.
     (b)  Within ninety days  after  the  first disbursement under
Part B.1 of the Project, AHMSA  shall, for the purpose of carrying
out Part B.1 of  the  Project,  designate, and thereafter maintain
until Project  completion,  a  Project  manager  having experience
satisfactory to the Bank,  and  employ  consultants to assist such
Project Manager.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  AHMSA  shall  carry  out  the  obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  in  respect of this Agreement
and Part B.1 of the Project.
     Section 2.04. AHMSA  shall  duly  perform all its obligations
under the AHMSA  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Bank
shall otherwise agree,  AHMSA  shall  not  take  or  concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  AHMSA  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) AHMSA  shall,  at  the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and under the AHMSA  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  AHMSA shall promptly  inform  the  Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by AHMSA  of  its obligations under this Agreement
and under the AHMSA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. AHMSA shall (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank
an action plan, satisfactory to  the Bank, setting forth a program
of specific measures and  actions designed to achieve improvements
in productivity  and  product  quality,  and  reductions in energy
consumption and other costs; (b)  implement and adjust such action
Page  3
plan in a manner and according  to a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank  and  AHMSA;  and  (c)   within  6  months  after  the  first
disbursement  under  Part  B.1   of   the  Project,  and  annually
thereafter, until completion of  the  Project, exchange views with
the Bank on the implementation of such action plan.
     Section 2.07. AHMSA  shall  take  all  reasonable measures to
ensure that the execution  of  Part  B.1  of  the Project, and the
operation  of  the  plants  and  other  facilities  pertaining  to
Part B.1  of  the  Project,  is  carried  out  with  due regard to
ecological and  environmental  factors,  including  air  and water
pollution standards, all in  accordance  with the Guarantor's laws
and regulations.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of AHMSA
     Section 3.01. AHMSA shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
industrial  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and
experienced management.
     Section 3.02. AHMSA shall  at  all times operate and maintain
its plant,  machinery,  equipment  and  other  property,  and from
time to time, promptly as  needed,  make all necessary repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and industrial practices.
     Section  3.03.  AHMSA  shall   take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers  insurance  against  such  risks  and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) AHMSA  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its  operations  and   financial   condition,  including  separate
accounts reflecting the resources and expenditures related to Part
B.1 of the Project.
     (b)  AHMSA shall:
          (i)  have the  accounts  referred  to  in  (a) above and
               financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and  expenses  and  related  statements) for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               generally   accepted    auditing    standards   and
               procedures consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)  a  certified  copy  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) a  certified  copy  of  the  report of such
               audit by said auditors  of  such  scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
               and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said accounts  and financial statements, as
               well as the audit thereof, and said records, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  in  carrying  out  Part B.1 of the
Project and  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from  the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, AHMSA
shall:
Page  4
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the audits referred  to  in  paragraph  (b) of this
               Section and that  the  report  thereof contains, in
               respect  of  such  separate  accounts,  a  separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
     Section 4.02. AHMSA shall fully coordinate and cooperate with
SIDERMEX in the asset revaluation  and balance sheet adjustment to
be undertaken by SIDERMEX pursuant to Section 4.02 of the SIDERMEX
Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of AHMSA thereunder shall  terminate  on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify AHMSA thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
Page  5
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For AHMSA:
          Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
          Prol. Juarez s/n
          Monclova, Coahuila 25770
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                               39 904
                                               39 909
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  AHMSA,  may  be  taken  or executed by the
Director General or such other  person  or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and AHMSA shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    ALTOS HORNOS DE MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V.
                    By /s/ Joså Arango Rojas
                                         Authorized Representative
