Page  1
                                                February 4, 1990
Dr. Pedro Aspe Armella
Minister of Finance
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio, Mariano, 4o Piso
06066 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico.
Mr. Juan Jose Paramo
Director General
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza NAFINSA
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre Sur, 9o.  Piso
CP 01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico.
Dear Sirs:
            Re:   Loan No. 2916-ME (Steel Sector Restructuring
                  Project) - Amendment
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated March 15, 1988 for
the above-referred Loan (the "Loan Agreement") between International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), and to the Guarantee Agreement of
even date therewith between the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) and the Bank ("the Guarantee Agreement").
      In response to your request and the discussions between our
respective representatives, we are pleased to inform you that the
Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
agreement for the purpose of setting aside a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement for the
implementation of a debt reduction plan of the Guarantor.
      Accordingly, the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement as follows:
I.    Loan Agreement
      A.    Preamble
            (i)   A new paragraph (B) is added after paragraph (A)
to read as follows:
                  "(B) it is contemplated that the Guarantor may
                  require assistance from the Bank in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan (as
                  hereinafter defined);".
            (ii)  Former paragraphs (B) and (C) are relettered as
                  "(C)" and "(D)" respectively.
      B.    Section 1.02
            (i)   A new paragraph (aa) is added after paragraph (z)
to read as follows:
            "(aa) "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the
            Guarantor submitted to the Bank for partial funding
            under this Agreement to reduce the Guarantor's principal
            payments on its external loans from non-official
            creditors;"
Page  2
            (ii)  Former paragraphs (aa) and (bb) are relettered as
"(bb)" and "(cc)" respectively.
      C.    Article III
            (i)   A new Section 3.05 is added after Section 3.04 to
read as follows:
            "Section 3.05. Subject to agreement by the Borrower, the
            Guarantor and the Bank on the terms and conditions to be
            applied in such case, the Borrower may use a portion of
            the proceeds of the Loan as provided in Schedule 1 to
            this Agreement for the implementation of a Debt
            Reduction Plan under Part C of the Project described in
            Schedule 2 to this Agreement."
      D.    Schedule 1
            (i)   Category 1 of the table in paragraph 1 is amended
to read as follows:
                        Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated          % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditures
        Category        Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
"(1) Imported goods     50,000,000              100% of foreign
     under Part A                               expenditures"
     of the Project
            (ii)  A new category (5) is added to the table in
paragraph 1 to read as follows:
                        Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated          % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditures
        Category        Dollar Equivalent)            to be Financed
"(5) Debt Reduction     50,000,000              To be agreed by
      Plan                                      the Bank, the
                                                Guarantor and the
                                                Borrower, subject
                                                to paragraph 7
                                                below"
            (iii) Paragraph 5 (a) is amended by deleting the first
word "No" and substituting the following therefor:
            "Subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 hereunder,
            no".
            (iv)  New paragraphs 7 and 8 are added to read as
follows:
            "7. If an agreement by the Bank, the Guarantor and the
            Borrower for the use of the portion of the proceeds of
            the Loan designated for the implementation of the Debt
            Reduction Plan shall not have been entered into by May
            31, 1990 or such later date as approved by the Bank,
            then the amount of $50,000,000 under Category 5 shall,
            at the request of the Borrower and the Guarantor, be
            reallocated to Category 1 for Part A of the Project.
            8. The provisions of this Schedule are without prejudice
            to the provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan
            Agreement."
      E.    Schedule 2
Page  3
            (i)   The objectives stated in the first paragraph are
amended by deleting the word "and" at the end of clause (c) thereof,
by deleting the period at the end of the paragraph and substituting
the following therefor:
                  ";and (e) if so determined under Section 3.05 of
                  this Agreement, to assist the Guarantor in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan."
            (ii)  A new Part D of the Project is added after Part C
to read as follows:
                  "Part D: Debt Reduction Plan
                  Assistance to the Guarantor in the implementation
                  of a Debt Reduction Plan which, in the judgment
                  of the Guarantor and of the Bank, shall meet the
                  requirements of the Bank's support of debt
                  reduction."
II.   Guarantee Agreement
      A.    Preamble
            (i)   A new paragraph (B) is added after paragraph (A)
to read as follows:
                  "(B) it is contemplated that the Guarantor may
                  require assistance from the Bank in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan; and"
            (ii)  Former paragraphs (B) and (C) are relettered as
"(C)" and "(D)" respectively.
      B.    Article III
            (i)   A new Section 3.07 is added after Section 3.06 to
read as follows:
                  "Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall, if so
                  determined under Section 3.05 of the Loan
                  Agreement, carry out Part D of the Project with
                  due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                  with appropriate commercial, administrative and
                  financial practices and shall provide, promptly
                  as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                  other resources required for the Project."
            (ii)  A new Section 3.08 is added after Section 3.07 to
read as follows:
                  "Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall take all
                  actions as shall be required for implementing the
                  provisions under Section 3.05 of the Loan
                  Agreement."
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This
Amendment may be executed in three counterparts, each of which shall
be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully
executed original to us.  This amendment will be effective as of the
date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed
original of this Amendment.
                         Very truly yours,
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  4
                      By /s/S. Shahid Husain
                          Vice President
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date:  February 4, 1990
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date:  February 4, 1990
