Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2916 ME
               (Steel Sector Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                       Dated March 15, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2916 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March  15,  1988  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS  (A)  United  Mexican  States  (the  Guarantor),  has
declared its commitment to the  program of actions, objectives and
policies described in the Schedule  to the Guarantee Agreement (as
that  term  is  defined   hereinafter)  and  designed  to  achieve
adjustments of the  Guarantor's  steel  sector (hereinafter called
the Steel Sector  Reform  Program),  and  has requested assistance
from the Bank in  the  financing  of imports and services required
during the execution of the Steel Sector Reform Program;
     (B)  the Borrower and the  Guarantor having been satisfied as
to the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project;
Page  2
     (C)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such  other obligations as are set forth
in the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "AHMSA" means Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.;
     (b)  "AHMSA Action Plan" means the action plan referred to in
Section 2.06 of the AHMSA Project Agreement;
     (c)  "AHMSA Project Agreement"  means  the Project Agreement,
of even date herewith, between the Bank and AHMSA, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental thereto;
     (d)  "AHMSA Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "CMC" means, collectively,  Carbon y Minerales Coahuila,
S.A. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries;
     (f)  "CMC Action Plan" means  the  action plan referred to in
Section 2.06 of the CMC Project Agreement;
     (g)  "CMC Project Agreement" means  the Project Agreement, of
even date herewith, between the Bank  and  CMC, as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental thereto;
     (h)  "CMC  Project   Management   Unit"   means  the  project
management unit referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the CMC Project
Agreement;
     (i)  "CMC  Reorganization   and   Restructuring"   means  the
reorganization referred to  in  Section  3.04  of  the CMC Project
Agreement;
     (j)  "CMC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "HYLSA" means HYLSA, S.A. de C.V.;
     (l)  "HYLSA Action Plan" means the action plan referred to in
Section 2.06 of the HYLSA Project Agreement;
     (m)  "HYLSA Debt Restructuring Agreement" means collectively,
the agreements  referred  to  in  Section  4.02  (b)  of the HYLSA
Project Agreement;
     (n)  "HYLSA Project Agreement"  means  the Project Agreement,
Page  3
of even date herewith, between the Bank and HYLSA, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental thereto;
     (o)  "HYLSA Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iv) of this Agreement;
     (p)  "Price  Liberalization  Program"  means  the Guarantor's
program for removing price  controls  in  the steel sector, as set
forth in  paragraph  4,  entitled  "Establecimiento  de  una nueva
politica de precios,"  of  the  Lineamientos  De  Pol—tica Para La
Industria  SiderÎrgica  Paraestatal,   as   such  paragraph  4  is
supplemented  and  amended  by  letter  dated  February  7,  1988,
referred to  in  paragraph  1  of  the  Schedule  to the Guarantee
Agreement;
     (q)  "SECOFI" means the Secretar—a  de  Comercio y de Fomento
Industrial of the Guarantor;
     (r)  "SEMIP"  means  the  Secretar—a   de  Energ—a,  Minas  e
Industria Paraestatal of the Guarantor;
     (s)  "SIDERMEX"  means  SIDERMEX,  S.A.  de  C.V.,  a company
wholly-owned by the Guarantor for  the purpose of coordinating the
state-owned entities of Mexico's steel sector, including AHMSA and
CMC, and to be converted into  a holding company owning all of the
stock of such entities;
     (t)  "SIDERMEX   Convenio"   means    the   Convenio,   dated
September 11, 1986, between  the Guarantor and SIDERMEX, providing
for a comprehensive  restructuring  program  for  SIDERMEX and its
subsidiaries;
     (u)  "SIDERMEX   Project   Agreement"   means   the   Project
Agreement, of even date  herewith,  between the Bank and SIDERMEX,
as the same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto;
     (v)  "SIDERMEX Restructuring" means the restructuring program
for SIDERMEX and  its  subsidiaries  provided  for in the SIDERMEX
Convenio;
     (w)  "SIDERMEX  Strategic  Plan"  means  a  strategy  for the
future development of the  Guarantor's  public steel sector, based
in part on the  study  being  carried  out for SIDERMEX by British
Steel  Corporation  Overseas   Services,   pursuant  to  Terms  of
Reference, dated March 30, 1987;
     (x)  "SIDERMEX Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
     (y)  "SITC"   means   the    Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (z)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (aa) "Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement"   means  individually  or
collectively, any one or  more  of  the subsidiary loan agreements
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (bb) "Steel Trade Policy Program" means the tariff adjustment
program and the elimination of official reference prices for steel
products, as set  forth  in  paragraph 3, entitled "Liberalizacion
del Comercio Exterior", of  the  Lineamientos  De Pol—tica Para La
Industria SiderÎrgica Paraestatal, as  supplemented and amended by
letter dated February 7, 1988,  referred  to in paragraph 1 of the
Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  4
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four hundred million
dollars ($400,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement  between  the Bank and the Borrower, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank  shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule  2  to  this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                    Transfer of Loan Proceeds;
                     Execution of the Project
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The  Borrower  shall enter into contractual
arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  with  the  Guarantor,
Page  5
providing, inter alia, for  (i)  the  transfer to the Guarantor of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated  to  Part A of the Project; and
(ii) the transfer by the  Guarantor  to the Borrower of such funds
as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges  on such portion of the Loan
allocated to Part A of the Project.
     (b)  The   Borrower   shall   enter   into   subsidiary  loan
agreements, satisfactory to the  Bank  and containing, inter alia,
the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Schedule  6  to  this
Agreement, with:
          (i)  AHMSA, providing, inter  alia,  for the transfer to
               AHMSA of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated to
               Part B.1 of  the  Project  and  for the transfer by
               AHMSA to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower
               shall be required to pay  to the Bank on account of
               principal,  interest  and  other  charges  on  that
               portion of the Loan;
         (ii)  CMC,  providing,  inter   alia,  for  the  transfer
               to CMC of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan allocated to
               Part B.2 of  the  Project  and  for the transfer by
               CMC to the Borrower  of  such funds as the Borrower
               shall be required to pay  to the Bank on account of
               principal,  interest  and  other  charges  on  that
               portion of the Loan;
        (iii)  SIDERMEX, providing, inter  alia,  for the transfer
               to SIDERMEX of the  proceeds  of the Loan allocated
               to Part B.3 of the  Project and for the transfer by
               SIDERMEX to  the  Borrower  of  such  funds  as the
               Borrower shall be required  to  pay  to the Bank on
               account of principal, interest and other charges on
               that portion of the Loan; and
         (iv)  HYLSA, providing, inter  alia,  for the transfer to
               HYLSA of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated to
               Part C  of  the  Project  and  for  the transfer by
               HYLSA to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower
               shall be required to pay  to the Bank on account of
               principal,  interest  and  other  charges  on  that
               portion of the Loan.
     (c)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change  or  fail  to  enforce  any  provision of (i) the
contractual arrangements referred to  in  subparagraph (a) of this
Section 3.01, or (ii)  the  Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to
in sub-paragraph (b) of this Section 3.01.
     Section 3.02. Until  Project  completion,  the Borrower shall
take or cause to be  taken  all  measures necessary to ensure that
private domestic companies  which  are  primary steel producers or
steel re-rollers are provided access  to credit for the purpose of
financing  feasibility  and  engineering   studies  in  order  to:
(a) assist them  in  exploiting  market opportunities; (b) prepare
proposals to obtain funding  from existing investment credit lines
or  other  financing  sources;   and  (c)  prepare  diagnoses  and
implement  programs  to   restructure,  rehabilitate  and  improve
operations, including management development and staff training.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods  and  consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and  the Borrower agree that the obli-
gations set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to insu-
rance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition)  in  respect  of the
Project shall be carried out (i)  by  AHMSA in respect of Part B.1
Page  6
of the Project; (ii) by CMC in respect of Part B.2 of the Project;
(iii) by SIDERMEX  in  respect  of  Part  B.3  of the Project; and
(iv) by HYLSA in respect of Part C of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records and  accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance  with  sound   accounting  practices,  the  operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred to in (a) above for each
               fiscal year  audited  in  accordance with generally
               accepted   auditing    standards   and   procedures
               consistently applied, by  independent and qualified
               auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said accounts, and  the audit thereof, and said
               records,  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures under  Part  A  of the Project with
respect to which withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
     Section  4.02.  The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  have  the Special
Account  audited,  for  each   fiscal  year,  in  accordance  with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
independent and qualified auditors;  (ii)  furnish  to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year  a  certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of  such  scope  and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably  requested;  (iii)  furnish to the Bank
monthly  certified  statements   of   the   Special  Account;  and
(iv) furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information concerning the
Special Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
Page  7
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions,  the  following   additional   events  are  specified;
provided, however, that if any  event referred to in paragraph (a)
or (c) of this Section shall  have occurred and be continuing, the
suspension of the Borrower's  right  to  make withdrawals from the
Loan Account may be limited  to  the  amounts relent to the entity
concerned by such event:
     (a)  AHMSA, CMC,  SIDERMEX  or  HYLSA  shall  have  failed to
perform  any  of  their   obligations   under  the  AHMSA  Project
Agreement,  the  CMC  Project   Agreement,  the  SIDERMEX  Project
Agreement or the HYLSA Project Agreement;
     (b)  a  situation  shall  have  arisen  which  shall  make it
improbable that the Project,  or  a significant part thereof, will
be carried out; and
     (c)  the  SIDERMEX   Convenio   shall   have   been  amended,
suspended, abrogated, modified or  waived  so as to materially and
adversely affect the SIDERMEX Restructuring.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any of the events  specified  in sub-paragraphs (a) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty (60) days.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely
that the Borrower and  the  Guarantor  shall have entered into the
contractual arrangements referred to  in  Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Bank, namely,  that  (i) the AHMSA Project Agreement,
the CMC Project Agreement, the  SIDERMEX Project Agreement and the
HYLSA Project Agreement, respectively, have been executed and duly
authorized by, and are legally  binding upon, AHMSA, CMC, SIDERMEX
and  HYLSA,   respectively,   and   that   (ii)   the  contractual
arrangements referred to in  Section  3.01  (a) of this Agreement,
have been executed and duly  authorized by and are legally binding
upon the  parties  thereto  in  accordance  with  their respective
terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Director  Internacional  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
Page  8
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza Nafinsa, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          Torre Sur 9© Piso
          CP 01020 Mexico DF
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               NAFIN                             NAFIME 1775765
               Mexico City                       Mexico City
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                    By /s/ Eduardo Amerena
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Eligible Imports          100,000,000      100% of foreign
     under Part A of                            expenditures
     the Project
(2)  Equipment and                              100% of foreign
     spare parts:                               expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
Page  9
     (a)  under Part B.1       127,000,000
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part B.2        36,000,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part C          57,500,000
          of the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Technical                                  100%
     assistance,
     including
     consultants'
     services and
     training
     (a)  under Part B.1        15,000,000
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part B.2         3,000,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part B.3         3,000,000
          of the Project
     (d)  under Part C           3,500,000
          of the Project
(4)  Unallocated
     (a)  under Part B.1        28,000,000
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part B.2        11,000,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part B.3         2,000,000
          of the Project
     (d)  under Part C          14,000,000
          of the Project
                               ___________
     TOTAL                     400,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor; and
     (c)  the term "Eligible Imports"  means any goods included in
the following SITC groups or sub-groups:
   Division     Group     Sub-group      Description of Items
                  281       all          Iron ore and con-
                                         centrates
                            522.54       Iron oxides and
Page  10
                                         hydroxides
                            321.21       Bituminous coal, not
                                         agglomerated
                  325       all          Coke and Semi-coke
                                         (including char)
                                         of coal
                            273.3        Sands, natural, of
                                         all kinds
                            278.2        Clays and other
                                         refractory materials
                            334.4        Fuel oils
                            662.3        Refractory bricks and
                                         and other refractory
                                         materials
                              - 16 -
   Division     Group     Sub-group      Description of Items
                            663.7        Refractory ceramic goods
                                         (e.g. retorts, crucible,
                                         muffles, nozzles, plugs,
supports, cupels, tubes,
                                         pipes, sheats and rods)
                  282       all          Ferrous waste and scrap
      67          all       all          Iron and steel
                            691.1        Structures and parts of
                                         structures of iron or steel
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made  for  expenditures  incurred  prior to the
date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  (i)  withdrawals,  in an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $20,000,000, may
be made under Category (1) in  the  table in paragraph 1 above, on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after November 1,  1987;  and  (ii)  withdrawals,  in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the  equivalent  of  $30,000,000, may be made
under Categories (2) and (3) in the table in paragraph 1 above, on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after February 1, 1987;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures  incurred in carrying out
Part B.1 of  the  Project,  unless  the  Bank  shall have received
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that:
          (i)  the AHMSA  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  between the
               Borrower and AHMSA has been signed; and
         (ii)  AHMSA has adopted  and  put  into  effect the AHMSA
               Action Plan;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures  incurred in carrying out
Part B.2 of  the  Project,  unless  the  Bank  shall have received
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that:
          (i)  the  CMC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  between  the
               Borrower and CMC has been signed;
         (ii)  CMC has adopted and put  into effect the CMC Action
               Plan;
Page  11
        (iii)  CMC   has    substantially    completed   the   CMC
               Reorganization and Restructuring; and
         (iv)  CMC has  established  and  staffed  the CMC Project
               Management Unit;
     (d)  payments made for expenditures  incurred in carrying out
Part B.3 of  the  Project,  unless  the  Bank  shall have received
evidence, satisfactory to the  Bank,  that the SIDERMEX Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower  and SIDERMEX has been signed;
and
     (e)  payments made for expenditures  incurred in carrying out
Part C  of  the  Project,  unless  the  Bank  shall  have received
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that:
          (i)  the HYLSA  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  between the
               Borrower and HYLSA has been signed;
         (ii)  the  HYLSA  Debt  Restructuring  Agreement  between
               HYLSA and its creditors has been formalized; and
        (iii)  HYLSA has adopted  and  put  into  effect the HYLSA
               Action Plan.
4.   No withdrawals shall be  made  in  respect of Category (1) in
paragraph 1 above for:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (b)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
     (c)  expenditures in the  currency  of  the  Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied  from  the  territory of the Guarantor;
and
     (d)  any expenditures, unless  the  Bank  shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of  views  as  described  in Section 3.06 of the
Guarantee Agreement, that the Guarantor shall have implemented, or
caused  to  be  implemented,   the  elimination  of  all  Official
Reference Prices referred to in the Steel Trade Policy Program.
5.   (a)  No withdrawal shall be  made  and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan under Category (1) in  paragraph  1 above after the aggregate
of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account
under such Category (1) and  the  total amount of such commitments
under such  Category  (1)  shall  have  reached  the equivalent of
$50,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange
of views as described in  Section  3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement
and based on  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank:  (i) with the
progress achieved by  the  Guarantor  in  the  carrying out of the
Steel Sector Reform Program;  (ii)  that  the Guarantor shall have
implemented, or caused to be implemented, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank,  the  Price  Liberalization  Program;  (iii) that the
Guarantor shall have  completed  all  measures  referred to in its
Steel Trade Policy Program; and (iv) that the Guarantor shall have
elaborated the global steel sector policy statement referred to in
Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
     (b)  If,  after  the  exchange  of  views  described  in  the
immediately preceding paragraph 5, or  in  paragraph 4 (f) of this
Schedule 1, the Bank shall  have  given notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor that the  progress  achieved  in the carrying out of
the Steel Sector Reform  Program,  the implementation of the Price
Liberalization Program, or the  implementation  of the Steel Trade
Policy Program as  the  case  may  be,  is  not satisfactory, and,
within 90 days after  such  notice,  the  Guarantor shall not have
Page  12
achieved progress or taken  action  satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by notice to  the Borrower and the Guarantor, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of  that  portion  of the Loan allocated to
Category (1) or any part thereof.
6.   Withdrawal applications for  disbursements under Category (1)
in  paragraph  1  above  shall,  to  the  extent  practicable,  be
consolidated in  aggregate  amounts  of  not  less than $1,000,000
equivalent.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives   of   the   Project   are   to  (a)  enhance
competitiveness  in the steel sector through the implementation of
the  Price  Liberalization  Program  and  the  Steel  Trade Policy
Program;   (b)   restructure   SIDERMEX   operations  financially,
organizationally and administratively;  (c) rehabilitate the AHMSA
steel production facilities  and  the  SIDERMEX mining operations;
and (d) modernize HYLSA.
Part A:
     Financing general  imports  in  support  of  the Steel Sector
Reform Program.
Part B:
1.   Improving the quality and lowering the costs of production by
AHMSA of flat products,  in  particular  hot and cold rolled sheet
and tin plate, including: (a) debottlenecking the steel-making and
continous casting  facilities;  (b)  rehabilitating  the hot strip
mill; (c) debottlenecking  the  cold  rolling mills; (d) providing
catch-up maintenance  throughout  plant  operations, utilities and
services;  (e)  expanding  AHMSA's   product  line  by  using  the
underutilized  heavy  structural  mill  for  rail  production; (f)
enhancing systems and training; (g) acquisition and utilization of
equipment for improving the  steel-making  facilities, the hot and
cold rolling mills, rail  section mill and plant-wide maintenance,
utilities and  services;  (h)  technical  assistance for enhancing
management   information   systems,    engineering   and   project
management, and developing training programs.
2.   Raising the productivity in the coal mining operations of CMC
and the efficiency of its "Hercules" iron ore mine, including: (a)
rehabilitation  and  renewal  of  equipment  and  maintenance; (b)
debottlenecking investments, systems  and  controls; (c) technical
assistance   for   general   training,   management  improvements,
operational improvements, upgrading technical skills, implementing
accounting and management information systems; and (d) acquisition
and  utilization  of  mining,  transport  and  conveyor equipment;
modification of an iron ore concentrator facility; installation of
new  maintenance  and  support  facilities,  and  installation and
improvement of coal washing facilities.
3.   Carrying  out  studies  to  assist  SIDERMEX  management  in:
(a) developing  a  long-term  strategy,  including  its underlying
technical analysis; (b) undertaking a group-wide asset revaluation
exercise  and  incorporating  the   results  into  an  appropriate
financial  structure;  (c)  implementing  the  organizational  and
financial  restructuring  measures  emerging  from  the  long-term
strategy studies;  (d)  detailed  planning  of long-term strategic
investments;  and  (e)  implementing  corporate  level  management
information systems.
Part C:
     Improving the  competitive  advantage  of  the  Flat Products
Division of HYLSA,  including:  (a)  investments in cost reduction
and in  productivity  and  quality  improvement; (b) establishment
of production of  high  quality  slabs  in  the steel-making shop;
Page  13
(c) rehabilitation for the improvement of quality and productivity
of hot strip mill; (d)  debottlenecking and improvement of quality
and  productivity  of  cold  rolling  mills;  (e)  acquisition and
utilization of equipment  for  steel-making  and  for hot and cold
rolling mills; and (f) technical assistance in connection with the
foregoing.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning June 15, 1991
     through   June 15, 2002                         16,665,000
On December 15, 2002                                 16,705,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods under Part A of the Project
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
Page  14
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the  United  National  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
               "As a  further  alternative,  bidding documents may
          require the bidder to  state  the  bid price in a single
          currency  widely   used   in   international  trade  and
          specified in the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of  funds  from  the   Loan   Account  in  respect  thereof,  such
documentation and information as  the  Bank may reasonably request
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not
apply to contracts on  account  of  which  the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
Section II.  Procurement of  Goods  under  Parts  B  and  C of the
             Project
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C  hereof, goods under Parts B and
C of the  Project  shall  be  procured  under contracts awarded in
Page  15
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured   in the United
Mexican States may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   International Shopping.
     Contracts for the acquisition  of  goods under Parts B.1, B.2
and C  of  the  Project,  and  estimated  to  cost  an  amount not
exceeding the  equivalent  of  $500,000  per  contract,  up  to an
aggregate amount equivalent  to  $5,700,000  for  Part  B.1 of the
Project, $1,700,000 for Part  B.2  of  the Project, and $2,600,000
for Part C  of  the  Project,  may  be  procured  on  the basis of
evaluating and  comparing  price  quotations  from  at least three
contractors or suppliers, including  at least two such contractors
or suppliers from two different member countries of the Bank other
than the Guarantor, in  accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.   Direct Contracting.
     Contracts  for  the  acquisition  of  spare  parts  or  goodsinvolving 
proprietary technology, under  Parts  B.1,  B.2 and C of
the Project, up to  an  aggregate amount equivalent to $13,100,000
for Part B.1  of  the  Project,  $3,900,000  for  Part  B.2 of the
Project, and $6,000,000 for Part C of the Project, may be procured
on the basis of direct  purchasing  if  there is only one possible
supplier or contractor,  or  after  evaluating and comparing price
quotations  from  at  least   two  contractors  or  suppliers,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Limited International Bidding.
     Contracts for the acquisition of  goods which can be supplied
by only a limited  number  of  manufacturers, under Parts B.1, B.2
and C of the Project, up to an aggregate amount of $11,400,000 for
Part B.1 of the Project,  $3,400,000  for Part B.2 of the Project,
and $5,200,000 for Part C of  the  Project, may be procured on the
basis of limited international  bidding procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent  of  $2,000,000  or  more,  the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
Page  16
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section III.  Employment of Consultants
     Whenever consultants are employed  to  assist in the carrying
out of the  Project,  such  consultants shall have qualifications,
experience and terms and  conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank. Such consultants  shall  be  selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories"  means Categories 2 and 3
set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the Eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Initial Deposit" means an amount equivalent to
twenty million ($20,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the  Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this  Schedule.  The  Borrower  shall  make  withdrawals  from the
Special Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis
of the evidence that  the  Bank  shall have reasonably determined,
and shall debit the Special Account  with the amount in dollars so
withdrawn or with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than
dollars in which the payment was  made, determined on the basis of
the rate of  exchange  between  the  dollar  and  such currency in
effect: (i) on the date  of  each  payment, if the withdrawal from
the Special Account  in  respect  of  such  payment  has been made
within 90 days of the  date  of  the  payment; (ii) on the date of
each payment, if such payment was  made  prior to the date of this
Agreement; or (iii) on  the  date  each withdrawal shall have been
made from the Special Account.
3.   The Bank may, at  the  request  of  the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the  Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit.  Thereafter, and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower  furnished  to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so withdraw
from the Loan Account  and  deposit  into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required  to replenish the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures, but only to  the  extent that the amount of
any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as  of  the  date  of  such request, shall not
Page  17
exceed, in the aggregate,  the  equivalent of the Initial Deposit.
Except as the Bank  may  otherwise  agree, each such deposit after
the Initial Deposit shall be  withdrawn  by the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  Eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the  request  for  such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for a
deposit by the Bank  into  the  Special  Account after the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each
payment made by  the  Borrower  out  of  the Special Account, such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, when the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the Categories,  minus  the  amount  of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by  the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions, shall be  equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the  Initial  Deposit,  the  Bank shall be entitled,
after consultation with the Borrower,  to reduce the percentage of
disbursements for Eligible Expenditures  or  take any other action
which will ensure the Bank  that  by  the time of disbursements of
the total amount of the  proceeds of Loan, all deposits (including
the Initial Deposit made  by  the  Bank  into the Special Account)
were made for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall  have  determined that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible  for  financing  by  withdrawal  from the Loan
Account; or (ii) was not  justified by the documentation furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 above,  the Bank shall notify the Borrower
of such circumstances, and if, after  a period of 30 days from the
issuance of such notice,  an  amount  equal  to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified has
not been deposited by the Borrower into the Special Account or, if
the Bank shall so  request,  refunded  to  the Bank, the Bank may,
without in  any  way  restricting  or  limiting  any other rights,
power, or remedy of  the  Bank  under this Agreement, refrain from
making further deposits into such Account.
     (b)  If any amount  outstanding  in  the Special Account will
not  be  required   to   cover   further   payments  for  Eligible
Expenditures, the Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank, and unless otherwise agreed by  the Bank, refund to the Bank
such amount then outstanding in  the Special Account for crediting
to the Loan Account and immediate cancellation.
                            SCHEDULE 6
        Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
I.   AHMSA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   The  funds  being  lent  to  AHMSA  shall  be  denominated in
dollars, shall be amortized  over  fifteen years with a three-year
grace period, and shall carry interest at a rate which is equal to
110% of the interest rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank.
2.   AHMSA shall  commit  itself  to  carry  out  Part  B.1 of the
Project and to discharge  all  of  its obligations under the AHMSA
Project Agreement.
3.   AHMSA  shall  commit   itself   to  maintain,  until  Project
completion, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at
least 1.2 and a debt/equity ratio not greater than 67:33.
4.   AHMSA shall commit itself,  until  Project completion, not to
incur additional  debt  if  the  effect  thereof  would  cause its
debt/equity ratio to exceed  67:33  or  its projected debt service
coverage ratio to fall below 1.5.
Page  18
II.  CMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   The funds being lent to  CMC shall be denominated in dollars,
shall be amortized  over  fifteen  years  with  a three-year grace
period, and shall carry interest at  a rate which is equal to 110%
of the interest rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank.
2.   CMC shall commit itself to carry  out Part B.2 of the Project
and to discharge  all  of  its  obligations  under the CMC Project
Agreement.
3.   CMC  shall   commit   itself   to   maintain,  until  Project
completion, a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 2.0 and
a cash generation/capital expenditures ratio of not less than 0.5.
III. SIDERMEX Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   The funds being  lent  to  SIDERMEX  shall  be denominated in
dollars, shall be amortized  over  fifteen years with a three-year
grace period, and shall carry interest at a rate which is equal to
110% of the interest rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank.
2.   SIDERMEX shall commit itself  to  carry  out  Part B.3 of the
Project and to discharge all of its obligations under the SIDERMEX
Project Agreement.
IV.  HYLSA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   The  funds  being  lent  to  HYLSA  shall  be  denominated in
dollars, shall be amortized  over  fifteen years with a three-year
grace period, and shall carry interest at a rate which is equal to
110% of the interest rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank.
2.   HYLSA shall commit itself to carry  out Part C of the Project
and to discharge all  of  its  obligations under the HYLSA Project
Agreement.
3.   HYLSA  shall  commit   itself   to   observe,  until  Project
completion,  the  same   or   substantially  equivalent  financial
covenants, including working capital maintenance and a debt-equity
ratio, as are included in the HYLSA Debt Restructuring Agreement.
