                                                  Document o f
                                                 The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                      ReportNo: T7641-AF




                                               TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                       FOR A PROPOSEDGRANT

                                           OF SDR 18.4MILLION


                                  (US$27.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                      TO THE

                               ISLAMICREPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                                      FOR A

                PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                               December27,2004




South Asia Region Financial Management Unit




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance oftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
           (exchange rate is Kabulbasedopenmarket buying rate)
                          effective October 5, 2004

                 Currency Unit      -            Afghani
                 U S $ 1            =    45.0    Afghani


                     GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                            March21 -March20




                           Vice President: Praful C. Pate1
                         Country Director: Alastair McKechnie
Director, Operational and Quality Services: Barbara Kaka
          Manager, FinancialManagement: Robert Saum
                        Task Team Leader: Anne Tully




                                       ..
                                       11

                                                           FOROF'FICTALUSEOPTLY
                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

             AACA         Afghanistan Assistance CoordinationAuthority
             AFMIS        Afghanistan Financial Management InformationSystem
             AIA          Afghanistan InterimAdministration
              ARCS        Audit Report Compliance System
              ARDS        Afghanistan ReconstructionDevelopment Services
              ARTF        Afghanistan ReconstructionTrust Fund
              CAO         Control andAudit Office
              CQ     *    Consultant Qualifications
              DAB         D a Afghanistan Bank
              DBER        Development Budget and External Relations
              DFID        Department for International Development
              EPAP        Emergency Public Administration Project
              FMIS        Financial Management InformationSystems
              FMR         Financial Monitoring Report
              GDP         Gross Domestic Product
              HR          Human Resources
              IARCSC      Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission
              IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
              ICB         International Competitive Bidding
              IDA         International Development Association
              IFAC        International Federation of Accountants
              INTOSAI     International Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions
              IRoA        Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan
              MOF         Ministry of Finance
              NDF         National Development Framework
              NCB         National Competitive Bidding
              NDF         NationalDevelopment Framework
              PACBP       Public Administration Capacity BuildingProject
              PAR         Public Administration Reform
              PAREM       Public Administration Reform and Economic Management
              PPU         Procurement Policy Unit
               PRR        Priority Reform and Restructuring
               PSIB       Programmatic Support for Institution Building
               QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
               RFP        Request for Proposal
               SA         Special Account
               SAF        Securirig Afghanistan's Future
               SBD        Standard Bidding Documents
               SDR        Special Drawing Rights                                     9
               SDU        Special Disbursement Unit
               SOE        Statement of Expenditures
               SY         Solar Year
               TA         Technical Assistance
               TSS        Transitional Support Strategy

This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                 ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFAFGHANISTAN
                 PUBLICADMINISTRATION CAPACITYBUILDING PROJECT
                                                TECHNICALANNEX

                                               TABLEOFCONTENTS

I CountryBackgroundandStrategy
 .                                                 ..........................................................................................    1
      A. Country Background...................................................................................................... 1
      B. Government Economic ManagementStrategy..............................................................                                    1

I1 IDA RESPONSE
  .                   ......................................................................................................................
      A. Bank's Transitional Support Strategy............................................................................. 3                     3

      B. Rationale for IDA'SInvolvement inPublic Administration andEconomic
         Management...................................................................................................................           4
      C. The Firstand SecondEmergencyPublic Administration Projects................................                                              4

I11 The ProposedProject
   .                           .............................................................................................................     6
      A. Project Objective............................................................................................................ 6
      B. Project Approach............................................................................................................            6
      C. Project Description.........................................................................................................            7

I V ProjectImplementationandOversightArrangements
  .                                                                                        ....................................................  12
      A. ImplementationArrangements..................................................................................... 12
      B. Procurement,FinancialManagement. andAudit Arrangements.................................                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                 14
      D. MonitoringandEvaluation..........................................................................................
      C. Project Oversight..........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                 14

V BenefitsandRisks
  .                     ..................................................................................................................       14


Boxes
Box 1.Economic ManagementVision ...........................................................................................                       2
Box 2. PAREM Initiatives to Build a ModernPublic Administration and StrengthenCore
      Functions.............................................................................................................................. 3
Box 3. Key Achievements under EPAP Iand I1............................................................................. 5


Annex
Annex 1: Termsof Reference for Major Technical Assistance Packages....................................                                           16
      Component 1. StrengtheningProcurement Capacity within Government........................                                                   16
      Component 2. StrengtheningFinancial Management Capacity withinGovernment .......18
      Component 3: StrengtheningInternal Audit Capacity withinGovernment .....................                                                   20
      Component 4: StrengtheningExternal Audit Capacity withinGovernment ....................                                                    22
Annex 2: ProcurementArrangements........................................................................................... 25
      Attachment 1: Proceduresfor National Competitive Bidding..........................................                                         27
Annex 3: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements ............................................                                          29
Annex 4. Monitoring.....................................................................................................................
             . .                                                                                                                                 34



                                                                 iv


                           I.COUNTRYBACKGROUND STRATEGY AND

A. Country Background

1.     Afghanistan has achieved much in the three years since December 2001 when the
Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) was inaugurated in Kabul. Picking up the reins o f
governance at that point the AIA was confronted with an economy reeling from protracted
conflict and drought, more than five million people displaced as refugees in neighboring
countries, economic activities steered in an informal or illicit direction by insecurity, and a state
that had become virtually non functional in terms of policy making and service delivery -
although the structures and many staff remained.        The achievements that have been made
subsequently are significant, and inAfghanistan's context, remarkable.

2.     Afghanistan's economy has performed strongly in the past two and half years with non-
drug Gross Domestic Product (GDP) reaching US$ 4.6 billion in 2003/04 (corresponding to a
GDP per capita o f about US$200 per year), an increase o f almost 50 percent, albeit from a very
low base. This is mainly attributable to the recovery o f agriculture from the drought, revival o f
economic activities after major conflict ended, and the commencement o f reconstruction efforts.
This solid performance has been supported by the Government's sound macroeconomic policies
-ahighlysuccessfulcurrencyreforminlate2002,aprudentnooverdraftpolicyprohibiting
domestic financing o f the budget deficit, conservative monetary policy, and good management o f
the exchange rate. Progress has been made in mobilizing domestic resources as well as donor
assistance in support o f the Government's medium-term development program, with
expenditures financed by external assistance increased to more than US$ 2 billion in 2003/04.
The Government has also made considerable progress in formulating the budget and developing
a medium-term expenditure framework.

3.      These achievements notwithstanding, the challenges remain enormous in improving
security throughout the country, reestablishing national unity, developing institutions with a
capacity to formulate and implement policies, reaching out to provinces to collect revenues and
deliver services, and implementing the Government's long-term vision for the future o f
Afghanistan.

B. Government Economic Management Strategy

4.      Following its inauguration, the Government quickly took the initiative in formulating
Afghanistan's development strategy. InApril 2002, it formulated a comprehensive development
strategy -the National Development Framework (NDF) -which outlined a strong agenda to
rebuild institutions and implement structural reforms within a stable macroeconomic framework.
The NDF was also a significant step in underpinning a truly Government-led reconstruction
process. The NDF provides a framework to coordinate the Government's programs and donor
assistance and also provides the basis for preparingthe National Budget.

5.      The NDF was further underpinned by a report released by the Government in March
2004: Securing Afghanistan's Future: Accomplishments and the Strategic Path Forward (SAF).




                                                 1

SAF' sets out a comprehensive framework and investment program based on outcome targets to
be achieved in 2015 to align with the Millennium Development Goals Framework. It provides
an assessment o f the investment and recurrent cost requirement over a seven-year horizon,
identifying a requirement for external assistance inthe range o f US$ 27 billion over this period.
The report provided the basis for a major donor meeting heldinBerlin inMarch 2004 where the
international community pledged US$ 8.2 billion for reconstruction and security activities over
the next three years (SYl383-1385), with US$4.4 billion pledgedfor SY1383 alone.

6.       These strategy documents have as their core the principle o f a well-functioning state that
i s accountable to its citizens and able to ensure the delivery o f services in an equitable, efficient,
and effective manner. The Government's objective o f providing an enabling environment for
growth requires an effective central government that can reestablish national unity on the basis o f
strong institutions and the rule of law. The SAF report laid out a vision inthe area o f economic
management (box 1) and several specific goals, including:

         0    A well-functioning and well structured security sector based on institutions that
              facilitate a return to normalcy inthe political, economic, and social spheres;

         0    An effective public administration that is small and focused on core functions; more
              diverse and decentralized; better skilled, equipped and managed; more accountable;
              and more representative interms o f gender and ethnicity; and

         0    A budget that is affordable and sustainable on a multi-year basis. and enables
              delegation o f authority based on strong accountability mechanisms.

                                        Box 1. Economic Management Visiona
e    A budget that is affordable and sustainable-robust revenue capacity with effective collection processes and
     an expenditure structure that is affordable with minimal donor assistance.
e    A budgetprocess which is:

     0 multi-year, and tied to policy development through a strategicplanningprocess;

     0 comprehensive,integrating capital and operating components and including all sources o f revenues and
       all expenditures; and

     0 results-based, inwhich budgets are developed on a program basis and focused on outputs and outcomes
       rather than inputs.
e    Increaseddelegatedauthority for financial management, concurrent with stronger accountability meclzanisms.
e    Modern, electronic financial management systems in place to ensure efficient cash management, timely
     payments and disbursements, and accurate financial accounting.
e    Transparency in reporting to decision-makers and the public so that decisions are based on timely information
     and Government can be held accountable for the use o f public resources.


a Securing Afghanistan's Future: Accomplishmentsand the Strategic Path Forward, March 2004.


7.        To achieve these goals and build a modern, transparent, and effective public
administration at central, provincial, and district levels, the Government needs to address three

  Prepared incollaboration with the Asian Development Bank, the Intemational Monetary Fund,the UnitedNations
Development Program, the UnitedNations Assistance Mission for Afghanistan, andthe World Bank.


                                                          2

inter-related issues: (a) redefining the roles and mandates of line ministriesand aligning staffing
to the new roles; (b) reforming public sector pay scales to recruit and retain qualified
professionals and buildcore public administration capacity; and (c) effectively utilizing technical
assistance to support implementation of public administration reforms including increasing
Government's absorptive capacity and regulatory power.

8.      While still at an early stage, the Government's Public Administration Reform and
Economic Management (PAREM) Program is laying down the basis for addressingthese issues
(box 2). It i s also setting the framework for Government to transition from "buying-in" core
public administration capacity to utilizing technical assistance to kick start and sustain key
functions within Government.

     Box 2. PAREM Initiatives to Build a Modern Public Administrationand StrengthenCore Functions
    The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has initiated several measures to consolidate its functions and strengthen its
    capacity.
    Systems for preparation of the ordinary and development budgets have been progressively improved and
    updated.
    Improvements have been made inbudget executionand treasury functions -including improvements to payroll
    processes throughout the country - with parallel improvements in Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) payment
    systems.
    Efforts at administrative reform are being spearheaded through the Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR)
   process whereby staff in departments who undertake administrative reforms receive interim additional
    allowances. (This is being supplementedby aPRR Superscaleto attract exceptional staffing resources.)
    These efforts will help lay the basis for abroad-basedprogramto streamline and rationalize ministries.
    A Lateral Entry program has beenestablishedto inject fresh capacity into line ministries to acceleratethe reform
    effort.
    A full pay and grading review i s underway with the aim of providing an appropriate pay and incentive
    framework to attract and retain quality staff inGovernment.
    Technical assistance is being designed with a greater focus on capacity building including developing the legal
    and regulatory frameworks, defining systems based on clearly identified needs, and strengthening human
    resource(HR) capacityto operate these systems over time.


9.      All of these efforts are expected to result in an expansion of absorptive capacity
consistent with the experience inother post-conflict countries which has shown that the capacity
to absorb development assistanceincreasesdramatically after approximately three years.

                                            11.     IDARESPONSE

A. Bank's Transitional Support Strategy

10.     The reconstruction strategy developed by the Government of Afghanistan forms the
framework within which the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) has been prepared.
Approved in March 2003, the TSS sets out priorities for Bank financial and non-financial
assistance based on the areas o f comparative advantage of the Bank and the particular situation
in Afghanistan.       The TSS focuses on four strategic areas: (a) improving livelihoods; (b)
strengthening the fiscal strategy, institutions andmanagement; (c) implementinggovernance and
public administration reform; and (d) enabling private sector development.




                                                         3

B. Rationalefor IDA'sInvolvementinPublicAdministrationandEconomicManagement

11.     Both the first and second TSS for Afghanistan emphasizedthe need for Afghans to be in
the "driver's seat" with regard to managing the reconstruction and development process. Under
the Government's steadfast direction, donors have increasingly supported Government programs
and accepted the budget as the instrument for managing donor resources. In parallel, the
Government has had to demonstrate its ability to manage resources in an effective and
transparent manner, with an increasing emphasis on rules-based economic governance and
effective capacity building.

12.     Within the governance and public administration reform strategic areas, the Bank's
strategy has been to identify pragmatic opportunities for action inthe short term, initiating a set
of immediate reforms which would be supportive of longer-term improvements in public
administration. It.has entailed: (a) ensuringthat emergency capacity i s inplace, especially inkey
fiduciary areas, while launching medium-term capacity building efforts; (b) undertaking
extensive diagnostic work along with ongoing technical and policy advice to identify and address
key constraints; (c) identifying short-term goals that are fully owned by the Government and
agreedwith all major donors; and (d) providinggap financing whenneeded.

13.     The First and Second Emergency Public Administration Projects (EPAP Iand 11)
primarily supported the first and second prongs of the above strategy. Other Bank instruments,
including analytical work and policy dialogue in administrative reform, as well as the
Programmatic Support for Institution Building (PSIB) adjustment operation, have supported the
thirdand fourthprongs.

14.     This strategy initially focused on achieving progress in governance and public
administration reform through quick-wins, and in ways that did not undermine medium-term
goals. As the Bank has engaged in an increasingly substantive policy dialogue with the
Government in the area of administrative reform, a progressive shift has been made toward
supporting medium-term solutions to build capacity within Government, including:
(a) supporting broader public expenditure legislative reform agenda covering budget,
procurement, and audit laws; (b) strengthening sub-national governance through the Afghanistan
Stabilization Programme; (c) rationalizing ministries through the PRR process; (d) reforming pay
and payroll systems; and (e) strengthening financial control, reporting, audit, and procurement
systems.

C. The First and Second EmergencyPublicAdministrationProjects

15.     EPAP Iwas IDA's first operation in Afghanistan and totaled US$ 10 million. It was
approved in April 2002 and became effective in June 2002. The objective of the project was to
put inplace emergency capacity inkey public administration areas to facilitate the use of donor
and own resources for urgent reconstruction and development efforts. It also aimed to support
some basic steps toward building a transparent, well-functioning public administration. EPAP I
was comprised of three components:

        e   Procurement Strengthening Component to support the transparent and efficient
            utilizationof donor resourcesthrough employment of a procurement agent;



                                                 4

        0    Treasury DepartmentStrengtheningComponentto kick start the budget execution
             and expenditure accounting and reporting functions through employment of an
             international financial management agent; and


        0    Audit Capacity Strengthening Component to ensure the timely audit o f
             Government expenditure through engagement o f an Audit Agent.

16.     In June 2003 a follow-up project (Second Emergency Public Administration Project,
EPAP 11) was approved. EPAP I1provided supplemental financing for the procurement and
financial management contracts supported under EPAP I.EPAP I1also provided funds for the
Government's Public Administration Reform program (PAR), implemented by the Independent
Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission (IARCSC) andjointly financed with the
Department for International Development (DFID). These funds support activities to strengthen
the functions o f the IARCSC inimplementing the PRRprocess and other priority activities inthe
PARprogram.

17.     EPAP Iand I1have been core elements o f IDA's first and second TSSs, providing the
underpinning fiduciary arrangements for the entire IDA portfolio.                      This enabled IDA to
reactivate operations with Afghanistan very quickly in the post-conflict period. In addition,
IDA's early support in these areas enabled the Government to quickly build credibility with
donors as to their ability to effectively manage donor and own resource. This i s reflected inthe
increasing numbers o f donors prepared to channel funds either directly through the Treasury or
via the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). EPAP I1 has also enabled the
Government to lay the basis for reforming the administrative arrangements within government.

18.     A mid-term review was conducted of EPAP Iand EPAP I1in early 2004. The review
concluded that the projects had made significant progress in achieving their objectives (box 3)
particularly in the context o f Afghanistan's extremely limited capacity and engagement with the
international community over the past twenty years. Early assistance focused on the provision o f
emergency capacity in critical fiduciary areas.              Because o f the emergency nature o f this
assistance, broader institutional development and capacity building activities did not proceed as
quickly as expectations in this regard. In some areas, the lack o f a medium-term framework for
systems development, regulatory reform, and capacity building inhibited further progress being
made, particularly inexpanding the activities to line ministries and provinces.

                               Box 3. Key Achievements under EPAP Iand I1
    As o f mid-November 2004, the Afghanistan Reconstruction Development Services (ARDS) has processed 202
    contracts with a value of USD 392.9m with a further 42 contracts in preparation estimated at USD 257m. A
    draft procurement law has been prepared and between 110 and 150 procurement staff from line ministries have
    receivedtraining inbasic and specific procurement rules.
    In the Treasury, a functioning computerized general ledger and payments system is in place with some
    networking o f components; significant improvements have been made in cash management, grant management,
    bankreconciliations, revenue recording, and the recording of budget appropriations and allotments.
    The Auditor General has completed the audits o f the financial statements o f ARTF, the state budget, and an
    increasing number o f IDA and ARTF-funded projects.


19.     The mid-term review concludedthat continued operational assistance would be necessary
to maintain standards o f fiduciary control for the near term, and in order to maintain donor


                                                        5

confidence in the Government's fiduciary       mechanisms. At the same time, the Government
considers it crucial to transition from "buying-in" capacity to developing it within Government
within a clearly articulated medium-term development framework. Inresponse to this, IDA and
the Government have had extensive dialogue during the last six months on a coherent medium-
term public expenditure management reform and capacity building strategy that addresses
legislative, regulatory, and institutional reforms and development o f management control
systems and HR. The Government has requested IDA assistance inthe implementation o f such a
strategy. The proposedproject i s prepared inthis context.

                                   111. THEPROPOSEDPROJECT

A. ProjectObjective

20.     The overall objective o f the project i s to assist the authorities in developing the capacity
to manage public expenditures in an effective, transparent, and accountable manner in order to
achieve satisfactory and sustainable development outcomes in Afghanistan. The project will
have a particular focus on enhancing the performance o f public sector procurement, financial
management, and accountability systems.

21.      Success inmeetingthe project's objective will be measured by:

         0  Establishment and implementation o f sound regulatory and control frameworks for
            budget execution and fiscal reporting, andpublic sector procurement;

         0  Further development o f core systems for budget execution, Government accounting,
            andinternaland externalaudits;

         0  Development o f HRto effectively manage and operate these critical systems; and


         0  Operational performance (technical efficiency) o f the fiduciary management
            functions.

B. ProjectApproach

22.      The proposed project combines technical assistance (TA) for continued operational
support in core fiduciary functions with assistance for implementation of legislative, regulatory,
and institutional reforms; systems development; and HR development. The project will reflect
the lessons learned in the first two projects by putting into effect a clear capacity building
strategy ineach area based upon the following:

         0  Ensuring capacity building activities are firmly grounded ina medium-termstrategic
            planfor development o f the core functions withinGovernment;

         0  Facilitating the long-term sustainability o f capacity buildingthrough establishment o f
            an appropriate legal, regulatory, and control environment;

         0  Ensuringthat further systems development is based on a medium-term approach to
            requirements and a full understandingo f local conditions and capabilities;


                                                   6

           Ensuringthat key functions are defined and established not only in the core central
           agencies but also inthe line ministries;

           Ensuringcounterpart staff are inplace inthese core functional areas so that effective
           knowledge transfer can take place;

           Ensuring terms o f reference for technical assistance service providers accord adequate
           consideration to on-the-job training and knowledge transfer with key milestones
           identified inorder to monitor progress; and

           Separating major training activities from the delivery o f operational support
           consultancy services to maximize value-for-money and to avoid the risk that urgent
           operational support objectives will crowd out essential capacity building activities.

23.     The Government wishes to examine options for bringing about many o f the necessary
institutional improvements in public expenditure management, where possible, through
relationships (twinning) with experienced and well-performing institutions/agencies in other
countries.   Twinning with experienced entities in the core functional areas may provide
opportunities to integrate know-how transfer and on-the-job staff training. Twinningalso has the
advantage o f sensitizing Government staff to an experienced well-functioning organization, a
dimension that consultancy assignments often lack. The Government has requested that the
various TA components under the project be examined for the degree to which twinning
arrangements could be utilized for some activities, particularly those related to strategic
development and capacity building. This approach does not preclude the need for separate
contracting o f operational or specific tasks where appropriate.

C. Project Description

24.     Inpursuit ofthese objectives, the project is comprisedoffive components:

         Component 1:          Strengthening Procurement         Capacity within      Government
         (US$9,000,000)

25.     Under the Procurement Strengthening Component o f the EPAP Iand 11, a central
Procurement Agent was contracted to put in place emergency procurement capacity to facilitate
rapid, transparent utilization o f donor resources for reconstruction and development.         This
component was implemented by the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority (AACA)
and subsequently by the ARDS.

26.      The EPAP mid-term review recognized that the provision o f emergency centralized
procurement capacity was essential early on in Afghanistan's reconstruction effort.          It also
concluded that there would be a continued need for centralized procurement services for some
time. However, the Government now wishes to see an accelerated effort to build procurement
capacity within line ministries to enable them to perform key procurement functions to adequate
standards.   This is also critical for improving eligibility levels under the recurrent cost
component o f the ARTF.          This will require focused assistance in capacity building,
organizational reform, and legal/regulatory development.



                                                  7

27.     This component of the project will provide technical advisory support, equipment, and
training to the ARDS Procurement Unit and a nascent Procurement Policy Unit (PPU) in order
to:

        A. Support line ministrieswith the direct procurement process, particularly in relation
             to donor programs, for the next three years through a consultancy contract with a
             procurement facilitation firm. An allowance i s included to cover operating costs o f
             the Procurement Unit within the ARDS through June 2005 when it i s expected that
             the costs will be met by the Government.

        B. Undertake a procurement capacity building program within line ministries so that
             they can progressively be accredited with increased delegated authority for
             procurement management within an agreed institutional and legal framework. This
             program (which will include activities to promote Afghan private sector
             participation in procurement) will not only focus on central ministries but will also
             reach out to staff in provinces, districts, and municipalities. The capacity building
             program will include programs to:          (i)train staff and implement a coherent
             certification system; (ii)strengthen the procurement function within Government
             through the PRR process; and (iii)transfer procurement responsibility to line
             ministriesaccordingto a series o fperformance milestones.

        C. Support the promulgation and implementation o f the new procurement law and
             regulations and establishment o f a PPUwithin Government.

28.     The Government has already issued a contract to a consulting firm, Rites o f India, for the
assistance set out insubcomponent 1(A).

        Component 2: Strengthening Financial Management Capacity within Government
        (usss,ooo,ooo)
29.     The Government has begun a program o f financial management improvement which i s
expected to have far-reaching consequences for the manner and processes o f financial
transactions, recording, accounting, and reporting over the next several years. The extent o f
these reforms is evolving but includes budget and expenditure reforms and improved accounting,
financial reporting, and internal controls. The Government has drafted a new Public Finance and
Expenditure Management Law which i s expected to be approved before parliamentary elections
in the middle of 2005 (this approval is a trigger for the second Programmatic Support for
Institution Buildingoperation).

30.     The current Government fiscal management system i s under the administration o f the
M O F which is responsible for budget preparation, budget execution, accounting, reporting,
payroll, revenue and customs administration, debt management, cash management and a range o f
functions inGovernment asset administration.

31.     The mid-term review o f EPAP Iand I1found that the Treasury, with the support o f the
financial management agent, had made significant progress in reestablishing core Government
financial management systems. Core check printing, budget control, and accounting functions o f
an Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS) have been implemented.


                                                  8

Significant improvements have been made in cash management, grant management, bank
reconciliations, revenue recording, andthe recording o f budget appropriations and allotments.

32.     The Government now wishes to consolidate this progress, and ensure that further
progress in implementing financial management systems at the center is matched by similar
attention to development o f capacity and procedures within line ministries and provinces. The
Government also wishes to ensure that any further development o f the AFMIS is done in a way
that takes into account the particular circumstances within Afghanistan and incorporates results
from a systematic review o f the medium- to long-term financial management information
requirements o f the Government. While the EPAP review concluded that the current AFMIS
had proven to be effective in quickly establishing a computerized Treasury payment and
accounting system, it requires significant further developmenthpgrading to meet the needs o f
Government over the longterm, including ultimately serving the provinces and line ministries.

33.     The financial management component will provide TA, equipment, and training to the
M O F and line ministries in the achievement o f core financial management objectives including
attaining higher levels of efficiency in budget execution, fiscal reporting) accounting, and
internal controls. Activities under this component will include:

        A. ComprehensiveFinancial Management Information Systems (FMIS)Architecture
            Study to determine a framework for the phased implementation o f an integrated
            FMIS for Government over the medium to long term. The grant includes a provision
            for the Government to quickly implement early recommendations o f the study in
            agreement with IDA.

        B. Technical advisory support to the MOF and to line ministries to strengthen core
            M O F functions including budget execution) fiscal reporting and accounting, and
            internal control.   Activities are expected to include: strengthening the financial
            management regulatory framework) including drafting needed regulations and
            policies based on the new Public Expenditure and Financial Management Law;
            establishing core functions and systems in each area; facilitating new systems
            integration; identifying HR requirements and conducting a comprehensive training
            needs assessment; coordinating training activities; and providing operational support
            and on-the-job training in core functional areas. While this will primarily cover
            Treasury functions, scope i s retained within the project to support other key MOF
            development priorities as necessary.

        C. Managerial and Professional Development Training in Public Sector Financial
            Managementfor MOF and line minktry stafJ           This will be based upon the needs
            assessment conducted under subcomponent 2 (B).

        Component 3:         Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity within Government
        (US$4,000,000)

34.     The mid-termreview identified the lack of an effective internal audit function as a critical
constraint to improving public expenditure management within Government. There are currently
designated internal audit departments operating in key line ministries that report directly to their



                                                9

ministers. They do not carry out work that would be considered to comply with recognized
international internal auditing standards. Audit work i s currently focused on the identificationof
irregularities and the investigation of potential corruption and fraud. No reviews of internal
control processesare carried out.

35.     This component will provide technical advisory services, training, and equipment to
support the internal audit function within Government. The establishment of an effective
internal audit service, following generally recognized international standards of internal auditing
and control, will help to improve public sector accountability and governance. It will also
support the establishment of sound financial management within the public sector including
more effective execution of the Government budget. The specific objectives of this component
are to:

        0   Help establish an audit committee to provide oversight of the Internal Auditing
            Service;

        0   Create an organizational structure which will remove the current influence of
            individualministries over the work of internal audit;

        0   Strengthen the working practices of internal audit to carry out more operational
            reviews and evaluationsof internal control systems; and

        0   Provide training and support to facilitate this transition.

36.     A program of professional and technical training for internal audit staff will also be
identified. This may be conductedinconjunction with that for other MOF staff andthose ofthe
Control and Audit Office (CAO).

        Component 4:           Strengthening External Audit Capacity within Government
        (US$4,500,000)

37.     The Control and Audit Regulation issued under the Budget Law in 1985 makes the
General Control and Inspection Presidency of the Council of Ministers (now the CAO) the
supreme audit authority for the whole of Government, providing expost external audit. The
primary activities of the CAO are to check budget expenditure and revenue collection for
compliance with regulations and report discrepancies for corrective action. The CAO audits the
FinalAccount of the MOF and also undertakes external audits inthe provinces.

38.     Since August 2002 the Audit Agent funded under EPAP Ihas provided operational
support and capacity building assistance to the CAO. It has also assisted inpreparing a draft HR
assessment covering training needs, training strategy, HR management, and a staff qualifications
inventory. A range of training activities, both formal (including training in English, computer
literacy, and basic accounting) and on-the-job training through the conduct of audits, have been
conducted with more than 100 CAO staff taking part. Inaddition, an audit law has been drafted
as well as a draft strategic plan.

39.     These early steps have been successful inreestablishingthe CAO as a working institution
but have not developed the institution and its staff sufficiently for them to conduct financial


                                                  10

statement audits to international standards without substantial professional assistance.        A
program o f assistance for several more years will be neededto achieve this goal.

40.    The external audit component will provide technical advisory services, equipment, and
training to support the CAO in strengthening capacity to provide comprehensive auditing
services in accordance with the International Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions
(INTOSAI) auditing standards. TA will be providedto the CAO inorder to:

    A. Undertake core audit operations to acceptable international standards and to provide on-
       the-job training for staff inthe CAO.

    B. Strengthen the audit environment and the capacity o f the CAO to conduct audits to
       international standards. Activities will include: (i) assistance in the development o f the
       audit regulatory environment including the completion o f any necessary legislation and
       regulations; (ii)conduct o f a comprehensive HR and training needs assessment to
       determine the managerial and professional training requirements o f CAO staff; and (iii)
       coordination o f training identified under the needs assessment.

    C. Conduct a program o f managerial and professional development training for CAO staff.
       This will be based on the needs assessment conducted under subcomponent 4 (B).
       Training activities may be conducted jointly with training under the internal audit and
       financial management components.

    D. Developprofessionalaccountingandaudit capacity inthe public and private sectors.

    E. Develop the system for scrutiny and response to audit reports including responses by
       involved ministries and scrutiny by a Public Accounts Committee o f the Parliament.

        Component
        (us$l,soo,ooo)5:      Other Institutional     Strengthening and       Capacity  Building


41.    EPAP I1provided support for the Government's emerging administrative reform program
implemented through the IARCSC. Although assistance inthis area has recently been launched,
the need for additional funding is already anticipated.      This may include assistance to the
Government inrationalizing ministries and in implementing a government-wide pay and grading
review. Fundshave beenincluded under this component to cover additional assistance as well as
emerging priority needs o f the Government inareas related to the overall project objective. The
envisaged areas o f assistance include:

        0  Further support for the IARCSC inthe management o fthe PAR program;

        0  Support for the Government inmanaging donor-funded TA; and

        0  TA to the MOF to develop and implement strategies to transform itself into a
           strategically focused, service oriented, professionally staffed institution and a best-
           practice leader for the government sector over a five-year period.




                                                 11

42.     Cost Estimates. The costs estimated for each component are based on calculations
performed by the Bank team using unit rates on contracts under the current EPAP Iand I1
projects.

                                                                                                                                                 Component                                                                                                                                                                                         US$
        ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................x
             1. StrengtheningProcurementCapacitywithin Government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9,000,000
         .................................................................................
            2. StrengtheningFinanc                                                                                                                                                                   city within Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                     .............................................                         ...............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,000,000
        ..................................................................................
            3. StrengtheningInterna                                                                                                                                                                  inGovernment
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4,000,000
         ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................T
            4. StrengtheningExternal Audit Capacity within Government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4,500,000
            5. Other Institutional Strengtheningand CapacityBuilding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,500,000
                                                  Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27,000,000

                                        Iv.                  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONAND OVERSIGHT ARRANGEMENTS

A. ImplementationArrangements

43.     The project has three implementing agencies:                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARDS/PPU, MOF, and the CAO.
Subcomponent 1 (A) and (B) will be managed by the ARDS. The Government i s inthe process
of reviewing the number and organizational structure o f ministries and it i s likely that the
procurement facilitation function currently held by ARDS may be moved into a new ministry.
Implementation responsibility for the procurement facilitation and capacity building
subcomponents will be moved accordingly. Subcomponent 1 (C) will be implemented by a
nascent PPU. Final location o f the PPU has yet to be determined. Inthe interimthe ARDS will
manage this subcomponent but commencement o f major activities will not occur until such time
as the location o f the PPU i s determined.

44.     The M O F will implement the financial management components and internal audit
components. The external audit component will be implemented by the CAO. The CAO will
also take the lead in implementing the activities relating to the audit environment and audit
standards in conjunction with other relevant agencies. Component 5 will be managed primarily
by the MOF who will approve requests for assistance under this component inclose liaison with
the IARCSC.

45.      CounterpartArrangements. As agreed with the Government, each o f the components
will be managed by a clearly designated counterpart team. Indeed, the experience of EPAP Iand
I1 demonstrated that the lack o f counterpart staff within implementing agencies severely
underminedefforts at capacity building.

46.     Inthis regard, sustained progress on PRR implementation will be important. All of the
implementing agencies, except for the ARDS, have or are in the process o f applying for PRR.
The Treasury and Internal Audit Directorates of the MOF are well advanced in recruiting new
staff to PRR scales. The CAO has also attained stage 2 PRR status and it is anticipated that the
Procurement Unit will come under PRR status in the next budget. These institutional reform
efforts will help to provide a conducive operating environment to reforms and capacity building.
The IARCSC will monitor progress in PRR implementation, identify major issues, and seek
solutions with concerned line ministries to resolve them.




                                                                                                                                                                                                         12

B. Procurement,FinancialManagement,and Audit Arrangements

47.      The Government has expressed a strong desire to explore the possibility o f using
twinning arrangements for delivery of capacity building TA in the key public expenditure
management areas. Normally, twinning arrangements are characterized by a closer involvement
betweenthe two parties than is generally obtained ina standard client-consultant relationship.

48.      The Government i s in the process o f identifying potential twinning partners for the
various capacity buildingactivities. Should twinning arrangements fail to materialize within the
agreed time frame, procurement for consultancy contracts to provide the technical services
required will follow normal Bank procurement guidelines.          Each implementing entity i s
responsible for providing terms of reference and selection criteria to the ARDS Procurement
Unit which, with support from the procurement facilitation consultant, will undertake the
procurement process for the remaining contracts. These arrangements are designed to ensure
compliance with IDA procurement procedures and expedite implementation o f project activities.
Annex 2 provides more information on procurement arrangements.

49.      IDA has gained considerable experience over the past two years as to the functioning of
the Government's financial management system. The overall assessment is that the country's
financial  management system has improved, but that further progress i s needed particularly in
line ministries where capacity i s very weak. Fiduciary risks have, however, been mitigated by
the engagement o f the financial management consultant and the Government's decision to
centralize payment and receipt processing through the Treasury. This project will focus on
strengthening the financial management system within Government.           IDA has initiated in
FY2005 a Country Financial Accountability Assessment, along with a Country Procurement
Assessment Report, as part o f a planned Public Expenditure Review to be delivered inFY2006.

50.      Disbursements from the grant will be transaction based. Approximately 70 percent o f
the grant proceeds will be disbursedthrough direct payments to consultants or twinning partners.
The Grant Agreement will provide a Special Account (SA) with an authorized allocation o f up to
US$ 1,000,000 to facilitate payment for other eligible project expenditures. This SA will be
opened and maintained in a commercial bank or Afghanistan's central bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.

51.      Retroactivefinancing. A provision has been made to reimburse the Government for
payments it makes, up to a maximum o f US$ 3 million equivalent, for eligible project
expenditures incurred after November 1, 2004 and up to the signing o f the Development Grant
Agreement, in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. In particular, and given its
urgency and priority, this provision i s expected to be utilized in part to facilitate the early
mobilization o f the procurement facilitation consultant.

52.      Audit. The CAO, with the support o f the audit consultant, will audit the accounts o f the
project under terms o f reference acceptable to IDA. The annual project financial statements,
audited by the CAO, will be submitted within six months of the close of the Government's fiscal
year.




                                                13

C. Project Oversight

53.     Broad oversight and management o f EPAP Iand I1proved to be difficult as a result o f
multiple implementing agencies. The Government has therefore agreed that a project oversight
committee, chaired by the MOF, will be established to monitor progress under the various
components, ensure coordination, and approve reallocations within the budget total where
needed.

D. Monitoringand Evaluation

54.     Monitoring and evaluation will be based upon a set o f specific and monitorable
legislative, policy, institutional, and HR development actions (monitoring indicators) that are
critical for achieving the project objectives and are clearly linked to results.          Specific
benchmarks will be agreed between the Government and TA providers early in implementation
so as to measure specific progress inmeeting capacity building objectives. Intensive supervision
by IDA during the first half o f the project period is planned to help ensure that any
implementation issues are dealt with promptly. At a minimum, a full supervision mission i s
needed twice a year, comprising appropriate specialists from each of the component areas. The
MOF will have the primary responsibility to prepare and furnish to IDA quarterly progress
reports highlightingprogress in undertaking the actions required to achieve project development
objectives. Annex 4 provides details on monitoring indicators.
                                      v. BENEFITSAND RISKS

55.     The project will support the Government's effort to build solid foundations for a modern,
effective, and accountable public administration with a particular focus on building the capacity
o fpublic institutions to manage resources for better budgetary outcomes and development results
on the ground. Successful implementation o f the project will help to provide assurance to the
Afghan public as well as the international community as to the effective and accountable
utilization o f external assistance and thus, secure the country's continued access to development
assistance. There are several significant risks as described below.

56.     Thefragile political environment is a major risk factor which poses some uncertainties
as to the Government's ability to stay on course during the post-election period and over the
medium term with regard to the broad legislative, policy, and institutional reforms that are
necessary for sustainability o f the project's outcomes, To partially address this risk, IDA will
intensify dialogue with the new Government's cabinet, and with senior management in line
ministries to continue building up and broadening the ownership of the reforms and capacity
buildingprograms supported bythe project.

57.     The inability of implementing agencies to adequately recruit counterpart staff will
continue to constitute a risk to the capacity building strategy. Having adequate counterpart
teams in place will be especially critical to the success o f those components using twinning
arrangements. Provision o f substantive TA may weaken the urgency for some agencies to
aggressively recruit and fill key positions. The project will cxefully monitor this and sequence
packages o f training and other capacity buildinginitiatives with continuing progress inrecruiting
competent staff.



                                                 14

58.     Lack of clarity over functional responsibilities between internal audit and external
audit and between departments within MOF may inhibit progress in a number o f areas and
create overlap and confusion. The MOF i s in the process o f defining its overall vision and
strategies to achieve the vision for the next five years. Among other things, the strategies will
address its internal structure and its relationship with other Government ministriedagencies,
including the CAO. The project-supported capacity building programs will be implemented in
line with the agreed division o f roles and functions.

59.     Difficulty in attracting suitably qualified twinning partners may delay project
implementation. In recognition o f this risk, the Government has agreed that a specific time
frame will be set within which a search for suitable partners will be undertaken. If twinning
arrangements fail to develop within the agreed time frame, procurement for consultancy services
for major technical assistance packages will commence immediately.         Until such time as
experienced twinning partners andor selected consultants have staff in place to support the
Treasury, the core staff o f the incumbent financial management consultants will be retained so
that there are no unnecessary disruptions inbudget execution.




                                                  15

       ANNEX1: TERMS REFERENCE MAJOR
                            OF              FOR          TECHNICAL    ASSISTANCEPACKAGES

Component1. StrengtheningProcurementCapacitywithinGovernment

1.       Background. As part o f the mid-term review o f EPAP, a review o f progress o f the
procurement component o f EPAP Iand EPAP I1was conducted in January 2004. The purpose
o f this review was to identify key constraints to achieving the EPAP Iand I1objectives and to
recommend future actions and a scope o f work for implementing the procurement component o f
the proposed third public administration project, namely the Public Administration Capacity
Building Project (PACBP).

2.       A number of constraints were identified and recommendations made most notably with
respect to the need to more substantively transfer procurement capacity as well as responsibility
for procurement functions to line ministries. Insummary these issues included:

         0  Procurement capacity at all levels in the Government is limited. This i s a serious
             impediment to reform and ways must be found to create interest inthis reform at the
            highest political level, as well as on an operational level.

         0   There are a number o f obstacles to developing capacity, for example: (i) o f    lack
             adequate training (both inthe public and private sectors); (ii) misunderstanding o f the
             scope o f the procurement function; (iii)inappropriate regulations; (iv) lack o f
             common internal structures to deal with procurement inthe line ministries; (v) lack o f
             communication between trained procurement staff and senior administrators; and
             (vi) no clear incentives for improvement and ownership.

         0   There i s no consistency in the organizational structures o f the line ministries with
             respect to the procurement function.       In transferring procurement capacity and
             responsibility to the line ministries, flexibility is required to retain and/or remodel
             internal administrative structures as appropriate.

3.       The review recognizedthat there would be a continued need for centralized procurement
services for some time. But there needed to be an accelerated effort to build procurement
capacity within line ministries so that they can progressively be accredited with increased
delegated authority for procurement management within a structure and agreed institutional and
legal framework.

4.       Proposed Services. The services required as part o f the procurement component of
PACBP can be grouped into three main categories: (i)           procurement facilitation consultancy
services; (ii)capacity building; and (iii)     the legal and institutional framework development
(regulatory reform). As a result o f the significant scope o f work involved, these components will
likely be awarded inseparate lots.

5.       Subcomponent I (A). The ARDS i s in the process o f finalizing the recruitment o f a
consultant to provide services for the first component, i.e., procurement facilitation consultancy
services. This consultancy will continue to provide support to line ministries inthe procurement
o f major goods, works, and services funded under donor and government-fundedprograms.



                                                   16

6.      Subcomponent 1 (B). Capacity Building. The objective will be twofold: to build the
capacity o f procurement officers o f the client and its line ministries, and to strengthen the
organizational structure of the procurement function within procuring entities with a view to
transferring responsibility to them.

7.      This will require the development and implementation of a: (i)     sustainable nationwide
capacity building strategy to take into account the requirements not only o f central government
but also provincial andmunicipal government as well as the private sector; (ii)  program to assist
and facilitate the achievement o f PRR status for a number o f key ministries to be identified;
(iii) totransferprocurementcapacityandresponsibilitytolineministriesaccordingtoaset
     plan
of milestones; and (iv) system o f attestation whereby the performance o f ministries can be
assessedagainst identified benchmarks.

8.      The process envisaged involves the creation o f a sustainable capacity buildingprogram
for individual procurement officers in the Government leading to certification and the ultimate
creation o f a class o f procurement professionals. This program will be conducted using national
training structures which will need to be developed by the technical adviser. This must be seen
as part o f a process through which procuring entities also develop their own internal capacity to
conduct procurement efficiently and is, therefore, linked to the assistance to be provided to
procuring entities under this component to achieve PRR status.

9.      The ultimate goal o f this component is to transfer responsibility for procurement to line
ministries and other procuring entities that have demonstrated satisfactory procurement capacity
(both in terms o f individual procurement officers and internal organization o f the procurement
function) and to do so gradually using milestones indicating increasing levels o f capacity. The
entire process will be gauged through an attestation system which will provide benchmarks
against which achievement inattaining the milestones can be measured.

10.     Subcomponent 1 (C). Servicesfor Legal and Institutional Framework Development.
This proposedassignment shall carry forward the task o f achieving the desired status o f legal and
institutional framework development for procurement inthe country.

11.     The objectives of this component, therefore, are to complete the legal framework and to
assist in the development o f the appropriate institutional framework and effective review
mechanisms to secure implementation o f the new public procurement law and related
procurement reforms. This component requires focus on a strategy to develop and improve the
institutional framework. This will involve:

        0   Completion o f the legislative framework through the drafting and adoption o f
            appropriate secondary legislation;

        0   Assistance with the establishment o f a PPU at an appropriate hierarchical level in
            Afghanistan;

        0   Design and implementation of an independent complaints review mechanism together
            withthe rules ofprocedure andwork systems; and




                                                 17

        0   Training o f review panel members in appropriate procurement matters and dispute
            resolution techniques.

Component2. StrengtheningFinancialManagementCapacitywithin Government

12.     Background.      The current Government figcal management system i s under the
administration of the MOF which i s responsible for budget preparation, budget execution,
accounting, reporting, payroll, revenue and customs administration, debt management, cash
management, and a range o f functions inGovernment asset administration.

13.     The Government has begun a program of financial management improvement which i s
expected to have far-reaching consequences for the manner and processes o f financial
transactions, recording, accounting, and reporting over the next several years. The extent o f
these reforms i s evolving but includes budget and expenditure reforms and improved accounting,
financial reporting, and internal controls. The Government has drafted a new Public Finance and
Expenditure Management Law which i s expected to be approved by the end o f December 2004
(thisapproval is atrigger for the secondPSIB).

14.     The review of EPAP Iand I1found that the Treasury, with the support o f the financial
management agent, had achieved much since August 2002 when the financial management agent
contract was signed. Core check printing, budget control, and accounting functions o f an
AFMIS have been implemented in the Treasury o f the MOF. Significant improvements have
been made in cash management, grant management, bank reconciliations, revenue recording, and
the recording o f budget appropriations and allotments.

15.     A PRR proposal for the Treasury Department is under implementation which will enable
the Treasury to restructure its operations and staffing to improve services to customers,
streamline internal operations, and improve implementationo f Government policy.

16.     However, capacity buildinghas not progressed as much as planned due to several factors.
Delays in recruiting staff under the PRR have inhibited capacity transfer. Work pressures to
support critical Treasury operations, data collection and cleanup, and transaction processing
activities divertedthe attention o fthe financial management agent.

17.     Inaddition, the EPAP review concluded that althoughAFMIS hadproven to be effective
inquickly establishing a computerizedTreasury payment and accounting system, it has still not
become a fully comprehensive and functional management information system able to meet the
needs o f Government over the long term, including ultimately serving the provinces and line
ministries. It has been agreed that further development o f the system should be based on a
systematic review o f the long-term financial management information requirements o f the
Government as proposed inthe study TOR and as outlined below.

18.     Objectives.   The objectives o f the Government in the area o f financial management
include maintaining appropriate fiduciary standards to provide reasonable assurance to the
Afghan public and to international donors that Government resources and donor funds are
subject to appropriate allocation and expenditure controls. An important objective is achieving
compliance with international standards o f financial management, including the use o f



                                                  18

internationally recognized accounting, auditing, and reporting standards enabled by modern
technology and software applications.

19.      Scope of Services. The financial management component will assist MOF and line
ministries to build capacity and attain higher levels o f efficiency in budget execution and
financial reporting. This assistance will be provided through Financial Management Technical
Advisory Services (either through a regular consultancy or a specifically identified twinning
arrangement with another experienced public expenditure management institution), a separate
training contract, and the conduct and phased implementation o f a financial management systems
architecture study. Specific milestones will be set over the period o f the contract to achieve the
objectives o f the component.

20.      Subcomponent 2 (A). FMISArchitectureStudy. Under EPAP Ia fledgling AFMIS was
established.    It has proven to be effective in quickly establishing a computerized Treasury
payment and accounting system but, as it was designed to focus on these core functions, it falls
short o f being a fully comprehensive and functional management information system able to
meet the needs o f Government over the long term. The Government would now like to extend
the functionality and reach o f this system in a way that takes into account the particular
circumstances within Afghanistan and after a systematic review o f the medium- to long-term
financial management information requirements o f the Government.

21.      FreeBalance software i s the core application o f the current AFMIS. It is expected that
AFMIS will continue to run on the FreeBalance software over the next few years; however, its
longer-term retention will depend upon the recommendations o f a systems architecture study
which will seek to define an overall systems architecture for the central, provincial, and district
governments inAfghanistan to serve as a roadmap for a phased implementation.

22.      The objective o f the study i s to determine and describe the core business processes and
the associated user andtechnical requirements for AFMIS ina way that would meet the needs o f
Government over the long term. The solution need not be the same at each level o f Government,
but a seamless interface of data and information across all levels is required. The systems should
be sufficiently flexible to enable subsequent changes to be incorporated. The resulting solutions
may then be implemented at different times but the Government will have the assurance that the
overall financial management architecture i s well designed and integrated and incorporates the
latest risk management techniques.

23.      In order to define these requirements it will be necessary for the consultants to work
closely with counterparts in the Government and with TA advisors to arrive at an agreed
financial management framework. These requirements will then form the basis o f a Request for
Proposal (RFP) to identify suitable systems solutions that are able to be interfaced with the
Government's approved business processes and phased implementation plan. The consultant
will support the Government in the preparation of the RFP and also support the Government
through the procurement stage that follows, ifnecessary.

24.      The project provides limited funds for rollout o f financial management systems
depending upon the outcome o f the systems study and decisions o f the Government with regard
to the appropriate pace o f development.



                                                  19

25.    Subcomponent2 (B). Financial Management Technical Advisory Services.                  This
assignment, which will continue and expand upon the work o f the previous financial
management consultancy, has a number o f distinct butrelated components:

            Operating, maintaining, and enhancing the existing AFMIS, including on-the-job
           training for Government staff;

           Processing transactions for the national budget including World Bank-funded projects
           and projects o f other donors incorporated inthe budgeto f IRoA;

           Further developing the chart o f accounts to meet International Monetary Fund
            Government Finance Statistics reporting standards and budget management
           requirements;

           Accounting and periodic financial reportingto the Government and donors;

           Implementingverified payroll plan;

           Reviewing the financial control framework; developing and implementing financial
           regulations consistent with public financial expenditure management law;

           Developing the cash management function inthe Treasury o f MOF;

           Preparing and implementing a Treasury development strategy; and

           Developing an HR management strategy, assessing training needs, and coordinating
           the training component undertaken under a separate contract.

26.    At the end of the three-year period of assistance it is expected that full systems handover
and knowledge transfer to Government staff will be achieved. A set o f milestones will be
established early inassignment inception to measure performance.

27.    Subcomponent 2 (C). Financial Management Training. This component will be
developed following the training needs assessment undertaken by the financial management
technical advisor. The purpose o f having a separate training component i s to provide a dedicated
training team that can focus exclusively on training needs and not be distracted from this task by
day-to-day operational crises. On-the-job training will, however, continue to be provided by the
financial management technical advisor who is best placed to convey information about the
financial management system.

Component3: StrengtheningInternalAudit Capacitywithin Government

28.    Background. There are currently designated internal audit departments operating inkey
line ministries which report directly to their ministers. They do not carry out work that would be
considered to comply with recognized intemational internal auditing standards. The internal
audit departments cannot be regardedas independent, being heavily influenced by the ministries
withinwhich they function. There is no higher independent authority to oversee their work.



                                                 20

29.     Internal audit work i s currently focused on identification o f irregularities and
investigation o f potential corruption and fraud. Where crime i s identified, cases are passed to the
Attorney General for legal action. No reviews o f internal control processes are carried out.

30.     Ministries carry out internal audit training themselves mainly through the use o f internal
seminars to discuss problems and resolve issues. No formal academic or professional training in
internal auditing is available in Afghanistan. Some "proactive" work i s being carried out (e.g.,
by internal auditors in the Ministries o f Education and Telecommunications) to provide
recommendations for improvements in operational effectiveness. The level o f information and
communication technologies knowledge and experience within the current internal audit
departments is very low. There i s no attempt to carry out internal audits using automated tools.

31.     Objectives.   The specific purpose o f this component i s to establish the necessary
framework within the M O F and other key ministries for an effective internal audit service which
follows generally recognized international standards for internal auditing. The initial focus will
be on providing a modern internal auditing service within the MOF. Work will then be done to
extend this to other ministries based upontheir size and levels o f expenditure.

32.     The wider objective o f this component i s to contribute to the establishment o f sound
financial management within the public sector. This will make possible greater accountability
for financial expenditures o f the Government -both centrally and in the provinces, provide a
means to operate standard income and expenditures controls, and support an independent review
of the processes.    The introduction o f sound internal financial controls will enable greater
transparency inthe Government's decisionmaking.

33.     Scope of Services. Technical advisory services, equipment, and training will be provided
to support the Director o f the Internal Audit Department inthe MOF withthe following activities
to:

         0  Establish a cadre o f trained internal auditors firstly inthe M O F and then in other key
            ministries. While this i s in process, work will continue inthe existing internal audit
            departments.

         0  With the MOF, develop internal auditing policies, standards, and regulations to be
            referenced in an Internal Audit Manual. This manual will be used to extend the
            development o f internal auditing to other ministries.

         0  Review the organizational structure o f internal auditing departments inministries and
            propose organizational changes to adopt the best structure to facilitate the changed
            working practices within the Government's overall reform effort.

         0  Conduct initial audits, then cadres o f internal auditors will carry out audit reviews
           within each ministry. The results o f each audit will then be used to specify more
            focused testing to be carried out by the auditors who have not yet beentrained inthe
            new working practices (as well as providing an assessment o f the effectiveness o f
            internal control).




                                                  21

        0   Develop further cadres of internal auditors with internal audit training until all
            internalauditors are fully trained inmodern internal audit methods.

        0   Launch comprehensive training of internal auditors based on a training needs
            assessment to be undertakenby the internal audit consultant and in conjunction with
            training of other MOF and CAO staff.

34.     Outputs. The main output of these activities will be a modern functionally independent
internal audit service which will be free from operational duties that will be available to offer
advice and assistance to managers in mitigating business risk to achieve the objectives of their
ministries and the Government.

Component4: StrengtheningExternalAudit Capacitywithin Government

35.     Background. At the end of Taliban rule, the overall external audit environment in
Afghanistan was very weak as could be expected after 20 years of war and instability. At that
time, the financial reporting framework had almost completely broken down particularly with
regard to provincial reporting and the production of final accounts. There was inadequate
capacity withinthe CAO andwithinother ministries and departments. While on paper there was
a relatively sound, systematic approachto expenditure management with laws, regulations, and
manuals containing controls and transaction recording processes, in reality, the system was not
operational.

36.     The primary activities of the CAO are to check budget expenditure and revenue
collection for compliance with regulations and report discrepancies for corrective action. The
independence of the Auditor General has been confirmed by Presidential Decree. The Control
and Audit Regulation issued under the Budget Law in 1985 makes the General Control and
InspectionPresidency of the Council of Ministers (now the CAO) the supreme audit authority for
the whole of Government under the Auditor Generalproviding expost external audit. The CAO
audits the FinalAccount of the MOF and is also undertaking external audits inthe provinces.

37.     Since August 2002, an audit agent funded by a World Bank grant under EPAP Ihas been
providing operational support and capacity building assistance to the CAO. Although it was not
originally envisaged that the audit agent would play a significant role in the conduct of audits,
the scarcity o f qualified accountants and the lack of understanding o f financial statement audits
within the CAO has meant that the audit agent has had to play a significant role in the actual
conduct of audits. During this period, the CAO has completed or is inthe process of completing,
with the assistance of the audit agent, the audit of a number of World Bank and ARTF-funded
projects, the audit of ARTF contributions to the recurrent budget, and the audit of the state
budget.

38.     The audit agent also prepared a draft HR assessment covering training needs, training
strategy, HR management, and a staff qualifications inventory. A range of formal training
activities including English, computer literacy, and basic accounting, and on-the-job training
through the conduct of audits have been conducted with more than 100 CAO stafftaking part. In
addition, an audit law has beendrafted as well as a draft strategic planpreparedfor the CAO.




                                                 22

39.     These early steps have been successful inreestablishing the CAO as a working institution
capable of absorbing institutional strengthening assistance, but it has not developed the
institution and its staff sufficiently for them to conduct financial statement audits to international
standards without substantial professional assistance. A program of assistance for several more
years will be neededto achievethis goal.

40.     Within the CAO, most senior staff have beenreplaced and more qualified persons have
been recruited at lower levels.      The current level of audit staff is 190 out of an authorized
complement of 315. Because local graduates with modern accounting knowledge are generally
unavailable and also because many of the recent recruits have law or other degrees, there i s a
need for additional professional training on entry.

41.     Objectives. This component seeks to consolidate and enhance the improvements made
over the past two years to enable the CAO to increasingly provide comprehensive auditing
services inaccordance with INTOSAI auditing standards.

42.     Assistance will be provided through: (i)     technical advisory services in audit operations
and capacity building; (ii)   professional training; (iii) to strengthen professional accounting
                                                         TA
and audit standards and capacity throughout the country; and (iv) TA to develop the system for
scrutiny and responseto audit reports including responsesby involvedministries and scrutiny by
a legislative Public Accounts Committee.

43.     Subcomponent 4 (A). Technical Advisory Services. Technical advisory services will
provide support to the Auditor General's office in audit operations, institutional strengthening
through capacity building, on-the-job training, and development of the regulatory environment.
Specific milestones will be set over the period of the contract to achieve capacity building
objectives. Key activities will be:

        (a) Support to Audit Operations. Assistance will be provided to the Auditor General's
        Office for audit operations with a focus on direct, technical audit support and informal
        on-the-job training to the CAO teams undertaking audits of the SY1383, 1384, and 1385
        financial statements for the ARTF, the Government's annual accounts, IDA and ARTF
        projects, and selectedprojects fundedby other donors.

        On-the-job training provided during actual audit of accounts is regarded as a key part of
        the capacity building being provided to CAO staff through knowledge transfer. While
        the participation of local staff on actual audits as part of their training program may
        increase audit costs, this additional cost is more than compensated by the knowledge
        transfer achieved and the overall contribution to capacity building.

        (3) Institutional Strengthening The new Audit Adviser will be expected to continue to
        provide high-level, strategic institutional development advice to assist the CAO to
        progress toward a modern supreme audit institution with effective influence on the audit
        environment and governance framework in Afghanistan. To this end, the adviser will
        assist the CAO in completing the Strategic Development Plan and further developing its
        HR development strategy to enable the CAO to perform the majority of audits of grants
        and loans to Government to appropriate international standards. The adviser will propose



                                                   23

        specific milestones to be achieved in capacity building such as increased numbers o f
        local staff leading audits. In particular, the consultant will undertake a training needs
        assessment and complete revision o f the HR development strategy within the first six
        months o f the assignment. A separate consultant or twinning arrangement will assist in
        the development and implementation o f an effective audit law and in the subsequent
        writing o f regulations.

44.     Subcomponent 4 (B). Professional and Technical Training. Assistance has been
provided to CAO staff with core capacity building through basic classroom training in audit,
accountancy, English, and computer skills. Continuation o f this basic training will be contracted
separately, possibly as a twinningarrangement inconjunction with training o f internal audit staff
and other MOF staff. Training needs and possible suppliers or twinning arrangements will be
identified through the training needs assessmentconducted under subcomponent 4 (A).

45.     Subcomponent 4 (C). Accounting and Auditing Professional Standards. Trained
accountants and a legislative framework to regulate accounting are needed to improve
governance in both the private and public sectors. The terms o f reference o f this activity will
include assistance in establishing the accounting profession and the supporting regulatory and
academic frameworks.        The various degree courses o f Kabul University related to financial
management and accounting do not incorporate a modern curriculum and academic capacity has
eroded. There is currently no accounting profession or professional body inAfghanistan. There
i s a need to establish an overall accounting framework, including establishing a Government
supported body responsible for adopting the International Federation o f Accountants (IFAC)
international standards, regulating the accounting profession, and setting new curricula for the
main academic bodies delivering accounting training at the various levels. This subcomponent
may be undertakenas part o f a twinning arrangement.

46.     Subcomponent4 (0).Public Accounts Committee. The terms o f reference will include
establishing a system o f response and scrutiny for external and internal audit reports to improve
the effectiveness of audit.     The Constitution has paved the way for elections and eventual
creation o f legislative scrutiny bodies.    Currently, only two percent o f Government bodies
respond to audit reports on their activities. There i s no involvement o f the MOF in dealing with
audit reports. An overall assessment o f the actions taken by Government agencies on the most
recent audit reports should be made through a comprehensive survey.

47.     A formal evaluation o f options for developing an overall framework for the scrutiny and
follow-up o f audit reports based on models in other countries should be made and a system for
Afghanistan designed. Assistance should be provided in the formation o f an interim ad-hoc
scrutiny committee to examine heads o f agencies on recent audit reports and subsequently to
help the National Assembly in any action that it wishes to take in the formation o f a Public
Accounts Committee. This subcomponent may be undertaken as part o f a twinning arrangement.




                                                 24

                           ANNEX2: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

A. General

48.    Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004 and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description o f various
items under different expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be
financed by the grant, procurement methods, consultant selection methods, prequalification
requirements, estimated costs, prior review requirements, andtime frame will be agreed between
the recipient and the Bank in the procurement plan. The procurement plan will be updated at
least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements
ininstitutional capacity.

49.    Procurement of Goods and Works. Procurement of goods under this project will be
done using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and national SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank for National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). Goods estimatedto cost US$ 200,000 equivalent or more shall be
procured through ICB. Goods estimatedto cost less than US$200,000 may be procured through
NCB. Goods may be procured through shopping for contracts estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 equivalent. All contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 200,000 will be subject to
IDA'Sprior review.

50.     Procurement of works under this project will likely be limited to upgrading offices or
training rooms. Procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD for all ICB and national SBD
agreedwith or satisfactory to the Bank.

51.    Selection of Consultants.      Consultants' services would be required under the five
components of the project. The main services packages include:

Component 1: Strengtheningof Procurement Capacity within Government

        0   Central ProcurementFacilitationConsultant

        0   Procurement Capacity Building and Legal and Institutional Reform

Component 2: StrengtheningFinancial Management Capacity within Government

        0   Financial ManagementConsultant to support Treasury Functions

        0   Conduct of a Comprehensive Financial Management Information Systems (FMIS)
            Architecture Study

        0   Implementation of the Recommendations ofthe FMISArchitecture Study

Component 3: StrengtheningInternal Audit Capacity withinGovernment

        0   Consultancy Servicesto Support Internal Audit Operations and Capacity Building




                                                 25

Component 4: Strengthening External Audit Capacity within Government

        0  Audit Consultant Services to Support the CAO inAudit Operations

      . 0  TA to Strengthen Professional Accounting and Audit Standards and Capacity
           throughout the Country

        0  TA to Developthe System for Scrutiny andResponse to Audit Reports

Component 5: Other Institutional Strengthening andCapacity Building

Possible contracts are:

        0  support for the IARCSC inmanagingthe PARprogram;

        0  supportfor the Governmentinmanagingdonor-funded TA; and

        0  broad-based training for the MOF and line ministriesas a result o f ongoing reforms to
           the financial management framework within Government.

52.     For services exceeding US$ 200,000, preferred method o f selection will be Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and for less than US$ 200,000, selection by Consultant
Qualifications (CQ) may be adopted. Selection o f firms will be carried out using the Bank's
standard RFP. For selection o f individual consultants, the relevant provisions in the Bank
guidelines shall be followed. With respect to selection o f consulting firms, IDA's prior review
will be required for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more. With
respect to selection o f individual consultants, IDA's prior review will be required for contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more.

53.     Training. Several smaller packages o f training will be identified following training
needs assessments conducted under the main TA packages. Flexibility will be needed as to how
to package these depending on the particular needs and potential service providers identified.

54.     Operational Costs. The operational costs of the ARDS would be funded after the
effectiveness ofthe prGect andup to June 30,2005. The cost i s estimated to be US$ 500,000.

B. Procurement Plan

55.     A procurement plan has been developed for project implementation which provides the
basis for applicable procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the recipient and
the project team and i s available in project files.  The procurement plan will be updated in
agreement with the project team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

C. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

56.     Procurement supervision will be carried out during the project supervision missions
which are expected to be twice a year.




                                                 26

Attachment 1: Proceduresfor NationalCompetitiveBidding

A. Advertising

57.     The invitation for bids shall be advertised ina newspaper of local circulationinthe areas
where the civil works are to be provided and the goods are to be supplied. Inthose areas where
this is not possible, the invitation for bids shall be posted at such place or places as shall be
appropriate.

58.     The invitation for bids shall be in local language and in such other language as may be
deemed appropriate by the borrower's department or agency concerned, and shall include the
information referred to in the model invitation for bids set forth in the Bank's sample bidding
documents for procurement o f goods and small works.

59.     With due regard to the nature of the civil works to be provided and the goods to be
supplied, the time period for bid submission from the date o f invitation shall be sufficient to
allow potential bidders a reasonable time to prepare and submit their bids. It shall be no less
thanthirty (30) calendar days unlessotherwise agreedwiththe Bank.

B. Eligibility

60.     The eligibility o f bidders and the origin o f goods supplied shall be as defined under the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published by the Bank in
May 2004 (the Guidelines).

61.     Foreignbidders shall be allowed to bid ifthey wishto do so.

62.     Joint ventures between foreign and local firms shall not be a condition for eligibility.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid alone. Nevertheless, foreign bidders may be required to
have a local agenthntermediary inthe borrower'sterritory.

C. Bidding

63.     Inadditionto the invitation for bids, the biddingdocuments shall includethe following:

        0   instructions to bidders, includingthe criteria to be used for bidevaluations

        0   conditions of contract


        0  technical specifications

        0   bidform and price schedules

        0  performance security (ifpossible)

64.     Incase of civil works, the bidding documents shall also include a bill of quantities or a
breakdown of the lump sumprice, as the case may be.




                                                 27

65.    Bids may be expressed in local currency or insuch other foreign currency as may be set
forth in the invitation for bids. Ifthe currency o f payment set forth in the invitation for bids i s
the local currency, the invitations may indicate that there i s no obligation on the part o f the
borrower's department or agency requesting the bids to convert into foreign currency the
amounts to be paid.

66.    Bidding documents shall be prepared inthe local language or in such other language as
may be deemed appropriate by the borrower's department or agency concerned.

67.    Bids may be delivered by courier mail or by hand at the place set forth for such purposes
inthe invitation for bids.

68.    Bids shall be opened publicly to allow representatives o f the bidders to attend if they so
desire. Bids shall not be modified after the opening o f bids except to correct arithmetical errors.
All bids shall be opened at the same time.

69.    Bids may not be rejected for the sole purpose o f obtaining lower bids. The borrower
shall consult with the Bank prior to rejecting all bids or soliciting new bids. All bids may not be
rejected and new bids invited on the same specifications solely for the purposes o f obtaining
lower prices, except in cases where the lowest evaluated bid exceeds the cost estimates by a
substantial amount. In such cases the borrower may, as an alternative to rebidding and with the
prior concurrence o f the Bank, negotiate with the lowest evaluated bidder to try to obtain a
satisfactory contract and, failing a satisfactory response, with the next lowest evaluated bidder.
Rejection o f all bids may be permissible when bids are not substantially responsive or in case o f
a lack o f effective competition.

70.     In the comparison of bids between local and foreign bidders, no domestic or regional
preference to local bidders shall apply. Bids shall be compared on the basis o f delivered price,
inclusive o f any prevailing duties.

71.     Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Price negotiation
with bidders shall not be undertaken before the contract is awarded except as provided in
paragraph 68 above.

72.     The award o f contract shall be made within the period specified in the bidding
documents. This period shall be determined in each case (goods or works) depending on the
complexity o fthe contract and the approval.

73.     A bid evaluation report shall be prepared by the borrower's department or agency
requesting the bids setting out a record o f all bids submitted, the reasons for disqualification o f
any bids, the criteria, weighing and evaluation o f all responsive bids, the recommended award
and, if recommended award i s to other than the lowest price bidder, the reasons therefore. The
concerned borrower's department or agency shall furnish to the Bank a translation inthe English
language o f such bid evaluation report in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 or Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines.




                                                 28

                                                     ANNEX3: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT                                                                                                                                                           AND DISBURSEMENT                                                                                          ARRANGEMENTS

    A. Country Issues

    74.                                  The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding o f the financial
    management environment in Afghanistan through the large number o f projects under
    implementation over the past two years. This project i s the primary instrument to continue and
    enhance the fiduciary measures put inplace duringthe past two years to ensure transparency and
    accountability for the funding provided by the Bank and other donors. During preparation o f
    PACBP, a detailed review was undertaken o f the effectiveness of its predecessors, EPAP Iand
    11. Lessons have been drawn from this review to strengthen the fiduciary aspects of PACBP.
    These lessons will also feed into the ongoing Country Financial Accountability Assessment to be
    undertaken as part o f an integrated Public ExpenditureReview.

    75.                                  Further details o fthe activities carried out under EPAP Iand I1are included inthe text o f
    the Technical Annex and in Annex 1. In summary, EPAP Iand I1assisted the Government to
    ensure that appropriate fiduciary standards were inplace for public expenditures including those
     supported by the Bank and the donor community.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PACBP will help to ensure that these
     standards are further enhanced and that capacity i s developedwithinthe Government to maintain
     andimprove these fiduciary standards.

     B. RiskAnalysis

     76.                                  The table below identifies the key risks that the project may face andindicates how these
    risks are to be addressed.

                                                                                                                                                                                         Risk
                                                                                Risk                                                                                                Rating                                                                                                             Risk Mitigation Measures
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................TM
    InherentRisk
 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
    Country InherentRisk                                                                                                                                                                       H                               "Ring fencing" ofproject fknds to the extent possible
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
    Project Financial Management Risk                                                                                                                                                           S                              Intensive supervisionby IDA team, including FMspecialists
    PerceivedCorruption                                                                                                                                                                        H                               Govemment commitment, internal controls and new internal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               audit will all help reduce the highrisk of corruption
              OverallInherent Risk                                                                                                                                                             H

................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
    ControlRisk
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
     1. Weak Implementing Entity                                                                                                                                                              M                                Will be supportedby financial managementconsultant
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
    2. Funds Flow                                                                                                                                                                             M                                Follows flow establishedinprevious projects
    3. Staffing Shortages                                                                                                                                                                      H                               New salary levels andrecruitment processesthrough the PRR
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               will assist recruitment
...........................................................................................................................................................................
    4. Accounting Policies and Procedures                                                                                                                                                     M                                 Will follow international standards
    5. Lack o f Internal Audit                                                                                                                                                                M                                Newly-created internal audit departmentwill review project
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                internal control systems
............................................................................................................................................................
    6. Weak External Audit                                                                                                                                                                    M                                 Strengthenedunder the project
                                                                                                                                                            "................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................9
    7. InadequateReporting and Monitoring                                                                                                                                                     M                                 Strengtheningthe SpecialDisbursement Unit(SDU) i s a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               priority for the new financial management consultantto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               provide information that will comply with agreed format of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs); also revisions in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chart of Accounts will facilitate preparation of FMRs
              Overall Control Risk                                                                                                                                                            A4
    Note: Risk rating: H=hip.hrisk: S=substantialrisk: M=modest risk: N=neglinible risk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29

C. StrengthsandWeaknesses

        1. Strengths

77.      The main strength is the Government's commitment to accountability andtransparency in
its operations which provides assurance to the Bank and other donors that the measures in place
to ensure appropriate utilization o f funds will not be circumvented. The Government support for
PACBP i s a strength in itself, given its focus on improving financial management within
Treasury operations, the public procurement function, the internal audit function, and the
external audit functions o f the Auditor General.

         2. Weaknesses

78.      The main weakness in this project, as in many others in Afghanistan, i s the ability to
attract suitably qualified and experienced counterpart staff. Reform o f the terms and conditions
o f civil service work i s ongoing through the PRR and other processes. These reforms, coupled
with the intensive training programs included in the project, are expected to improve the
situation.

         3. Implementing Entities

79.      Although the major recipient i s within the MOF, there are three implementing entities for
the project located inthree agencies that will require close coordination:

         e   Directorates o f the Treasury and Internal Audit inMOF


         0   ProcurementUnitinARDS/PPU

             C A O

The required coordination will be assuredthrough a project oversight committee.

         4. Funds Flow

80.      The flow o f funds will be similar to previous projects inAfghanistan. Project funds will
be deposited in the SA to be opened and maintained at DAB or in a local commercial bank.
Capacity interms o f delivery o f service and charges for the services will have to be assessed by
the M O F and arrangements formalized before moving from the existing practice o f placing this
account in DAB. The SA, in keeping with current practices for other projects in Afghanistan,
will be operated by the SDU inthe Treasury Department o f the MOF. Requests for payments
out of SA funds will be made to the SDU by the relevant implementing entities.

81.      Inaddition to paymentsout of SA funds, the implementingentities could also request the
SDU to make direct payments to consultants or consulting firmshwinning partners, and special
commitments for contracts covered by letters o f credit. Such requests will follow World Bank
procedures. Consolidation o f this information from the implementing entities will be done in



                                                  30

SDU. It i s expected that all implementing entities will undertake a monthly reconciliation o f
data with SDU.

82.     Most project payments are expected to be made to either international or local firms
which have bank accounts in either DAB, a local commercial bank, or an overseas bank. All
project payments will be made either through bank transfers into the account o f such firms or by
way o f check payment with account details written on the check.

        5. Retroactive Financing

83.     Retroactive financing, not exceeding US$ 3.0 million equivalent, i s envisaged for
expenditures incurred inaccordance with Bank's procurement procedures duringthe four months
prior to the grant signing date.

84.     Most specifically, but not exclusively, at the Government's request the project will
retroactively finance consultant's services for the ARDS procurement facilitation component o f
approximately US$ 500,000 (two percent o f the total IDA grant amount), for expenditures
incurred subsequent to November 1, 2004 and prior to signing o f the Grant Agreement. SDU
and ARDS will jointly maintain a proper accounting of all expenditures incurred in the above
manner, along with all the supporting documents to enable IDA to verify these expenditures.

        6. Staffing

85.     The Treasury and CAO office i s staffed with existing governmental staff supported by
local and international consultants. The Internal Audit Department o f the M O F i s inthe process
of recruiting staff under PRR. The ARDS Procurement Unit i s currently staffed by local
consultants recruited by ARDS and paid for under EPAP I.It i s expected that these staff will
transfer to Government budget salaries under PRR inthe nextbudget.

86.     Efforts are also being made in Treasury to bring local consultant staff on to the
Government payroll either through the PRR process by offering super scales or through the
lateral entry program o f Government for more skilled/qualified local Afghan staff. Some o f the
local consultant staff may be available for hire by the new financial management consultant.

        7. Accounting Policies and Procedure

87.     The project will follow standard governmental financial management policies and
procedures. It will use the Chart o f Accounts which has been developed for previous projects
and which i s currently being upgraded. Project accounts will be consolidated centrally in the
MOF through the SDU in the Treasury.            Consolidated project financial statements will be
prepared for all sources and uses o f project funds.

        8. Internal Audit

88.     The project financial management systems will be subject to review by the newly
established Internal Audit Directorate o f the MOF according to work programs to be determined
by the Director o f Internal Audit.



                                                 31

        9. ExternalAudit

89.     An audit waiver was given in the first year of EPAP Iprimarily because all payments
were made directly to firms and supported by invoices and details. Inthe second year, a limited
scope audit o f the ARDS runningcost funded out o f EPAP Ihas been requested. IDA retains the
right to have the project accounts audited by the Auditor General, supported by the audit
consultant funded under the project. Terms o f reference for the audit will be satisfactory to IDA
and will include audit o f the project financial statements, the SA, and statements o f expenditures
(SOEs). The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six
months o f the end o f each fiscal year. The Audit Report Compliance System (ARCS) will track
the following for PACBP:

  ImplementingAgency               Audit                     Auditors              Due Date
          MOF             Special Account, Project        Auditor General         September 21
                             Financial Statements


        I O . Reporting and Monitoring

90.     FMRs will be used for project monitoring and supervision. FMRs are prepared centrally
in SDU with Development Budget and External Relations Department (DBER) being
responsible for consolidating the reports for donors. These current FMRs are produced based on
records kept on Excel spreadsheets because the present Chart o f Accounts i s incapable o f
capturing data based on components. The Government is inthe process o f revising the Chart o f
Accounts with advice from IDA, which will facilitate the production o f timely, accurate, and
more meaningful FMRs.

91.     A review o fthe FMRsprepared to date on IDA projects reveals that SDU has not been in
a position to provide the necessary information relating to component-wise expenditure as well
as correct category-wise breakdown. Strengthening the SDUto enable it to perform its functions
effectively will be one o f the priorities o f the financial management consultant until such time as
line ministries can effectively carry out this function.

92.     Quarterly FMRs will be produced showing:                (i)sources and uses of funds by
disbursement category and project component; (ii)physical progress; and (iii)status o f
procurement activities. The implementing entities will forward the relevant details to SDU for
consolidation and submission to IDA within 45 days o f the end o f each quarter.                 The
Government and IDA are currently working on a proforma FMRfor all Bank projects.

93.     Annual project accounts will be consolidated in the MOF, in the Treasury Department,
supported by the financial management consultant. Consolidated project financial statements
will beprepared for all sources and uses o fproject funds.




                                                     32

                             12. Allocation of Grant Proceeds

94.                          Financing Percentage. The financing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Amount                                       Financing
percentage is set at 100 percent as per the                                                                                                                                                                                                          ExpenditureCategory                                                                                             (US$m) Percentage
approved "Country Financing Parameters."                                                                                                                                                                                          .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Goods and Works                                                                                                                                    .80                               100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Consultants' Servicesand                                                                                                                 24.00                                       100%
95.                          Disbursement Method. Disbursements                                                                                                                                                                     .....................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Training

from the IDA credit would be transaction-based                                                                                                                                                                                     ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Operational Costs                                                                                                                                 .50                                100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Unallocated                                                                                                                                    1.70                                  100%
(replenishment,                                                                              reimbursement,                                                                                    direct                                  Total                                                                                                                                    27.00
-payment,
     -                                              and                             payments                                                   under                                   Special
Commitments) with full documentation or against SOEs as appropriate.

96.                           Use of SOEs. Disbursementswill be made on the basis of SOEs for: (i)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                contracts for
civil works costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent; (ii)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      contracts for goods costing less than
US$ 100,000 equivalent; (iii)                                                                                                             contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$ 50,000
equivalent; and (iv) contracts for consultant firms costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent and
training and incremental operating costs.

97.                          Special Account. An SA will be opened and maintained inDAB or a commercial bank
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and would be operated by the Treasury
Department in MOF in accordance with the Association's operational policies. The authorized
allocation of the SA would be set not to exceedUS$ 1,000,000.

98.                          Minimum application size. Applications for replenishment to the SA will be submitted:
(a) at least monthly regardless of amount, or (b) when the SA balance is reduced by 40 percent,
whichever comes first.                                                                                                        The minimum application size for withdrawal applications for
reimbursement,direct payment, or for applications for Special Commitments is US$ 200,000.

99.                          Authority to withdraw credit funds.                                                                                                                                                            MOF will retain the right to sign and submit
withdrawal applications to the Association basedon the requests received from the implementing
agencies.

                              12. Action Plan

                                                                                 Action                                                                                                                                         ResponsiblePerson                                                                                                                             TargetDate
 .....
    F,MR..foEats.co?firmed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................P
                                                                                                                                                                                                   IDAiMOF(DBER)                                                                                                                                     At negotiations
     Govemment is revisingits CAO, whichwill                                                                                                                                                       IDAiMOF                                                                                                                                           By end ofthis fiscal
     facilitate the productionoftimely and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           year
     accurateFMRs; IDA will provide advice to
 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
     facilitate this revision
     Efforts to be made for retentionof local                                                                                                                                                      MOF(Treasury)iCAOIARSS/CSC                                                                                                                        During transitionphase
  ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................s
     Afghan staff working for the present agents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ofthe new agents

 100.                          With these agreements and the systems already in place, the financial management
arrangements are considered to be adequate to meet the Bank's requirements.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33

                                              ANNEX4. MONITORING

      Goals                                                 Monitoring Indicators
Improvements        Regulatory Framework, New budget law and financial regulations promulgated and under
inpublic sector     implementation; new audit law andregulations promulgated and under implementation.
financial
management          Systems Development. Key businessprocesses identified and agreed for core financial
with a focus on     management functions; specific policies, processes, systems and standards established for internal
budget              and external audit functions; plan agreed for a phased implementation o f a hlly functional

execution,          AFMIS throughout Government.
government          H R Capacity. Sustained implementation o fPRR in institutions responsible for core financial
accounting and      management functions; on-the-job and professional training programs inplace and designed to
reporting, and      meet specifically agreed capacity development milestones so that staff can take over operation o f
enhancement of      functionslsystems within defined period o ftime.
internal and
external            Budget Execution. Effectiveness o f cash flow planning, management and monitoring; evidence
controls and        that budgeted resources reach spending units in a timely and transparent manner; effectiveness o f
accountability      internal controls; effectiveness o f internal audit; effectivenesss of payroll controls.
                    Accounting and Reporting. Timeliness andregularity o f data reconciliation; timeliness, quality
                    and dissemination of in-year budget execution reports; timeliness and quality o f audited financial
                    statements submittedto the legislature and donors.
                    External Accountability,Audit and Scrutiny. The scope and nature o f external audit; follow up
                    o f audit reports by the executive or audited entity; legislative scrutiny o f external audit reports.

                   ~


Improved            Regulatory Framework. New public procurement law and regulations promulgated and under
governance in       implementation; establishment o f a procurement policy law at an appropriate hierarchy within
public              Government.
procurement
and increased       Systems Development. Establishment o f procurement functions and performance benchmarks in
efficiency,         line ministries.

transparency,       HR Capacity. Lineministry procurement staff trained and accredited according to agreed
accountability      certification plan; procurement units within line ministriesmeetingperformance benchmarks and
and                 having increased authority for procurement.
competitiveness
o fpublic           Economy, Efficiency and Transparency. Percentage o f contracts subject to competitive bidding;
procurement         absence o f major delays inthe processing and payment o f contracts; comparability o f prices paid
                    bythe public sector to pricing of items available inthe market place; regular publicationo f
                    opportunities and outcomes o f public contracts.




                                                             34



