Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H144-AF 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Public Administration Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 16, 2005 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H144-AF 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 2005, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
AFGHANISTAN (the “Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the “Project”), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the Association has agreed, on the basis of, among other things, the 
foregoing, to extend a grant (the “Grant”) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the 
“General Conditions”), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, commencing on  
March 21 of each calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year; 
 
(c) 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance; and 
 
(d) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Page  3
-2-
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eighteen million, four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 18,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expend-
itures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its central bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States Dollars or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 and 
December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Page  4
-3-
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public administration reform practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as such provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
Page  5
-4-
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and  
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request.  
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and  
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.   
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph B of Schedule 4
 
to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which:  
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds;  
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and  
Page  6
-5-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.  
 
(b) 
The first financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each financial 
monitoring report shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Recipient’s Minister of Finance, or an official authorized for 
this purpose by the Minister of Finance, is designated as representative of the Recipient 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
Page  7
-6-
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kabul, Afghanistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Anwar-ul-Haq 
Ahadi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
  /s/ Alastair J. McKechnie 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-7-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each category: 
 
Amount of the   
 
 
        
 
  
Grant Allocated  
 
                   % of 
          
 
(Expressed 
in 
 
   Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Consulta
nts’ 
   16,350,000 
 
 
100% 
services and 
training  
 
(2) Goods                                
410,000 
 
100% 
(3) Works 
 
140,000 
 
100% 
 
(4) Incremental Operating Costs    
340,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
1,160,000 
 
100% 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
    18,400,000
2. 
For the purposes of this schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
incremental recurrent expenditures on account of the Project for per diems, office 
supplies, vehicle rental charges (including passenger insurance), government motorcycle 
and vehicle operating charges (fuel, maintenance and insurance), maintenance of office 
equipment, telephone and other communication charges, office rent, insurance, banking 
charges, utility charges, domestic travel expenses and salaries of contract staff, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil and public service, for Afghanistan 
Research and Development Services, up to June 30, 2005. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of one 
million nine hundred and sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR1, 960,000), may 
be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date, but after November 1, 2004. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
Page  9
-8-
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (e) training; and (f) Incremental Operating 
Costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.
 
Page  10
-9-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to continue to assist the Recipient, on an 
emergency basis, to develop the capacity to manage public expenditures in an effective, 
transparent and accountable manner, in order to achieve satisfactory and sustainable 
development outcomes in Afghanistan. The project will have a particular emphasis on 
enhancing the performance of public sector procurement, financial management, internal 
audit and external audit systems. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon in writing from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Strengthening public procurement capacity
Technical assistance, training, goods, works, and incremental operating costs for 
implementation of public procurement reforms and capacity building. 
 
Part B
:
Strengthening Financial Management Operations
Technical advisory services, training, goods, and works to help upgrade and 
strengthen the financial-management functions within Ministry of Finance and line 
ministries so as to improve budget execution and reporting.  
 
Part C
:
Strengthening
 
Internal Audit Operations
Technical advisory services, training, goods and works to develop an effective 
internal audit function and strengthen the Recipient’s internal-audit capacity. 
 
Part D
:
Strengthening External Audit Operations
Technical advisory services, training, goods and works to build capacity within 
the Control and Audit Office in the Ministry of Finance.  
 
Part E
:
Other Institutional Strengthening
Technical assistance and capacity building to support public administration 
reform.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  11
-10-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The terms beginning with capital letters that are used below in this Schedule to 
describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, 
or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding and the procedures set out in the annex to this 
schedule. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
4. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Force Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
said procurement method.  
 
Page  12
-11-
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
.
Small works estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under either of the following methods: 
 
(a) 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; and 
 
(b) 
 in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual by employing labor and procuring 
construction materials through shopping by inviting quotations from local vendors. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
A. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
 
Page  13
-12-
(i)  
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more;  
 
(ii)  
each contract of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more; 
 
(iii) 
each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and 
 
(iv) 
each contract for selection of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
 
B. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  14
-13-
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding 
 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in 
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid. 
 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
 
Page  15
-14-
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the 
award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association; 
 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
 
(xvi) 
Re-bidding shall not be car
ried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence; and 
 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for implementing: (i) Part A of the 
Project with the Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services and the Procurement 
Policy Unit (entities in the Recipient’s government that shall exercise joint responsibility); 
(ii) Parts B, C and E of the Project with the Ministry of Finance; and 
 
(iii) Part D of the Project with the Control and Audit Office. 
 
2. 
The allocations of responsibility contained in paragraph (A)(1) of this 
Schedule may be changed by the Recipient only with the Association’s written consent. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Ministry of Finance to coordinate the 
implementation of the Project and prepare the reports referred to under paragraphs B (b)(i) 
and B (b)(ii) of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed in writing between 
the Association and the Recipient at the date of execution of this agreement, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing
 
the quarter ending on March 31, 
2005, a report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) on or about June 30, 2006, a report, to 
constitute the basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph and consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (b)(i) 
of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, not later than August 31, 2006, or such later 
date as the Association shall reasonably request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) 
of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Categories” means categories (1) to (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services, goods, and works required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
Page  18
-17-
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
Page  19
-18-
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  20
-19-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(d)    
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions 
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally applicable 
to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject to any modifications set 
forth in such agreement.”  
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial Payment”. 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the 
Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
Page  21
-20-
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it 
under the Development Grant Agreement in the currency 
specified in such agreement or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the  
currency or currencies so withdrawn.”  
 
(d) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under 
the Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient.” 
 
