Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1059 
Project Name 
Public Admin Capacity Building Project 3 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P084736 
Borrower(s) 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Afghanistan 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 17, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 28, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 27, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (IRoA) has requested that IDA prepare a repeater project in 
order to provide follow on assistance to the program of support for public administration under 
the First and Second Emergency Public Administration Projects (EPAP I and II).  EPAP I and II 
were core elements of IDA’s first and second Transitional Strategies in Afghanistan.  They 
provided the underpinning fiduciary arrangements for the whole IDA portfolio through putting in 
place emergency capacity in financial management, procurement and audit.  This enabled IDA to 
reactivate operations with Afghanistan very quickly in the post conflict period.  In addition, 
IDA’s early support in these core fiduciary areas has allowed the government to quickly build 
credibility with donors as to their ability to manage donor and own resources in an effective 
manner.  This is reflected in the increasing numbers of donors prepared to channel funds either 
directly through the Treasury or via ARTF.   
 
In order to maintain and expand upon the progress already made under EPAP I and II, the IRoA 
has requested IDA to prepare a repeater project as quickly as possible.  The 
Third Public 
Administration Capacity Building Project (PACBP3) 
would continue to provide technical 
assistance for operational support in procurement, financial management and audit.  However, 
the government has requested that IDA’s engagement in the next phase be broadened and 
deepened with an increased focus on: 
 
(i) 
developing the regulatory and institutional framework in these core fiduciary 
management areas;  
(ii) 
further systems development that is based on a full understanding of medium term 
requirements and the country’s implementation capacity; and, 
Page  2
(iii) 
capacity building and training in the central agencies, but also in line ministries and 
the provinces so that staff can maintain and operate systems independently and 
effectively. 
 
Achievements under this project are critical to the success of the whole Bank portfolio as well as 
the functioning of Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund.  IDA’s continued engagement in this 
area is essential to the government’s overall objectives of building transparent, efficient and 
effective governance arrangements.  The experience under EPAP I and II positions IDA to 
embark on the next phase of assistance with a broader perspective and understanding of the 
existing government capacity in these core functions and with a realistic appreciation of the 
possible pace of expansion and development.  
 
A
repeater operation is judged to be the best instrument for building upon the experiences gained 
so far and to allow for a transition to a program of medium term capacity building within 
government.  The project will continue to support the core areas covered under EPAP I and II but 
will extend capacity building efforts in a more systematic way throughout government, including 
to line ministries and provinces, and within an institutional framework that lays the basis for long 
term sustainability. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overall objective of the project is to assist the authorities to develop the capacity to 
effectively manage public expenditures in order to achieve satisfactory and sustainable 
development outcomes in Afghanistan.  The project will have a particular focus on enhancing the 
performance of public sector procurement, financial management and accountability systems.   
 
Success in meeting the project’s objective will be measured not only by the delivery of goods, 
services and works, or the provision of accurate accounting, reporting and auditing of budget and 
donor funds, but also by the degree to which government staff in central, line and 
provincial/district ministries are managing core financial management, procurement and audit 
systems themselves.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Component 1:  Building Procurement Capacity within Government 
 
Centralized procurement management capacity will be required for the medium term to facilitate 
the smooth implementation of the reconstruction program in Afghanistan.  At the same time, 
there is a need to accelerate the procurement capacity building process within line ministries so 
that they can progressively be accredited with increased delegated authority for procurement 
management within a structured and agreed institutional and legal framework. Activities will 
include: 
 
·
Central Procurement consultant services to government to continue provide direct 
procurement advice to line ministries; 
Page  3
·
Capacity building technical assistance for line ministries to establish proper procurement 
function, as well as for the private sector. 
 
·
Technical assistance for the implementation of the new procurement law and establishment 
of a procurement policy unit. 
Component 2: Strengthening Financial Management Capacity  
 
The Financial Management component will build on the assistance provided to the Treasury 
under EPAP I and II with the objective of assisting MoF and line ministries attain higher levels 
of efficiency in budget execution and financial reporting.  Activities will include: 
 
·
Financial Management Consultant support to the Treasury, for a further three years, to 
strengthen core Treasury functions including accounting and reporting, cash management, 
payroll processing, grant management and payment processing 
–
separating out operational 
support components from training and capacity building components that can potentially be 
handled by different teams and at different rates;   
 
·
Conduct of a 
comprehensive financial management information systems architecture study
 
to 
determine a framework for the implementation of an integrated financial management 
information system over the medium to long term;   
 
·
Technical assistance to strengthening the financial management regulatory framework for 
Government – including drafting needed regulations and policies based on the new Public 
Expenditure and Financial Management law; 
 
·
Expansion of AFMIS functions within MoF and progressive rollout to provinces and line 
ministries as appropriate. 
 
Component 3:  Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity 
 
The EPAP mid term review identified the need to strengthen internal audit functions within 
government, as part of the effort to strengthen the government’s overall financial management 
and accountability framework.  The objective is to establish an effective internal audit service 
which will help improve the development of the public internal control environment and the 
establishment of sound financial management within the public sector. Activities under this 
component would include: 
 
·
Technical advisory and capacity building support to the Internal Audit function in the 
Ministry of Finance and line ministries in audit operations, on-the-job training and 
development of the regulatory environment.   
 
Component 4:  Strengthening External Audit Capacity within Government 
 
The External Audit component will continue to provide support to the Control and Audit Office 
to strengthen their capacity to provide comprehensive auditing services in accordance with 
Page  4
INTOSAI Auditing Standards. 
 
Several new activities will be added to help strengthen the 
overall audit environment.  
 
·
Audit Consultant support for a further three years, separating operational support 
components from training and capacity building components that can potentially be 
handled by different teams and at different rates;   
 
·
Technical assistance to help strengthen professional accounting and audit standards and 
capacity throughout the country; 
·
Technical assistance to help develop the system for scrutiny and response to audit reports 
including responses by involved ministries and scrutiny by a legislative Public Accounts 
Committee. 
Component 5:  Other Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building  
 
This component is included to cover any unforeseen requests for TA or analytical work in areas 
related to the overall objective. In particular, the government has requested funds be available to 
follow up on several possible initiatives including: 
 
·
Technical assistance to support the Ministry of Finance (in the first instance) manage the 
design and delivery of technical assistance to government; 
·
Further support for the IARCSC in the management of the Public Administration Reform 
program; and 
·
Broad based training for the Ministry of Finance and line ministries as a result of ongoing 
reforms to the financial management framework within government.   
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Anne Tully 
Title: Country Officer 
Tel: 5232+311 
Fax:  
Email: Atully@worldbank.org 
Location: Kabul, Afghanistan (IBRD)
Page  5
