                                Document of
                              The World Bank


                                                       Report No: ICR 01325



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA H1440)


                                    ON A GRANT
                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.4 MILLION
                         ( US$27.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT )


                                    TO THE

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                   FOR THE

             PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT



                                November, 2009




Financial Management Unit
South Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENT

            (Exchange rate is Kabul based open market buying rate
                           effective June 30, 2009)

                              Currency Unit =Afs
                              US$ 1 = 50.07 Afs

                       GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                             March 21 ­ March 20



                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



AFMIS     Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
ANDS      Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ARDS      Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services
ARTF      Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
APR       Annual Performance Review
CAO       Control and Audit Office
CKP       Charles Kendall Partners
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
EPAP      Emergency Public Administration Project
FM        Financial Management
GOA       Government of Afghanistan
IARCSC    Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission
I-ANDS    Interim ­ Afghanistan National Development Strategy
IDA       International Development Association
INTOSAI   International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
ISA       International Standards of Auditing
LMs       Line Ministries
MIS       Management Information System
M&EU      Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MOE       Ministry of Economy
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOJ       Ministry of Justice
MTFF      Medium Term Fiscal Framework
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
OTJ       On the job training
PACB      Public Administration Capacity Building
PAR       Public Administration Reform
PFEM      Public Finance and Expenditure Management (Law)
PFM       Public Financial Management
PFMR      Public Financial Management Reform
PPU       Procurement Policy Unit
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility

                                       2
PRR       Priority Reform and Restructuring
PSIB      Programmatic Support for Institutional Building
RIMU      Reform Implementation Management Unit
SAR       South Asia Region
SBD       Standard Bidding Documents
SDU       Special Disbursements Unit
TA        Technical Annex
WB        World Bank


               Vice President   :   Isabel Guerrero
            Country Director:   :   Nicholas Krafft
       Acting Sector Manager    :   Pazhayannur K. Subramanian
        Project Team Leader     :   Paul Edwin Sisk
            ICR Team Leader     :   Paul Edwin Sisk




                                          3
                              ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

            PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                                      CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes................................................. 11

3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 14

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 22

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.......................................................... 23

6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 27

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 28

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 30

Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 31

Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 35

Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 37

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR ............................................................................ 39

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents........................................................................... 48




                                                               4
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Public Admin Cpacity
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:
                                                                           Building Project
Project ID:             P084736                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H1440
ICR Date:               11/25/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     TAL                      Borrower:
                                                                           OF AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 18.4M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 18.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 18.4M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
 Control and Audit Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process                Date           Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/11/2004      Effectiveness:             05/02/2005        05/02/2005
Appraisal:            10/05/2004      Restructuring(s):                           02/27/2007
Approval:             01/27/2005      Mid-term Review:           08/30/2006       10/19/2006
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2009       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     80                  95
Law and justice                                                       15
Sub-national government administration                                 5                     5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                  10
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      67                  90
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                   Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Pazhayannur K. Subramanian           Robert J. Saum
Project Team Leader:       Paul Edwin Sisk                      Anne Tully
ICR Team Leader:           Paul Edwin Sisk
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the project is to assist the authorities to develop the capacity to
manage public expenditures in an effective, transparent and accountable manner in order
to achieve satisfactory and sustainable development outcomes in Afghanistan. The
project will have a particular focus on enhancing the performance of public sector
procurement, financial management, and accountability systems.



                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To enhance the performance of public sector procurement, financial management, and
accountability systems which will contribute to a more effective, transparent and
accountable state. This will be accomplished through operational support for treasury,
internal audit and external audit, and procurement functions, the reform in the related
regulatory framework and where feasible, capacity building.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values         Target Years
                Regulatory Framework. New budget law and financial regulations, procurement
Indicator 1 : law and regulations and audit law and regulations all promulgated and under
                implementation.
                                          Public Finance and                   Procurement,
                                          Expenditure                          PFEM laws and
                                          Management                           regulations in place.
Value
                Inconsistent or outdated (PFEM),                               Updated Audit draft
quantitative or
                legal framework.          Procurement and                      law will be sent to
Qualitative)
                                          Audit Laws with                      the Ministry of
                                          regulations in                       Justice (MoJ) in
                                          place.                               2009.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                  06/30/2009                           04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Systems Dev Financial Management (FM). Key business process identified and
Indicator 2 : agreed for core financial management functions; specific policies, processes,
                systems and stds established for internal and external audit follow-up.
                                          Accounting
                                          centralized but
                                                                               AFMIS now in 12
                                          accessed by 1 line
                                                                               provinces and all
                Centralized systems in    ministries and 1
                                                                               line ministries. IA
                place but under question; moustoufiat. All
                                                                               Dept. recruited 120
Value           no plan for AFMIS roll- procedures agreed
                                                                               staff, now training
quantitative or out and no IA systems     and documented in
                                                                               under on the job
Qualitative)    working and no            an Accounting
                                                                               training (OTJ).
                procedures for follow-up Manual.Internal
                                                                               Accounting and IA
                of audit findings.        Audit procedures
                                                                               Manual approved
                                          and f/up
                                                                               and released.
                                          procedures for Ex
                                          Audit done.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                  06/30/2009                           04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Human Resource (HR)Capacity FM. Sustained implementation of Priority


                                                iii
                Restructuring and Reform (PRR) in institutions responsible for financial
                management functions.
                                                                              PRR complete in
                                                                              Treasury w/Fin
                                            Treasury,
                                                                              Controllers, all
                                            including
                PRR initiated in Treasury                                     posts in the CAO
Value                                       Financial
                but not in Internal Audit;                                    and IA of MoF
quantitative or                             Controllers,
                no capacity in PRR staff                                      PRR'd. Key staff
Qualitative)                                Internal Audit and
                to run FM systems.                                            under OTJ program
                                            CAO all operating
                                                                              but tend to go to
                                            under PRR.
                                                                              NGOs with new
                                                                              skills.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                    06/30/2009                        04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Budget Execution. Effectiveness of cash flow planning, management, and
Indicator 4 :
                monitoring
                                            Weekly cash                       Monthly forecast
                                            position report and               prepared and
                                            forecast for quarter              reviewed by Cash
Value
                No cash planning or         report automated                  Committee.
quantitative or
                forecasts prepared.         and linked to                     Provincial transfers
Qualitative)
                                            centralized data                  go out 5 days
                                            base of signed                    earlier than prior
                                            contracts.                        years.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                    06/30/2009                        04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                External Audit. The scope and nature of external audit; follow up of audit reports
Indicator 5 :
                by the executive or entity.
                                                                              Projects and
                                                                              Afghanistan
                                            Audit of World                    Reconstrution Trust
                                            Bank (WB)                         Fund (ARTF)
                                            projects and state                Recurrent Trust
                Financial statement audit budget statements                   Fund financial
Value           of state budget not done done to the                          statement done to
quantitative or to any acceptable           International                     INTOSAI
Qualitative)    standard; little follow-up Organization of                    standards. State
                to audit findings.          Supreme Audit                     budget statement
                                            Institutions                      1386 presented to
                                            (INTOSAI)                         Parliament but not
                                            standards                         audited to
                                                                              international
                                                                              standards.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                    06/30/2009                        04/30/2009
Comments



                                                iv
(incl. %
achievement)
                System Development Procurement. Establishment of procurement functions and
Indicator 6 :
                performance benchmarks in line ministries
                                           Procurement                      The firm Charles
                                           functions and                    Kendal Partners
Value           Line ministries had not
                                           performance                      (CKP) has
quantitative or begun reform of
                                           benchmarks for 6                 completed proposal
Qualitative)    procurement.
                                           ministries                       for PRR of 7 line
                                           established.                     ministries.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                   06/30/2009                       04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                HR Capacity. Line ministry procurement staff training and accreditation and
Indicator 7 :
                certification program in place.
                                                                            CKP has trained 6
                                           Training program                 trainers, done needs
                                           in all 6 line                    assessment and
Value
                                           ministries chosen                trained 1065 staff.
quantitative or No accredited staff.
                                           for procurement                  Standard bidding
Qualitative)
                                           training is                      documents
                                           underway.                        completed and
                                                                            reviewed by WB.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                   06/30/2009                       04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Economy, Efficiency, Transparency. Percentages of contracts subject to
Indicator 8 :
                competitive bidding/
                                                                            Monitoring by
                                                                            Procurement Policy
                                                                            Unit (PPU) to
                                                                            commence after
Value                                                                       Management
quantitative or 60%                        80%                              Information System
Qualitative)                                                                (MIS)
                                                                            implementation.
                                                                            MIS development
                                                                            advanced but not
                                                                            complete.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                   06/30/2009                       04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Accounting and Reporting. Timeliness and regularity of data reconciliation, of in
Indicator 9 :
                year budget execution reports, and audited statements.
Value           No reliable reconciliation Bank                             Bank
quantitative or of Line Ministry (LM)      reconciliation done              Reconciliations


                                               v
Qualitative)      allotment records and       within one month,                now up to date. In-
                  annual statement from       Qatia statement                  year budget
                  Treasury. In-year budget completed                           reporting reliable as
                  reports reliable and timely annually and state               it is reconciled to
                  with some delay of          budget done to                   Line Ministry
                  provincial expenditure. acceptable                           monthly. State
                                              standards.                       budget statement
                                                                               (Qatia) for 1386
                                                                               audited and sent to
                                                                               parliament,
                                                                               reconciled with
                                                                               LMs.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                     06/30/2009                        04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Legal framework to be developed
                                                                               Procurement and
                                                                               FM law enacted
                                       FM and
Value                                                                          and regulations in
                Framework inconsistent Procurement law
(quantitative                                                                  place. Audit draft
                or outdated.           and regulations in
or Qualitative)                                                                law in MoJ.
                                       place.
                                                                               Enforcement better
                                                                               in 1386 than 1385.
Date achieved 01/01/2005              06/30/2009                               04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : System Study completed and ITC plan agreed.
                                                                               System study
Value           No plan for systems          Plan for IT to be                 completed,
(quantitative   development or               developed and                     recommendations
or Qualitative) deconcentration.             initiated by MoF.                 under
                                                                               implementation.
Date achieved     01/01/2005                 06/30/2009                        04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Counterparts staff positions filled in Treasury under PRR.
Value             Only 3 of 17 middle        All positions in                  All middle mgmt in
(quantitative     mgmt positions filled      Treasury mgmt                     Treasury filled. Still
or Qualitative)   with civil servants in     filled with civil                 key tasks done by


                                                  vi
              Treasury.                                                   servants.                       30 local advisors.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                                                  06/30/2009                      04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                               Actual
                                         Date ISR
No.                                                            DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                         Archived
                                                                                                           (USD millions)
  1                                      06/08/2005        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
                                                                                     Moderately
  2                                      04/12/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                                          4.57
                                                                                   Unsatisfactory
  3                                      06/26/2006   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               4.57
  4                                      01/17/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              10.19
  5                                      06/17/2007       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     14.88
  6                                      11/29/2007       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     18.30
  7                                      06/23/2008       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     23.36
  8                                      12/18/2008       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     26.92
  9                                      06/02/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     27.98


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Align PDOs intended goal with
 02/27/2007       Y       S       S          11.05
                                                     project activities


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                              Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile
      http://projportal.worldbank .org
      /shared/SiteReso urces/ICR/D IS
      B_CHA RT/P084736.png




                                                                              vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector Background: Afghanistan is a poor country ravaged by a quarter of century
of conflict and political instability. The country had achieved much since December 2001, when
the Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) was inaugurated in Kabul. Picking up the reins of
governance a t that po int, the A IA w as c onfronted with an e conomy reeling from pr otracted
conflict a nd d rought, m ore t han five m illion p eople d isplaced as r efugees i n ne ighboring
countries, economic activities steered in an informal or illicit direction by insecurity, and a state
that ha d be come v irtually non f unctional i n t erms of pol icy m aking a nd s ervice de livery ­
although t he s tructures a nd m any s taff r emained. T he a chievements t hat ha d be en m ade
subsequently were significant, and in Afghanistan's context, remarkable.

Afghanistan's economy had performed strongly in 2003 and 2004 with non-drug GDP reaching
US$4.6 billion i n 2003/04 (corresponding t o a G DP pe r c apita of about U S$ 200 pe r year), a n
increase of almost 50%, albeit from a very low base. This solid performance was supported by
the g overnment's sound m acroeconomic polices - a hi ghly s uccessful c urrency r eform i n late
2002, a p rudent no ov erdraft po licy pr ohibiting dom estic f inancing of the budg et de ficit,
conservative monetary pol icy a nd g ood management of t he exchange r ate. P rogress ha d be en
made in mobilizing domestic resources as well as donor assistance in support of the government's
medium term development program, with expenditures financed by external assistance increasing
to above U S$ 2 bi llion in 2003/ 04. The g overnment ha d a lso m ade c onsiderable progress in
formulating the budget and developing a medium-term expenditure framework.
The above a chievements not w ithstanding, t he c hallenges remained e normous i n i mproving
security t hroughout t he c ountry, r eestablishing na tional u nity, de veloping i nstitutions w ith a
capacity to formulate and implement policies, reaching out to provinces to collect revenues and
deliver s ervices, a nd i mplementing t he government's l ong term vision f or the f uture o f
Afghanistan.
Rationale for Bank assistance: Both t he first a nd s econd Transitional S upport S trategies f or
Afghanistan ha d emphasized the n eed for A fghans to be i n the d river's s eat w ith r egard t o
managing t he r econstruction a nd de velopment pr ocess. U nder the g overnment's s teadfast
direction, donors had increasingly s upported g overnment p rograms and a ccepted the budg et as
the instrument for managing donor resources. In parallel, the government had to demonstrate its
ability to manage resources in an effective and transparent manner, with an increasing emphasis
on rules-based economic governance and effective capacity building.

In s upport o f these o bjectives, a nd w ithin t he g overnance a nd pu blic administration reform
agenda, t he Bank's strategy ha d been to identify pr agmatic opportunities for action i n the short
term, i nitiating a s et o f i mmediate r eforms w hich w ould be supportive of l onger t erm
improvements in public administration. It had entailed: (i) ensuring that emergency capacity is in
place ­ especially i n k ey f iduciary a reas ­ w hile launching m edium t erm c apacity bui lding
efforts; (ii) undertaking extensive diagnostic work along with ongoing technical and policy advice
to identify and address key constraints; (iii) identifying short-term goals that are fully owned by
government and agreed with all major donors; and (iv) providing gap financing when needed.

                                                  5
The f irst a nd s econd E mergency P ublic A dministration P rojects (EPAP I a nd I I) pr imarily
supported the first a nd second prongs of t he above strategy. O ther B ank i nstruments, including
analytical w ork a nd p olicy d ialogue in a dministrative re form, a s w ell a s th e P rogrammatic
Support for Institution Building (PSIB) adjustment operation, have supported the third and fourth
components.

This strategy initially focused on achieving progress in the governance and public administration
reform area through quick-wins, and in ways that did not undermine medium-term goals. As the
Bank had engaged in an increasingly substantive policy dialogue with the government in the area
of a dministrative r eform, a pr ogressive s hift had b een m ade t owards supporting medium-term
solutions to b uild capacity w ithin g overnment, i ncluding: (i) s upport for t he br oader pub lic
expenditure legislative r eform a genda covering budg et, pr ocurement, a nd a udit laws; (ii)
strengthening s ub-national governance t hrough t he A fghanistan Stabilization P rogram; ( iii)
ministry rationalization; (iv) reforming pay and payroll systems; and (v) strengthening financial
control, reporting, audit and procurement systems.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The ov erall objective of t he Public Administration Capacity Building Project (PACBP) was t o
assist t he a uthorities to develop t he c apacity t o m anage public expenditures in a n e ffective,
transparent and accountable manner in order to achieve satisfactory and sustainable development
outcomes in Afghanistan. The project will have a particular focus on enhancing the performance
of public sector procurement, financial management, and accountability systems.

Key Indicators were:

    ·   New budget law and financial regulations promulgated and under implementation
    ·   Key business processes identified and agreed for financial management functions
    ·   Specific policies and standards established for internal and external audit functions
    ·   Plan agreed f or a pha sed implementation of a f ully functional A fghanistan Financial
        Management Information System (AFMIS) throughout government
    ·   Sustained i mplementation of Priority Reform and Restructuring ( PRR) i n Treasury,
        Internal Audit and External Audit
    ·   Effectiveness of cash flow planning, management and monitoring
    ·   Timeliness and regularity of data reconciliation; and reporting
    ·   Timeliness of payroll and payment processing
    ·   Effectiveness of internal controls
    ·   An effective internal audit function is in operation
    ·   Timeliness and quality of audited financial statements submitted to donor and legislative
        authorities
    ·   Follow up on audit reports by executive or audited entity.
    ·   New public procurement law and regulations promulgated and under implementation.
    ·   Establishment of a p rocurement po licy uni t at an a ppropriate hierarchy w ithin
        government
    ·   Establishment of key policies and standards of procurement performance against which
        the performance of procurement units within ministries can be measured
    ·   Implementation of PRR for procurement function within selected ministries
    ·   Line ministry procurement staff trained and accredited according to agreed certification
        plan.

                                                 6
    ·   Procurement units within line ministries meeting agreed benchmarks for performance and
        achieving delegated authority for procurement over time
    ·   Contracts subject to competitive bidding; absence of major delays in the processing and
        payment of contracts; comparability of prices paid by the public sector to pricing of items
        available in the market place; regular publication of opportunities and outcomes of public
        contracts.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
    reasons/justification

Following t he m id-term r eview t he p roject was r estructured i n February 2007 f or t wo
reasons. First, the project development objective was clarified to reflect the full original
intent of t he G overnment of A fghanistan a nd donors, t o bot h a ssure a hi gh l evel o f
integrity in the management of public sector resources as these were growing rapidly to
finance pos t c onflict r econstruction, a nd t o build c apacity but r ecognizing t hat t his w ill
take much more time than originally envisaged. The change emphasized the priority that
is already being given to meeting this goal through all of the means provided for in the
project. It r educed t he f ocus on m eeting t his g oal t hrough i nternal c apacity bui lding
which requires a longer term horizon. Restatement of the development objective removed
ambiguities t hat w ere r educing t he v alue o f t he agreed o utcome i ndicators s elected t o
monitor the project's results.

Second, the expected outcome of training activities under the project that were intended
to contribute to building internal capacity of the Ministry of Finance and line ministries
was r educed. Implementation w as b eing ha mpered b y l agging r ecruitment of t rainable
managerial s taff f ollowing m erit-based p rinciples, s lower-than a nticipated r estructuring
of lin e min istries, a nd d ifficulties in mo bilizing q ualified s pecialized tr ainers o wing to
security risks in the country.

The project development objective was thus modified to read:

  `To enhance the performance of public sector procurement, financial management, and
 accountability systems which will contribute to a more effective, transparent and accountable
 state'.

As not ed, t he j ustification f or t he r estructuring w as t he ne ed t o a lign t he pr oject
development obj ectives with t he pr ojects a ctivities w hich a imed m ore at pr oducing t he
necessary public financial management outcomes than at human capacity building. Since
the original monitoring indicators were already well aligned with the planned activities,
the only modification required was to omit from the description of the Human Resource
Capacity i ndicator t he c ommitment of s taff t o t ake ove r t he ope ration of f inancial
management systems. Similarly, the follow-on project, the Public Financial Management
Reform P roject ( PFMR), is e qually r ealistic o n th e time frame f or h uman r esource
capacity building in the civil service and targets the reduction of international consultants
and t he i mplementation of t he ne w pa y and grading s ystem i n t he M inistry o f F inance
while a pplying a n opt imal c ombination of contracted fiduciary services w ith i n-house
executive capacity to maintain credible and sound public financial management.


                                                 7
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries of the project included:

    ·   Public institutions. The pr oject s upported t he g overnment's e ffort t o bui ld s olid
        foundations for a m odern, e ffective a nd a ccountable pub lic a dministration, with a
        particular f ocus on bui lding t he capacity of publ ic institutions t o m anage resources for
        better budgetary outcomes and development results on the ground.

    ·   Afghan public and the international community. Successful i mplementation of t he
        project would h elp pr ovide a ssurance t o the A fghan public as w ell as the international
        community as to the effective and accountable utilization of external assistance and thus
        securing the country's continued access to development assistance.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of five components as follows:

Component 1: Strengthening Procurement Capacity within the Government ($9,000,000)

This c omponent would p rovide t echnical a dvisory s upport, e quipment and t raining t o t he
government in undertaking its procurement reform effort. A ssistance would be provided in two
packages.

a. Services of a central procurement facilitation consultant - to support line ministries with the
   direct procurement process for three years, particularly in relation to donor programs.

b. Capacity Building and Legal and Institutional Reform ­ t echnical consultancy services, plus
   equipment and training to build procurement capacity within line ministries so that they could
   progressively be accredited with increased delegated authority for procurement management
   within a coherent procurement structure and an agreed institutional and legal framework.

Component 2: Strengthening Financial Management Capacity ($8,000,000)

The F inancial Management component would build on t he assistance pr ovided t o t he Treasury
under E PAP I a nd I I w ith t he ob jective o f assisting M OF and line ministries to a ttain h igher
levels of efficiency in budget execution and financial reporting. Activities under this component
would include:

a. Financial Management Consultant support to the MOF and to line ministries, to strengthen
   core Treasury f unctions. Activities w ould include: ope rational support and on t he job
   training in accounting and reporting cash management payroll processing, grant management
   and payment pr ocessing. A human resource and training needs assessment in line with the
   Treasury Department's long t erm strategic de velopment pl an would be c onducted. I n
   addition, technical assistance to strengthen the financial management regulatory framework ­
   including drafting needed regulations and policies based on the new Public Expenditure and
   Financial Management Law will be provided.



                                                  8
b. Technical and Professional Training in Basic Financial Management for Treasury and other
   MOF staff. This would be based upon the needs assessment conducted under subcomponent
   A but contracted separately.

c. Conduct, and Initial Implementation, of a Comprehensive Financial Management
   Information Systems (FMIS) Architecture Study to d etermine a framework f or the p hased
   implementation of an integrated f inancial m anagement information s ystem for government
   over the medium to long term.

Component 3: Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity ($4,000,000)
This component would provide technical advisory services, equipment and training to support the
Internal A udit f unction w ithin government. The establishment o f a n effective i nternal a udit
service would help to improve the public internal control environment and the establishment of
sound financial management within the public sector, including more effective execution of the
government budget.

This component w ould a ssist i n e stablishing t he ne cessary f ramework w ithin t he M inistry of
Finance and other key ministries for an effective internal audit service which follows generally
recognized international standards of internal auditing and control standards enabled by modern
technology and software applications. The specific objectives were to:

    ·   Help set up an Audit C ommittee to provide oversight ov er the w ork of the Internal
        Auditing Service;
    ·   Create an organizational structure which will remove the current influence of individual
        ministries over the work of Internal Audit;
    ·   Change the working practices of Internal Audit to carry out more operational reviews and
        evaluations of internal control systems; and,
    ·   Provide training and support to facilitate this transition.

Component 4: Strengthening External Audit Capacity within Government ($4,500,000)
The E xternal A udit component w ould p rovide c onsultant services, equipment a nd t raining t o
support to t he C ontrol a nd Audit O ffice (CAO) in s trengthening t heir c apacity to p rovide
comprehensive auditing services in accordance with International Organization of Supreme Audit
Institutions (INTOSAI) Auditing Standards. S everal additional activities were included to help
strengthen the broader audit and oversight environment within Afghanistan.

    a. Audit Consultant Services t o pr ovide s upport t he CAO of fice i n a udit op erations,
       including on -the-job training. T he c onsultants would also assist in the de velopment of
       the audit regulatory environment including t he completion of a ny ne cessary l egislation
       and regulations. A comprehensive human resources and training needs assessment would
       be conducted to determine the technical and professional training requirements of CAO
       staff.

    b. A Program of Technical and Professional Audit Training for CAO and Internal Audit
       Staff. This would be based on the needs assessment conducted under sub component A
       but contracted s eparately. Training a ctivities would be c onducted jointly with training
       under the Internal Audit component.

    c. Technical Assistance t o s trengthen professional accounting a nd a udit standards a nd
       capacity throughout the country.


                                                 9
    d. Technical A ssistance t o d evelop t he s ystem f or s crutiny a nd response t o a udit r eports
       including responses by involved ministries and scrutiny by a legislative Public Accounts
       Committee.

Component 5: Other Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building ($1,500,000)
EPAP II provided support f or the g overnment's emerging a dministrative r eform pr ogram
implemented t hrough t he Independent A dministrative Reform and C ivil S ervice Commission
(IARCSC). A lthough, a ssistance packages i n this a rea ha ve just be en l aunched, t he n eed for
additional funding i s a lready a nticipated. This may i nclude a ssistance to the G overnment i n
rationalizing m inistries and i mplementing a g overnment-wide pa y a nd g rading r eview. Funds
have be en i ncluded unde r this c omponent to cover this additional a ssistance as w ell as a ny
unforeseen requests for Technical A ssistance or a nalytical work in a reas r elated t o t he overall
objective, including:
·   Further s upport f or t he I ARCSC i n t he m anagement of the P ublic Administration R eform
    program;
·   Technical a ssistance t o s upport t he G overnment to m anage the design a nd delivery of
    technical assistance to government; and
·   Broad based t raining for t he M inistry of F inance a nd line ministries as a result of ongoing
    reforms to the financial management framework within government.

1.6 Revised Components

With the change in the development objectives in February, 2007 no major component redesign
was effected although t he I nstitutional S trengthening C omponent w as e xpanded to include
support f or t he pr eparation of a f ramework f or a f ollow-on pr oject. O n t he ot her ha nd,
right after project effectiveness in 2005, the Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity component
was r edesigned t o c hange t he approach t o training under the I nternal Audit c omponent. This
change a rose f rom f indings a nd r ecommendations on t raining of a uditors in Afghanistan from
reports of experts financed under the EPAP I which were not available during project preparation.
Comprehensive c overage in a c ertification ba sed training pr ogram w as r ecommended a nd
adopted by the project over the initial component approach which provided the framework but not
the outputs i n t erms of staff training in the audit discipline. T he shift aligned the inputs better
with t he outputs e xpressed i n t he pe rformance indicators o n hum an r esource c apacity
development. The c hange i n approach a llowed t he c ontracting of local providers for ba sic
accounting and auditing training which resulted in savings of US$ 2.0 million.

1.7 Other significant changes

Actual costs for three Components varied widely from plan as follows:
The consultant under the Strengthening of F inancial M anagement C omponent ha d t o f ace
demands not foreseen in the original contract. The first need was the cost to continue to employ
30 local advisors whose posts were financed by the EPAP I Project but which were to be covered
by civil servants. When the Treasury Dept. could not recruit the requisite qualified staff, it was
agreed that this cost be added to the contract. The second need was for the consultant to assist
with the implementation of t he recommendations of t he s tudy on internal controls i n t he
Payments Area and the purchase o f a dditional services to s upport the integrated f inancial
management system.
The c ost o f t his increase in a ctivity on s upport t o Treasury w as f unded by s avings unde r t he
Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity component, which was redesigned right after effectiveness,

                                                  10
and s ome savings i n the contracting of the audit o perations advisor u nder t he S trengthening
External Audit Component.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

During pr eparation, t he p roject d esign t ook i nto a ccount lessons l earned f rom pr evious B ank-
assisted projects in the public administration sector in Afghanistan and other countries. Likewise,
the d esign c onsidered the risk factors and a ppropriate m easures w ere a dopted to m itigate all
major risks identified at appraisal.

Lessons Learned from previous Bank-assisted projects.

The mid-term review conducted on EPAP I and EPAP II in early 2004 concluded that the projects
had m ade s ignificant pr ogress in a chieving t heir ob jectives, pa rticularly i n t he c ontext of
Afghanistan's extremely limited capacity and engagement with the international community over
the last twenty years.

The review also concluded that continued operational assistance would be necessary to maintain
standards of f iduciary c ontrol. A t t he s ame t ime, t he G overnment c onsidered i t c rucial t o
progressively t ransition from " buying-in" capacity t o developing it within g overnment. I n
response to this, the Bank and the government had extensive dialogue on a coherent medium term
public expenditure management reform and capacity building strategy that addresses legislative,
regulatory and institutional reforms and development of management control systems and human
resources. T he government has r equested t he Bank assistance i n the implementation of such a
strategy. The project was prepared in this context.

Risk Assessment. The TA had identified the following potential risks and mitigation measures as
deemed a ppropriate a t t he t ime t hey w ere s pelt out. A t p roject c ompletion, m any of t hese
identified risks had materialized.

·        The fragile political and security environment was a major risk factor which posed some
uncertainties as to the government's ability to stay on course during the post election period and
over t he medium term with r egard to the broad legislative, policy and institutional reforms t hat
were n ecessary f or s ustainability o f the p roject's o utcomes. To p artially ad dress t his r isk, t he
Bank had intensified dialogue with the government's cabinet, and with senior management in line
ministries, to c ontinue building up a nd broadening the ow nership of the r eforms a nd c apacity
building programs supported by the project.

·       The inability of implementing agencies to adequately recruit counterpart staff w ould
continue to constitute a risk to the capacity building strategy. P rovision of substantive technical
assistance m ay w eaken t he u rgency f or some agencies t o ag gressively r ecruit and fill k ey
positions. The project would carefully monitor this and sequence packages of training and other
capacity building initiatives with continuing progress in recruiting competent staff.

·       Lack of clarity over functional responsibilities between different parties might i nhibit
progress in a number of areas and create overlap and confusion. This was potentially a problem
between I nternal A udit and E xternal Audit a nd between t he A ccounting a nd T reasury
departments within the MOF. T he Bank planned to organize a series workshops to disseminate


                                                   11
international e xperiences, and d evelop consensus o n w hat w ould b e the m ost effective and
sensible options for Afghanistan.

2.2 Implementation

Restructuring. As no ted, a pr oject restructuring w as c ompleted in F ebruary 2007 t o adjust t he
project development objective to reflect the full original intent of the Government of Afghanistan
(GOA) a nd donors, to both assure a high l evel of integrity in t he management of public s ector
resources, and to build capacity.

Midterm Review. The Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in October 2006. The objective
of t he M TR w as t o review t he ov erall project i mplementation s tatus a nd the advance t oward
development ob jectives. Specifically t he MTR r eported on c ompliance w ith legal covenants,
monitored the p rogress o f implementation t o da te, and assessed the pr ospects for successful
completion.

Factors outside the control of government or implementation agency

The p roject f aced pr oblems due t o t he s ecurity s ituation i n the c ountry, w hich i nhibited
consultants (firms and individuals) from taking an active part in supervision and had also stalled
for some time the implementation of the procurement capacity building and reform component.

Factors subject to the control of government or implementation agency

Positive: The i nterest and c ommitment on t he pa rt of t he g overnment for a modern l egal
framework was a favorable factor in the project implementation.

Negative: (i) The administrative departments of the ministries had not followed through with the
reform and merit based recruitment foreseen under the PRR. Similarly, key civil service positions
in t he T reasury D epartment w ere un filled for a long t ime a nd so it w as ob liged t o c ontinue to
depend on local consultants as counterparts for the Treasury Advisor.

(ii) A major challenge was the extremely low capacity of the Afghanistan Civil Service existing
at t he time, w ith s taff t hat lacked a dequate skills a nd w ere poorly paid. This also necessitated
running the project through three PIUs comprising local staff on c ontract terms, better paid, but
unfamiliar with both the Bank procedures and the reform agenda.

(iii) I nadequate overall pr oject c oordination within g overnment due t o f ragmented
implementation a rrangements spread over three i mplementing a gencies and the a bsence of a
single agency with the skills and mandate for coordination.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. Monitoring and evaluation w as based on a s et o f specific a nd m onitorable
legislative, policy, institutional and human resource development actions (monitoring indicators)
that were critical for achieving the project objectives and were clearly linked to results. Specific
benchmarks were agreed between the government and technical assistance providers early on in
implementation so a s t o m easure s pecific pr ogress i n meeting c apacity bui lding obj ectives.
Baseline da ta, as t o be e xpected in a p ost-conflict country, w ere how ever non-existent. A t t he
time of pr oject restructuring i n F ebruary 2007, t he onl y modification required i n t he output
indicators for human development was to omit from the description the commitment of staff

                                                  12
to t ake over t he ope ration of f inancial m anagement systems s ince t he or iginal t argets on H R
related t o conversion of staff to P RR s tatus w hich was not a ffected by change in PDOs or t he
scaling back in training.

Intensive supervision by the Bank during the first half of the project period was planned to ensure
that a ny implementation i ssues were de alt w ith promptly. A t a minimum, a full s upervision
mission was planned twice a year, comprising appropriate specialists from each of the component
areas. The M OF h ad t he pr imary r esponsibility t o prepare and furnish to the B ank qua rterly
progress report highlighting pr ogress i n unde rtaking t he a ctions r equired to a chieve pr oject
development objectives.

M&E implementation. The R eform Implementation M anagement U nits ( RIMU's) Monitoring
and E valuation U nit ( MEU) ha d l ed the m onitoring a nd e valuation p rocess a nd e stablished a
network of M&E focal point pe rsons i n e ach m ajor ope rating l ine uni t of t he m inistry.
Implementation data w ere collected o n a regular b asis, and Annual P erformance R eports w ere
prepared using a results-based M&E performance framework.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected from Annual Performance Reports was evaluated
and used to inform decision-making on certain activities. For example, these data contributed to
the design of the follow-on project, PFMRP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
Safeguard Compliance. N/A

Fiduciary Compliance. There were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank's fiduciary
policies and procedures during the implementation of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(a) Transition arrangements. PFMR Project which became effective in July 2007, has ensured a
smooth transition for continuing the project's future operation, which mainly consists of technical
assistance from consultants.

(b) Monitoring and evaluation. The R IMU w ould incorporate the c urrent M &E U nit into its
structure for the life of the PFMR Project to assure coherent results-focused project management.
The M&EU now reports to the Deputy Minister of Administration and this arrangement would be
re-instated a t t he e nd of the project. W ith t he M &EU staff, t he RIMU has i ntroduced a new
monitoring methodology, including monitoring the achievement of annual benchmark results, in
addition t o the m ore conventional m onitoring of the e xecution o f a ctivities t hat a re a greed in
annual work programs.

(c) List of performance indicators. Indicators developed under PFMR Project will be monitored
during its implementation. Some of the Indicators are the following:

    ·   Coherence of budget, treasury and revenue estimates with Afghanistan National
        Development Strategy (ANDS) priorities and Mid Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF)
    ·   Timeliness of budget, treasury and revenue preparation and execution
    ·   Level and perception of good governance in PFM operations
    ·   Number of ministries/agencies performing assigned treasury functions

                                                  13
    ·   Number of line ministries conducting stand alone procurement
    ·   Reliance on international technical assistance diminishing

(d) F uture I mpact Evaluation. I t w ill be important t o c onduct an impact e valuation after three
years of project closing i n order to assess the sustainability o f the p roject's achievements. This
evaluation could be done at the end of PFMRP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The o bjective i s c lear, r elevant, a nd i mportant to A fghanistan's e conomic de velopment. I t is
timely and a ppropriate t o t he c urrent ne eds of t he country's public a dministration s ector. T he
project is also consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Afghanistan.

In or der t o strengthen the capability a nd sustainability of the P FM s ystem, M OF and t he C AO
have recognized that it will have to address several organizational and capacity constraints such
as:

·       Incomplete re-organization of MOF. While a ll m ain d epartments w ithin MOF h ave
undergone restructuring under t he Priority Reform and Restructuring ( PRR) pr ogram, t he MOF
would still require r estructuring of its r emaining f unctions to a ssure that all of i ts departments
work as a n integrated w hole. I t i s a lso important t hat s taffing pl ans i n t erms of numbers, job
descriptions, grade levels, and qualifications be finalized.

·       Concentration of Responsibility. There are limits to the expansion of the internal capacity
of the MOF to further e xpand the transaction-based system and r emain responsive, accountable
and efficient. Line ministries and agencies need to be involved in PFM to increase predictability
and t imeliness of their op erations, a lbeit, in parallel w ith t heir c apacity t o m eet a ccountability
standards.

·        Inadequate Human Resources Numbers, Capacity and Management. G overnment
external auditing in Afghanistan, for example, is still dependent on external international advisors
to pe rform f inancial statements audits and t o c onduct any ot her a udits t o a cceptable s tandards.
There is no accounting profession in the country and training in certification related programs is
just be coming a vailable and is g iven onl y i n E nglish w hich as s uch is n ot a ccessible for most
CAO s taff. S everal r emedies, i ncluding of f-site training, a dequate g rading a nd pa y, e ffective
recruiting and m anagement of c areers o f civil s ervants fo r t he lo nger t erm (in cluding p ension
management), an d est ablishing sch emes of ser vice for k ey p rofessional c lasses a re i nterlinked
factors an d r equire specialized m anagement c apacity t hat the MOF an d most other m inistries
lack.

·       Anti-corruption and Maintaining Accountability and Transparency while Reforming. The
control e nvironment on which A fghanistan's P FM f ormal c ontrols r est is undermined b y
corruption in its various forms and manifestations. This is increasingly s een as one of t he most
important threats t o A fghanistan's e ntire s tate-building a nd t o de livering public s ervices. T he
GOA recognizes the critical importance of addressing corruption and the MOF is seeking advice
on how to fight it.



                                                   14
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Satisfactory. The pr oject was successful in a chieving i ts ob jective. The public financial
management f unctions supported unde r t he pr oject performed s atisfactorily i n bot h a ttaining
acceptable standards i n t he conduct o f pub lic f inancial m anagement and i n developing t he
necessary r egulatory frameworks. For example, new budg et l aw a nd financial r egulations,
procurement l aw and regulations, a nd audit law and regulations all have been promulgated and
are under implementation. Outcomes, i n terms of : (i) contracts being pr ocessed in line with t he
new pr ocurement l aws, a nd ( ii) m aintaining a dequate c ontrol a nd reliable reporting of budg et
operations, have k ept up w ith t he s tandards s et und er t he two pr eceding e mergency f inancial
management support operations (EPAP I and EPAP II).
Satisfactory progress had been made in strengthening internal and external audit work practices
and capacity in the Internal Audit Department (IAD) of the MOF and the CAO respectively. In
particular, there is progress i n completing i nternal audits in t he MO F, Ministry of D efense a nd
Independent D irectorate o f L ocal G overnment (IDLG), a nd continued e nhancement t o t he
timeliness a nd quality of the audited Qatia, t ogether with t he beginnings of demonstrated CAO
capacity to conduct performance a udits. S imilarly, both the IAD of t he MOF and t he CAO a re
placing diminishing r eliance on international t echnical assistance for ba sic o r routine audit
matters.

The details of the project's achievements are as follows:

(i) Strengthening Procurement Capacity within the Government
Procurement a ctivities in Afghanistan Reconstruction a nd D evelopment S ervices (ARDS) have
got w ell i nstitutionalized. The c ounterpart national P rocurement L iaison Officers (PLOs)
associated with the international procurement specialists working in ARDS have been sufficiently
trained in procurement by means of classroom t raining sessi ons as w ell as o n the job training.
Functioning in ARDS now is comparable to any international standards. In its endeavor to ensure
that t he a chievements g ained a re n ot only c ontinued i n future bu t a lso g ets further improved,
ARDS has established a Quality Management System and obtained ISO 9001/2000 certification
since November 2006, the first ever ISO certification in Afghanistan.
The constant interaction of ARDS with the line ministries in every step of procurement is helping
the l ine ministries a lso i n getting their p rocurement a ctivities institutionalized though a t a
relatively lower pace than that of ARDS.
Due t o enactment of P ublic Procurement L aw 2008 i n July 2008 and subsequent d iscussions
leading t o i ts a mendments i n January, 2009, the Rules o f Procedure w ere a ligned w ith the
amended l aw and similarly a ll Standard B idding D ocuments ( SBDs) w hether i ssued or under
finalization were also being aligned with the amended law.

(a) Institutional Development. Seven m inistries a re c urrently c ompleting a pplications f or P RR
status. A Joint Advisory Committee has been constituted to finalize the requirements of the line
ministries for obtaining P RR s tatus. D raft procurement or ganization structure and dr aft ToR of
various pos itions ha ve been pr epared. I nitial da ta g athering a nd r eporting t ask ha ve be en
completed for Provincial Institutional Development for four provinces (Herat, Kunduz, Kandahar
and Nangarhar).




                                                  15
(b) Capacity Building. A bout 800 of ficials from 25 m inistries, four p rocuring e ntities (Civil
Service Commission, Municipality, Cartography, President's Office) and three provinces (Herat,
Kunduz a nd B alkh) have c ompleted training courses of d ifferent levels i .e. B asic, I ntermediate
and Advanced, and obtained certificates of attendance. 631 Trainees completed Basic course, 91~
trainees c ompleted I ntermediate c ourse a nd 78 a ttended ot her c ourse. The t rainings ha ve a lso
covered private sector.

(c) Management Information System. MIS t ools necessary to establish website were contracted;
software and hardware items w ere r eceived, a ssembled a nd installed. C onfiguration and s etting
activities w ere c ompleted. The w ebsite de sign a nd r equirements for c ontents have be en
completed. E-reporting and E-monitoring formats are under finalization and development.

(d) Procurement Functions of Line Ministries /Procuring Entities. PPU recruited 24 Procurement
Controllers f or l ine m inistries a nd one C oordinator ( Procurement C ontrollers) f or M inistry of
Finance for one year under the PACB Project. The Procurement Controllers were allocated to the
line m inistries an d t heir reporting an d evaluation formats were d esigned. T he objective i s t o
facilitate procurement function for the line ministries in view of increase in threshold limits in the
Public Procurement Law 2008 and need for strengthening procurement control function through
feedback a nd r eporting m echanism t o M OF. R elevant instructions a bout pl acement of
Procurement Controllers were also issued t o line ministries. Monthly reports from Procurement
Controllers are received and compiled reports are circulated.
(ii) Strengthening Financial Management Capacity
(a) Treasury Capacity Building. Majority of Treasury units a re now f ully s taffed by PRR civil
servants. L ocal c onsultants h owever are still managing so me key u nits and more sophisticated
operations ­ foreign c urrency account r econciliations, dono r liaison, I nformation Systems
development, I nformation Technology S upport a nd o perations a nd pr eparation of m onthly and
annual financial statements - are still largely dependant on local consultants (technical assistance)
with support of international consultants.

Treasury has now filled all but one of the 17 m iddle management positions which have allowed
the FM A dvisor (Bearing Point) to implement a ne w t winning a rrangement t o ensure s kills are
passed on to PRR staff. S imilarly, T reasury ha s initiated a p rogram for i nterns i n F M f or H Q,
Moustoufiats and line ministries with the aim of providing qualified candidates to apply for civil
services positions under the PRR. 49 interns have been hired to date.

(b) AFMIS Roll Out to Line Ministries and Mustofiats. AFMIS ha s be en rolled out t o 12 line
ministries. Because system security continues to be a primary concern for all AFMIS users, each
organization will only be able to access and enter data pertaining to their organization via proper
coding in AFMIS.
To date eighteen provincial Mustofiats have been covered by AFMIS. The provincial Mustofiats
exploit all the current functionality available in AFMIS, include check printing.

In pr eparation o f the r oll out of A FMIS, ba sic training in financial management ha s been
delivered to l ine ministries budget un its' s taff, M ustofiat's staff and Treasury i nterns. The
training pr ogram i ncluded t he i ntroduction t o Treasury ope rations, f inancial pl anning a nd
commitment c ontrol, pa yment/disbursement pr ocedures, introduction t o A FMIS a nd t he new
chart of accounts (CoA). Over 500 staff members were trained and additional training was given
to staff members as the procedures for transaction processing and reporting are now streamlined.



                                                 16
(c) Internship Program. In 2008, T reasury i ntroduced an i ntern program r ecruiting hi gh s chool
graduates for performing basic data entry and calculations tasks and university graduates for more
challenging a ccounting a nd reconciliation tasks. The i nterns s plit their day be tween w ork
assignments w ithin T reasury a nd a ttending f ormal training c ourses. This ne w program should
help address t he insufficient num bers of PRR s taff t hat are a vailable for t raining t o t ake ov er
AFMIS from the contractor. The intern program is a pipeline for recruiting staff into Treasury; at
present in HQ 40 have been recruited; 32 are planned for the line ministries but none in place, and
45 have been recruited against a plan of 101.

(d) Comprehensiveness and Transparency. Significant progress has been made i n transparency
and c omprehensiveness although s ome w eaknesses remain. The g overnment has de veloped a
robust c lassification system w hich t o s ome e xtent facilitates t he t racking of e xpenditures o n
organizational, e conomic and functional a nd p rogram ba sis ( e.g. I-ANDS), but t he Chart of
Accounts ne eds to b e f urther d eveloped and amended s o as t o s upport a nd f acilitate pr ogram
budgeting. The government is committed t o share budgetary i nformation transparently and the
annual budget documentation has been improved in terms of quality and comprehensiveness. The
extent of unreported government operations in terms of extra-budgetary funds appears very low
and all donor funding to the core budget is included in fiscal reports.
(e) Policy Based Budgeting. Progress ha s been m ade i n p lanning and organizing t he annual
budget process through more realism in the time planning as well as political guidance is needed
to e nsure s trategic pr ioritization i n t he resource allocation process. The Cabinet completed t he
inter-sectoral prioritization of the Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS) which is
planned to be fully integrated in the budget process beginning in 2009/10 (SY1388). The budget
approval process of the National Assembly has been greatly improved. The 2008/09 budget was
approved by the parliament before the start of the fiscal year.
The multi-year perspective of the budget process has been improved since 2005 with the linking
of budg et a nd na tional s trategy a nd the regular u pdate of the Medium-Term F iscal Framework
(MTFF) which i s s lowly emerging a s a budgeting f ramework t hrough the estimation of budget
ceilings. Debt sustainability analyses have been undertaken annually by the IMF and the Bank for
the past three years, and the MOF needs to develop its capacity in this area.

(f) Predictability and Control in Budget Execution. Budget pr edictability has be en greatly
improved bot h for r evenues a nd e xpenditures, w hile budg et control ha s room f or f urther
improvement. On the revenue side, the income tax law (November 2005) provides clarity on tax
liabilities a nd pr ocedures. O n the expenditure side, pr edictability of funds availability has
improved t hrough better cash flow forecasts where t here ha s b een improved i nformation
availability on actual cash balances and commitments which are reflected in the allotments.

(g) Accountability, Recording and Reporting. Reconciliation of ba nk a nd a dvance a ccounts i s
regularly conducted a t least on a quarterly ba sis w ithin four weeks after the e nd of t he m onth.
The t reasury de partment has e stablished and implemented a procedure by w hich a dvances and
suspense accounts are cleared at least annually. AFMIS enables the MOF to produce the monthly
reports (which a re p ut on t he M inistry of F inance w ebsite) w ithin a m onth. A c onsolidated
government statement is prepared annually with complete set of information. The statements are
sent to the President's office within six months of the fiscal year end.

(h) External Scrutiny and Audit. The Public Finance and Expenditure Management (PFEM) law
was enacted in July 2005 a nd provides for comprehensive financial regulations including annual
independent a udit and pub lic reporting. C urrently, over 50 pe rcent of expenditures a re a udited


                                                  17
annually a nd r eports a re i ssued w ithin 12 m onths of y ear-end w ith s ignificant i ssues be ing
identified.

(iii) Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity
Formation of Audit Committee: The PFEM Law provides for the Ministry of Finance to establish
an internal audit administration and appoint auditors to audit the financial and accounting affairs
of all State administrations. A high level Audit Committee has been established in the MOF as an
apex body to f ormulate the policy, procedures and to r egulate the i nternal a udit activities
performed by the IA Department. The committee has been effectively working for internal audit
strategy f ormulation, a pproving t he a nnual activities plan, a nd pr oviding necessary instructions
and guidance t o i mplementing agencies ov er the recommendations i n t he a udit r eport p rovided
for the improvement in the financial management system.

Organization Structure of the IAD. A functional organization structure in the IA Department has
been de veloped to cover the audit o f e ntire f inancial a nd the op erational activities o f MOF.
Separate audit di rectorates f or R evenue a nd A sset A udit, Treasury and Budget Audit and
Compliance, I nvestigation and S ystem A udit a re in place t o c arry out the i nternal audit i n an
extensive and systematized way. Arrangements are still being finalized for appointing auditors to
audit the financial and accounting affairs of other State administrations.

Basic Accounting & Auditing Training: Under t his pr ogram, B asic A ccounting & A uditing
Training was conducted for a total of 365 a uditors from the MOF, IA Department, Control and
Audit O ffice, M inistry of Defense, Ministry of Interior, I ndependent D irectorate o f L ocal
Governance (IDLG), local commercial banks and other line ministries. Among the total auditors,
95 a uditors w ere involved f rom t he I A D epartment of the M OF itself. A uditors w ere a ble to
obtain extensive knowledge in both accounting and auditing through classroom training.

On-the-Job Training (OJT) in Internal Auditing: In order to give practical audit exposure to the
auditors who have received classroom training of Basic Accounting and Auditing, the OJT was
organized f or 90 auditors of t he I A D epartment of the M OF. The O JT was c onducted for t he
internal auditors under the close guidance of international experts in this field. The training has
been considered as very much appropriate and practical to follow theoretical knowledge acquired
in classroom t raining and t o a dopt the s tandard approach o f a uditing a s pe r the i nternational
standards and the best practices in p lace. B y obt aining t raining, participants ha ve be come
acquainted w ith the audit procedures generally followed i n o ther c ountries and acceptable t o
donor communities.

Development of Internal Audit Manual and Handbook: To develop appropriate internal audit
work practices, the IA Department with the technical assistance of internal audit experts and on
the job trainers, has produced an Internal Audit Manual and Code of Ethics that conform with the
guidelines issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors, Internal Audit Departmental Procedures,
and Audit Standards and Regulations. A working handbook has been provided to the internal
auditors to guide uniform audit procedures. Orientations on these manuals and
procedures were provided to all IAD staff. Achievements in applying these work practices
include the audit of 48 budgetary units of the GOA in accordance with the manual as part of
the on the job training provided by international audit experts.

Establishment of Fraud Investigation Unit: A Fraud Investigation Unit (FIU) is established and
the basic training in the Fraud Investigation has been provided to 12 Internal Auditors of the IA



                                                 18
Department by an UNDP advisor through the ACT project. Fraud Investigation Manual was also
prepared and approved by the Audit Committee.

Information Technology (IT) Audit. An IT audit unit has been established under the project
financing in the IA Department of the MOF. An IT audit specialist has been hired for preparing
an IT audit manual and providing training on IT audit to the IA staffs. So far, the IT audit manual
has been prepared and the training has been conducted for the Afghanistan Financial
Management Information System (AFMIS) audit. The training for the ASYCUDA1 audit is under
process.

Implementing a Program of Audits. 15 pilot internal a udits ha ve be en c ompleted us ing
procedures i n a ccordance with international standards f or IA, and further a udits are i n the
execution ph ase s till under the g uidance o f the on-the-job trainers recruited under the pr oject.
These a udits a re us ing modern r isk-based a pproaches i ncluded in t he I A manual. The reports
covered i mportant de partments i ncluding t he S tate Owned Enterprise D epartment, t he R evenue
Department, the Kabul M ustofiat, t he C ustoms D epartment, the Afghan N ational I nsurance
Company, and various divisions of the MOF.

The audits us ed w ell-designed a udit t esting pr ograms w hich pr oduced s ignificant
recommendations on improving internal controls. The audits identified deficiencies in following
laid d own p rocedures a s well as si gnificant g aps in r esources and t he financial management
processes, and demonstrated the substantial value of the program of internal audits in providing
opportunities for improving the management of public expenditures. A n Audit Committee is in
place t o e nsure p roper r esponses t o t he a udit recommendations and t he IA D epartment should
report back to the Audit Committee in due course on the extent to which the reported deficiencies
are corrected in the MOF to secure the continuing strong support of the very senior members of
the Audit Committee for the program.

(iv) Strengthening External Audit Capacity within Government
PACBP ha s pr ovided real i mpetus to the institutional s trengthening of CAO. It has supported
CAO to enhance its capacity and develop the organization as a Supreme Audit Institution (SAI)
in carrying out its function as per the INTOSAI Auditing Standards.
Achievement of a s trongly pe rforming C AO w as e nabled institutionally by t he P ACBP A udit
Advisor and audit agent helping technically with CAO staff work. Advice on legislative reform
provided a pathway to an external audit capacity that would enable fully effective audit coverage
of the GOA financial system after the legislation has been enacted and implemented.
The C AO ha d m ade pr ogress i n s hifting f rom a lmost exclusive us e of transactions-oriented
compliance a udits, to m ore financial s tatement a ttest a udits a nd to p erformance a udits. I n
addition; capacity building activities including comprehensive classroom and on-the-job training
had been imparted to raise the quality of audits conducted by the CAO. Progress with respect to
strengthening of the external audit capacity of the CAO is viewed as sa tisfactory, and activities
planned for the duration of the project are such that the capacity building objectives with respect
to this sub-component of the project will be achieved.

Project Audits T he f irm D eloittes of I ndia, pub lic a ccountants, p rovided d irect a ssistance a nd
technical support in the audit of IDA and ARTF operations for the fiscal years 2005/06, 2006/07,

1
    ASYCUDA is a computer software for customs management developed by UNCTAD


                                                  19
2007/08. The audits were done to a high standard and were all accepted by t he World Bank as
fulfillment of the corresponding legal covenant. CAO staff grew in their participation of the work
and the timeliness and assurance to the W orld B ank i mproved ov er the pr oject. S avings a rose
since the services of Deloittes of India were procured for US$ 2.0 million against a budget of US$
3.0 million. Also, the lack of activity on strengthening the accounting profession and support for
the public accounts committee contributed another US$ 1.0 million of under-run.

Institutional and Capacity Development. Efforts of the advisors to assist with implementation of
new audit procedures and to provide training in the new CAO audit functions have been highly
satisfactory. O ver 4200 person da ys of t raining ha ve be en de livered in auditing, computer
literacy and English language; a 3-week training on performance audit was delivered to Deputy
AGs, directors, auditors and some internal auditors. In addition, in January 2009 a workshop on
Procurement Audit was conducted to introduce audit directors, auditors and internal auditors to
the Procurement Law that had recently been passed by the National Assembly. Commencing in
June 2008 a new training approach was designed to provide a batch of 30 auditors with 3 months
training full time in PCs, English and audit.

The strengthening of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) is still to be done and in fact there is no
PAC. There is Budget & Finance Committee in the national Assembly that discusses the audit of
state financial statements but other reports are not being discussed in the national assembly. The
staff in CAO have been appointed through PRR and this process is over now.

Legal Framework: The new A udit Law has not be en l egislated till now a nd efforts a re be ing
made f or i ts legislation in s hort time. T he dr aft l aw doe s not c ontain adequate pr ovisions t o
establish a n independent SAI. T his i s a serious implementation issue t hat r equires high policy
level attention on the part of the GOA on a priority basis.

(v) Other Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building

Under the General Training for Mustofiats (Provincial Officers of the Treasury Dept.) Managers,
145 Mustofiat management staff completed one month residential course which comprised topics
in financial management, human resource management, communications, budgeting, leadership,
and pl anning. The s econd phase o f training started i n N ov 2008 f or 200 Mustofiats mid level
managers. To the end of December 2008, two courses were completed and 42 staff were trained
under the PACB Project.

Additionally, under the project a core group of 43 m id-management level MOF staff traveled to
Malaysia and completed one year training on accounting, management, basic computer skills and
English. ~The staff are now back in assigned positions in MOF.

3.3 Efficiency

(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

N/A

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

                                                  20
Based on the discussion given in Sections 3.1 and 3.2, the overall outcome is rated as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The pr oject resulted in a substantial institutional development i mpact in the a reas o f l egal
framework, a long w ith the e nactment o f public pr ocurement law and public f inancial
management law. For details see Section 3.2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Positive

    ·        In the process of making an effective and transparent procurement system in ARDS,
        a very useful website has been developed with lots of features. All business opportunities
        are placed on w ebsite. This includes projects handled not only by t he ARDS but by the
        line m inistries d irectly also, i f t hey d esire so. B idders can download co mplete b id
        documents, amendments, pre-bid meeting minutes, bid opening minutes etc. directly from
        website. Registration of firms with ARDS is also done on line through this website.

    ·   The local bidders are gradually getting knowledge/experience of requirements of bidding
        documents, pr eparation o f bids etc. a s a r esult, f requent use of v arious f eatures of t he
        ARDS website and also with the interactions with ARDS procurement professionals on
        various occasions such as bid opening sessions, pre-bid meetings etc.

    ·   Treasury interns employed in line ministries support the success of Treasury as through
        their training they have a good understanding of Treasury requirements and procedures.

Negative

        ·   It was intended that with the assistance of the project: (i) the IA Department of the
            MOF would be developed as sole authority to carry out the internal audits of the
            entire government agencies; and (ii) internal audit capacity would be strengthened to
            the expected level of performing the audit as per the international standards and the
            best practices. However, after the presidential order revoking the Article 61 of the
            Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law, the IA Department has now been
            confined to the auditing of financial activities under the MOF only. Consequently,
            the progress achieved in the internal audit work practices from the assistance of the
            project funding has not been able to apply in the audit of entire government agencies
            except the MOF.

        ·   Reduced rollout to line departments for the reformed internal audit function ­ there
            was strong support for the CAO from the Bank but the CAO exerted a continued
            control over auditors in line ministries and prevented the MOF internal auditors
            operating in line departments. This disruption to a highly promising roll-out of

                                                  21
            internal audit was partly caused by the MOF's failure to fully consult the CAO
            during development of the internal audit sections of the new Finance Act, resulting in
            CAO's fear of loss of function and resistance to the new arrangements. At the same
            time, there was substantial delay in legislating the new Audit Act and thereby not
            empowering the CAO properly.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

    ·   Although there ha s been tremendous capacity bui lding of the na tional s taff w orking i n
        ARDS, P rocurement L iaison Officers (PLOs), with their qua lification and b ackground,
        may not be fully c apable t o ha ndle all procurement i ssues independently a t present.
        Guidance of the international consultants will be required for some more years.

    ·     Without the support of this project, the government may not pay the same salary to the
        PLOs w hich they are g etting now . This m ay r esult in many of them l eaving t he
        organization in search of better opportunities. This is due to lack of permanent cadre in
        the organization.

    ·     Most of the line ministries also have not developed full capacity to handle procurement
        independently at present. Although there have been some capacity building in the field of
        procurement t here, they are still dependent on A RDS f or majority of t heir pr ocurement
        activities.

    ·   Not having enough information technology (IT) capacity in order for the government to
        operate the s ystem, and not ha ving e nough t rained s taff in a ccounting a nd t reasury i n
        order to continue operating the system after the contractor leaves the project are two risk
        factors that need to be dealt with by the GOA.

    ·   National Assembly does n ot ha ve P ublic A ccounts Committee nor is it proactive on
        discussing a udit issues. This limits the e ffectiveness of t he a udit function di rectly a nd
        makes t he CAO d irectionless t o so me extent a s they d o n ot r eceive any f eedback or
        guidance/instructions from the National Assembly.

    ·   Independence for the CAO is required. I t will make it more effective and will establish
        its well d efined ro le in the a ccountability fra mework. It w ill a lso eliminate t he p resent
        friction b etween role of internal audit a nd external audit. The p roposed d raft a udit law
        supported by the Bank s eeks to a chieve t he ob jective of i ndependence i n auditing
        function, whereas the current audit law is inadequate.
    ·   The support in training program, study tour and procurement of goods/services to provide
        proper infrastructure m ust continue. B ut t he f ocus s hould s hift t o m ore s pecialized
        training i n m atters of a uditing a nd a ccounting, a nd t raining i n E nglish a nd I T m ust
        continue. T he staffs in CAO should ha ve t raining in current a ccounting s ystem in
        Afghanistan based on AFMIS.


                                                  22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory.

The B ank's pe rformance in t he identification, p reparation, a nd appraisal of the pr oject w as
satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project
design an d al l major r elevant asp ects, such as technical, financial, eco nomic, an d institutional,
including procurement and financial management.

During the appraisal, the Bank quickly assessed the changes in project's risks and benefits from
the data collected during EPAP-I and II preparation. Project preparation was carried out with an
adequate number of specialists who provided the technical skill mix necessary to address sector
concerns a nd a good project de sign. The B ank provided a dequate r esources i n terms of s taff
weeks a nd dollar amount to ensure quality pr eparation and a ppraisal w ork. The p roject was
consistent w ith the TSS and g overnment pr iorities in t he s ector at the time. T he B ank ha d a
consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory.

A Quality of Supervision A ssessment w as carried out i n A ugust 2006, by a QAG pa nel of
reviewers for t he p roject. The P anel ra ted the o verall quality o f s upervision for t his p roject a s
Moderately Satisfactory. Focus on D evelopment Effectiveness, Adequacy of Supervision Inputs
and Processes, and the Candor and Quality of ISR were also all rated by the Panel as Moderately
Satisfactory. S upervision of F iduciary/Safeguard A spects was a ssessed b y t he P anel to be
Satisfactory.

QAG noted that:
    "ISRs factually report problems and progress in addressing them, but communications both
    by the TTL to Washington and to the client could have better identified and addressed the
    underlying issues (e.g., of sustainability).

      Relationship with the borrower was good. Unusually f or a post conflict country, bilateral
      donors do not seem to have cooperated well with the Bank on the PFM reform agenda, but
      rather p ursued t heir ow n pr ograms i n i solation (e.g., T TL m entioned d ifficulties o f
      coordinating with the Bank and DFID on budgetary procedures at the MOF).

      In commenting on the panel's initial comments the TTL provided additional information on
      the d irect involvement of H Q managers i n addressing t he d elay i n the p assing t he
      procurement law, issues related to the Treasury Civil Service and delays with the Internal
      Audit C omponent. H owever, the Panel feels that big i ssues i mpacting on implementation
      and sustainability were still left out and not adequately considered, or discussed in the ISR,
      including: c ivil s ervice pay/grading i ncentives, i mpact of c ulture, and adequacy of t he
      supervision budget in a difficult environment.


                                                   23
      A larger supervision budget could have helped the TTL obtain more specialist inputs from
      HQ and t he R egion. There w ere delays in de veloping t he M&E f ramework, due t o weak
      GOA capacity and the non-existence of a pre-existing system. Furthermore, the emergency
      nature of the project meant that the full set of outcome and key performance indicators was
      not developed at the outset, and subsequently do not appear to have played a large role in
      supervision."

The ICR team concurs with the above findings of QAG.

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The task team
prepared aide-memoires regularly and alerted the government and the implementing agencies to
problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with
Bank procedures. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance
of the project both i n t erms of achievement of development o bjectives a nd p roject
implementation. The task team also monitored fiduciary compliances.

Bank's pr ocurement and financial management staff worked with the staff of the i mplementing
agencies t o explain t he rules a nd procedures to be applied during project implementation, w ith
regard to p rocurement of goods a nd w orks, a nd s election o f c onsultants, a ccounts and a udits,
based on the Grant Agreement. The task team carried out a Mid-Term Review in October 2006,
and a ssessed progress to date on all project components, t he implementation i ssues a nd the
actions to be taken to ensure the successful completion of the project.

Having t he T TL on the g round in K abul w as strongly pos itive, given w eak implementation
capacity a nd t hus the need f or Bank assistance in drawing up t he TOR f or the legal, PFM, and
procurement f rameworks, specifying capacity building a ctivities, and nu rsing t he government
through t he contracting process. T here was considerable input f rom technical staff. The project
also r eceived support i n a ddressing project i ssues f rom the Country M anagement U nit (CMU),
the Quality Director, Regional Procurement Manager, and the Sector Manager.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above, overall
Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The B orrower ha d s ubstantial i nvolvement i n de fining the pr oject's scope a nd i dentifying t he
agencies and ministries where c onsultants would be located t o best advantage. T here were also
strong champions in senior levels of government. Commitment on the part of the MOF was high.
The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, and
cooperated fully with the task team.

The government consistently demonstrated and maintained full commitment to the project and its
objectives throughout t he i mplementation. The government s uccessfully e xecuted t he project.
Examples of active implementation interventions are: (i) monitoring the operations of the agents
and advisors; ( ii) c oordinating knowledge t ransfer t o local c ounterparts whenever possible; a nd

                                                 24
(iii) m aking pr oject course c orrections w here warranted. The g overnment pr epared periodic
monitoring r eports, communicated i ssues f reely a nd ope nly. G iven t he country c ontext in
Afghanistan and the difficulties t o f ind qua lified staff, the government made e very e ffort t o
comply with Bank covenants.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Project Management Committee (PMC). The performance of PMC (under MOF), which was
established t o m onitor progress under v arious c omponents a nd ensure coordination, w as
satisfactory.

Financial Management. Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception
until closure were maintained at the MOF, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU). Record of project's
disbursements w as a lso m aintained a t t he individual i mplementing e ntity's o ffices. R ecords
under P ACBP, like ot her e mergency projects in A fghanistan, w ere maintained manually a t the
SDU f rom inception until March 2005 w hen the S DU s tarted using the AFMIS f or all pr ojects
and l ine ministries' f inancial transactions, w hich w as f inanced unde r t he pr oject. S upporting
documents were maintained satisfactorily for all payments.

Funds flow to all implementing agencies was controlled centrally by the MOF (SDU). This had
been m anaged appropriately s ince t he project b egan. A nnual a udited financial s tatements w ere
submitted regularly, though later than the mandated submission deadline. The audit opinion of the
Control a nd A udit Office of A fghanistan w as unqualified for S Y 1384, qu alified w ith a n
exception for SY1385. The SY1386 audit report became due on Sep 22, 2008; but was submitted
only on June 30, 2009. The audit opinion was unqualified.

Given t hat t here w ere n o f inancial m anagement sy stems i n p lace w hen the project b ecame
effective, one could conclude that FM capacity has been built steadily over the life of the project.
A financial management review was done in June 2009, which included transaction review of the
project's expenditures up to the closing date June 30, 2009.

Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of all w orks, goods a nd t echnical services under the
project followed t he Procurement G uidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and the IDA
Credits". Overall, after initial delays, procurement activities proceeded both at a satisfactory pace
and at acceptable quality levels.

Reporting Arrangements. Financial reporting was poor initially: monthly and quarterly financial
reports ­ i ncluding t he mandatory financial monitoring r eports to be s ubmitted quarterly t o t he
Bank ­ were not prepared regularly and also di d not contain all r equired i nformation. However
financial r eporting improved c onsiderably ov er t ime. T he F MRs w ere pr epared a nd submitted
regularly in the last two years.

Monitoring and evaluation of project progress and results were satisfactory.

MOF. Three different departments in the Ministry of Finance implemented three components of
the project and their performance was satisfactory.

Treasury carried out Strengthening Financial Management which included:




                                                 25
    i)   direct operations support for the day to day operation of the accounting and payments for
             then entire Government budget and the reporting and control of all World Bank and
             ARTF projects. Treasury showed great dedication, transparency and good judgment
             as it absorbed ever increasing resources under the budget in the project period (from
             US$ 965 in 2004/5 t o U S$ 1,978 i n 2007 /8). Treasury obtained good pe rformance
             from the FM consultant and produced good FM support to the entire government.
    ii) the technical and professional training comprised a needs assessment which was carried
             out although training itself was limited.
    iii) the F MIS S ystem S tudy was c arried out on-time a nd within budg et and p rovided k ey
             guidance to the entire government on systems development for financial management
             and contributed to the design of the PFMR project.

The Internal Audit Department carried out the Strengthening I nternal A udit C apacity a nd
under t his c omponent t he MOF ne gotiated w ith the Bank a r edesign of t he component w hose
inputs were major international technical assistance; MOF proposed and carried out a component
with l ocal t raining i nputs which trained nearly 400 staff f rom across the g overnment i n ba sic
accounting and auditing. The IA unit also restructured its own unit and carried out a merit based
recruitment of 100 staff.

The last c omponent , ` Other I nstitutional S trengthening a nd C apacity Building', included t he
continued s upport t o m inistries w hich c ompleted the P riority R eform a nd Restructuring a nd
another set of activities on capacity building which comprised a program for overseas training of
60 M OF m id-level s taff i n a one y ear bus iness c ourse a nd a one m onth r esidence c ourse f or
moustoufiat staff.

ARDS. The performance of ARDS, which was responsible for the Procurement Component, was
satisfactory. The level of staffing was adequate after some difficulties in the early stages of the
project. The staff skills mix improved throughout the life of the project. As staff became more
experienced, p rocurement of international c onsultants w as performed i n a s atisfactory m anner.
Additional t raining and t echnical support w ere provided to s trengthen t he p rocurement team.
Time ex tensions w ere requested on a n e xceptional b asis t o e nsure c ontinuity o f essential
government a dministrative s ervices while c ompetitive pr ocurements w ere be ing pr ocessed.
ARDS surmounted difficulties of mobilizing international consultants under the firm which was
awarded the contract in the face of terrorist attacks targeting Indian nationals in 2006. Moreover,
performance of public procurement was exceptionally transparent over the project period despite
a general rise in the perception of corruption in government and ARDS provide critical support to
any non-security a reas of Government dur ing t he t ransition un der the ne w public p rocurement
law.

CAO. The CAO, was responsible for the E xternal A udit Component, and i ts p erformance w as
satisfactory. T he e ntire e xternal ov ersight w ithin the government rested on t he C AO w hich
carried out t he pr ocurement, mobilization and s upervision of the a udit a dvisor firm in a t imely
and e ffective m anner. M oreover, C AO pr ovided t he c ritical s upport t o t he f irm, pe rformed t o
standard und er the firms instructions for t he audit of dono r projects and additionally a dvanced
with training on their staff albeit on an ad hoc basis.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

In light of the performance of the government and implementing agencies as discussed above, the
overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

                                                  26
6. Lessons Learned

Capacity Building

   ·   Knowledge of bidding documents. Lack of proper knowledge of bidding documents among
       the d omestic b idders r estricted th eir a bility to s ubmit t he b ids in p roper f ormat a nd w ith
       requisite information/documents. In light of this shortcoming, it is necessary to improve their
       knowledge of bidding documents.

   ·   Adequate command of English language is important among the staff in the line ministries.
       Currently, due t o lack of knowledge of English, t he a bility o f t he s taff t o understand the
       procurement d ocuments i s limited. T his cr eates d ifficulty i n cl earance o f d ocuments at
       various stages and affects both quality and timely output of line ministries.

   ·   Continuation of OJT to follow the Manuals and Handbook. Lack of practical exposures
       as needed to use manual and handbooks in auditing have resulted the internal audit staffs
       still facing the practical problems in the exact conversion of such standards into practice.
       Considering these realities, further extensive programs in the OJT is desirable to impart
       the practical knowledge of performing highest standard of auditing in both revenue and
       expenditures s ide o f the government f inancial system unde r c lose guidance of t he
       international experts.

   ·   Civil Service capacity development r equires s trong leadership. Motivation to build
       capacity becomes l imited when c onsultants are p erforming f unctions i n t he absence of
       civil servants. Consulting firms offer limited career path to local staff, which exacerbates
       this problem.

Sustainability

   ·   Sustainability and Consolidation of Achievement. Sustainability a nd c onsolidation of
       achievement in the project is very important. A strategy for retaining the local talent of
       trainers, MIS personnel and Procurement Capacity Building Officers developed under the
       project has to be formulated so that the capacity building and institutional strengthening
       process c ontinues und er aegis of P PU, w ithout losing t alent on w hich s ubstantial
       investments have been made by the project.

       Likewise, in order to sustain the achievement in the internal audit work practices in the
       long run, some focal points in the various areas of internal auditing have to be developed
       within pe riod of s ervices of i nternational audit e xperts. These focal p oints s hould be
       utilized in providing necessary guidance to other junior and newly recruited auditors for
       sustaining the achievements.

Staffing

   ·   Permanent cadre of personnel in the line ministries i s es sential, as l ack of co ntinuity o f
       personnel adversely affects retention of knowledge.

   ·   Staff retention. Measures should be taken f or retaining st aff, especially t hose who have
       been trained. Currently staff retention is a problem as many of those who have received

                                                   27
        training are highly s ought a fter outside the government, and leave when t hey get better
        career opportunities.

Implementation

   ·    Pace of Implementation. It is necessary to have patience when dealing with a project such
        as PACBP in the current situation in Afghanistan. The project must move at a pace that
        the g overnment can a bsorb the m any ne w concepts a nd c hanges i nvolved under the
        project. In addition, the implementation of such as project needs to have close oversight,
        and s ufficient r esources. For e xample, s upervision budgets m ust be sufficient f or the
        TTL to bring in expertise from Washington or field offices, as required.

   ·    Consultation with stakeholders. Any decision on legal framework should be taken after
        consultation w ith all m ajor s takeholders as the Procurement L aw, 20 08 w as enacted i n
        July 2008 without consulting major donor and that resulted in to delays and amendments
        to the Law.

Audit

   ·    Performance of the Fraud Investigation Unit. This Unit cannot be made functional until
        some pow ers are given t hrough drafting of regulations for the unit. In or der to achieve
        good governance, not only the development of the manual and its orientation are enough,
        but also a c lear cut mandate for the investigation by t he unit, a f ull s et of professional
        staff along with the availability of necessary equipment, proper coordination between the
        MOF departments and the cooperation from the higher authority are essential.

   ·    Legal Framework. Audit a nd f inancial management powers r ely on strong integrated
        legislative b ases t o w ork well. The P ACBP i ncluded p lans for better l egislation b ut di d
        not c ontrol the legal d rafting de velopment pr ocesses. L egislation d evelopments were
        assisted by consultative processes that included all relevant players. R elated legislation
        such as finance and audit could best be pushed through together if possible. To overcome
        the institutional r ivalries a nd r esistances, development pa rtner mediation a nd support
        should be heavily e mphasized a nd institutional rigidities de alt w ith as best as possible
        within the practicalities of the other factors at play.

   ·    Delays i n implementing ne cessary l aws a nd r elationships h ave i nhibited p rogress. The
        new a udit l aw t hat w ill e stablish the CAO as an i ndependent e xternal auditor must be
        enacted to support the efforts for capacity de velopment of e xternal a udit. A n
        active Public Accounts Committee is needed and the National Assembly should become
        more involved in di scussing a udit i ssues and m aking t he P AC ope rational. T hese
        developments are e ssential f or t he e xternal a udit a nd r eview functions of the CAO t o
        reach those of comparable SAIs. Regional cooperation in capacity development including
        with t he SAI of India is b ecoming s ustainable a nd will support implementation of t he
        new laws and review processes once they are enabled.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies



                                                  28
The Borrower's r eport b rought up i n t he l essons l earned t he ne ed f or a benchmarking
mechanism t o f ollow and e ncourage t he t ransfer of know ledge a nd s kills f rom
international a dvisors t o l ocal s taff. T he B ank agrees w ith t his ne ed a nd t he P FMR
project committed to reduce international advisors over the life of the project. Related to
this, the Borrower also made the point there was still a need for te chnical assistance in
PFM a nd t he c ivil s ervice could not r ecruit s taff w ith t he r equisite s kills t o a bsorb t he
capacity bui lding e fforts. T his s ituation w as s imilarly a ddressed i n t he P FMR w here
bonus payments are being introduced for civil service who perform to a high standard and
absorb the duties of advisors.

(b) Co-financiers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                                 29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal          Actual /Latest   Percentage of
              Components            Estimate             Estimate        Appraisal
                                  (US$ million)        (US$ million)
         Strengthening                9.00                 8.45
         Procurement
         Capacity
         Strengthening                8.00 13.62
         Financial
         Management
         Capacity
         Strengthening                4.00 1.87
         Internal Audit
         Capacity
         Strengthening                4.50 2.48
         External Audit
         Capacity and the
         General Audit
         Environment
         Other Institutional          1.50 0.98
         strengthening and
         training
            Total Baseline Cost      27.00 27.40
         Physical Contingencies
         Price Contingencies
            Total Project Costs      27.00 27.40
         Project Preparation
         Facility (PPF)
         Front-end fee (IBRD
         only)
                Total Financing      27.00 27.40
                      Required




                                                  30
(a) Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)


                                             Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                        Type of                                                     Percentage of
 Source of Funds                             Estimate            Estimate
                       Financing                                                     Appraisal
                                           (US$ million)       (US$ million)
[Government]
[IBRD/THE                                  27.00               27.40
BANK]
[Donor A]          [WB-administered
                   TF]
[Donor B]          [Parallel financing]




Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Strengthening Procurement Capacity
   ·   Procurement Law was enacted.
   ·   Rules of Procedures were developed, approved within the Ministry on April, 2007.
   ·   Transaction of B usiness R ules for S pecial Procurement Commission was approved a nd
       adopted in MoF on March, 2007.
   ·   SBD f or G oods a nd all its 12 s tandard f orms w ere t ranslated a nd of ficially i ssued;
       Glossary f or A fghan P ublic P rocurement w as p repared in t hree di fferent versions
       (English to Dari, Dari to English and only Dari) and officially issued.
   ·   21 guidelines/ c irculars issued f or pr eparation of procurement pl an, pr ocedure for ope n
       tendering etc. The new Procurement Law, 2008 enacted in July 2008 (and its subsequent
       amendment made in January 2009) needed alignment of all the drafted SBDs which are
       getting finalized.
   ·   PPU e stablished a nd op erating unde r a dvisors since A ugust, 2007 . I nstitutional
       Development report for the PPU is under finalization.
   ·   A total of 640 staff from 25 ministries, private s ectors a nd o thers like C ivil Service
       Commission, M unicipality, C artography, & s taff from 3 pr ovinces including Herat,
       Kunduz a nd B alkh t ook pa rt in B asic, I ntermediate a nd A dvanced t raining be ing
       conducted by CKP/PPU and obtained certificates of attendance.
   ·   A Joint A dvisory Committee consisting of P PU, I ARCSC and l ine ministries
       representatives are finalizing the organizational structure and ToRs of the positions. The
       Institutional Development report for 7 ministries is at the advanced stage of finalization.
   ·   100%, all cases by ARDS are handled through competitive bidding procedure as required
       by Procurement Law.
   ·   Monitoring by PPU to commence after MIS implementation. Website design completed
       and requisite hardware and software are in place. E-reporting and E-monitoring formats
       are under final stage of development.
   ·   Publication of opportunity i s done 100% on website and also in newspapers by ARDS.

                                               31
       Outcome of publ ic contracts i s about 95%. Website and M IS being de veloped for PPU
       will p rovide f or r egular publ ication o f bi dding oppor tunities a nd de tails of a warded
       contracts by Procuring entities on the website.
Component II. Strengthening Financial Management Capacity
   ·   The Financial regulations have been completed and promulgated
   ·   AFMIS Systems Study was completed in June 2006. Immediate software enhancements
       recommended by t he study w ere i mplemented by t he end of A ug 2006. The study
       implementation of t he r ollout pl an r esulted in e xtending A FMIS t o 12 pr ovincial
       Mustofiats and 12 line ministries by the end of Dec 2008.
   ·   An Accounting Manual prepared by the FM Consultant was delivered to the Treasury in
       Dec 2006.
   ·   The draft A FMIS Countrywide Time bound R ollout P lan w as approved i n S eptember
       2006.
   ·   AFMIS ha s been rolled ou t t o t welve line m inistries at t he level of the P hase 1-Temp
       Save. Twelve pr ovincial Mustofiats ha ve a lso been covered by A FMIS. T he pr ovincial
       Mustofiats exploit a ll the c urrent functionality a vailable in A FMIS, i nclude cheque
       printing.
   ·   Filling of PRR vacancies have been concluded in 15 provinces with a plan to initiate the
       process in 7 M ustofiats in the first half of 1388. All Financial Controller positions have
       undergone PRR.
   ·   40 trainees have been recruited and are undergoing On t he Job training in t he Treasury
       Department.
   ·   The C ash Management C ommittee, e stablished in FY 2007/ 08, h as m et regularly on
       monthly ba sis for r esolving c ash m anagement issues a nd f or s haring i nformation.
       Monthly c ash position a nd forecasts are be ing pr epared a nd t abled a t t he C ommittee.
       PRR employees of the Cash Management Unit have been assigned responsibility for sub-
       tasks required for preparing cash projections.
   ·   The Treasury m anages f und requirements f or bu dget execution in provinces by
       transferring funds on monthly basis using allotments and cash projections as basis.
   ·   Software for generating pa yrolls h as be en e stablished in 42 accounting of fices a t t he
       centre. Pilot implementation of the pa yroll system w ill be undertaken in 2 p rovincial
       Mustofiats during first quarter of FY 2009/10.
   ·   Coverage of government employees under the Verified Payroll Plan exceeds 113,000 as
       at the end of December 2008.
   ·   Monthly reconciliations of budget execution has been established, both for the operating
       and development budgets.
   ·   Audited Q atia statements for F Y 20 06/07 and 2007 /08 ha ve b een s ubmitted annually
       within six months from the end of each fiscal year.
   ·   Procedures are in place for monthly reconciliation of TSA accounts and Special Accounts
       under the Development Budget, within 25-30 days from the end of each month.
   ·   Monthly reports are posted on the dedicated treasury website within 28 days from end of
       each month.
   ·   All transactions of the period posted within the month of expenditure.
   ·   Audited Core Budget Financial Statements were submitted to Parliament on time for FY
       2006/07 and 2007/08.
Component III. Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity
   ·   Internal Audit has been re-organized first under PRR and then under Pay and Grading. As
       per the approved PFEM Law, the new structure has 127 posts and most staffed under the

                                                32
       the Priority Reform and Restructing. Pay and Grading i mplementation will also start in
       FY 2009/10.
   ·   A total of 365 government staff were trained in basic accounting and audit, of whom 92
       belonged to MoF IA Dept and 32 to other MoF Departments and the rest 241 related to
       the C AO, Ministry of D efense, M inistry of I nterior, other line m inistries, Independent
       Offices of the Government and officials of the local commercial banks . Out of the 365
       staff, 158 of them were trained in FY 1385/FY 1386 and 207 of them were trained in FY
       2008/09.
   ·   The I nternal A udit D epartment ( IAD) dr afted a new IA M anual ba sed on IIA
       standards and this was a pproved by t he A udit C ommittee o n 16 March 2008. To e nd
       of 1387, 39 provincial and 60 central government budgetary units were audited under the
       guidance      of international c onsultants w orking a s on -the-job                trainers,
       and recommendations were s ent t o m ost uni ts. The I AD e xceeded its a nnual target by
       48% a s 67 audits were planned a nd 99 c onducted. However, the IAD c ould not
       conduct other pl anned a udits of non- MoF budg etary uni ts due to a s uspension of t heir
       power provided by article 61 of the PFEM law.
Component IV. Strengthening External Audit Capacity and the General Audit Environment
   ·   PFEM Law Article 59 includes provision for independent audit certification of the annual
       accounts. A dr aft A udit L aw c overing t he ope ration of t he C ontrol a nd Audit O ffice
       provides f or the CAO t o operate in accordance w ith international standards i s with the
       MoJ, bu t a revised text o f t he draft is a lso being e xamined by t he C AO t o a djust
       references to timing of audits and relation to internal audit.
   ·   Draft law based on international standards that are suitable to the CAO is with the MoJ.
       CAO i s also w orking t o make some amendments w hich have been suggested by t he
       World Bank after Midterm Review.
   ·   The audit manual for the CAO has been completed by Deloittes of India and a workshop
       for staff to launch was held early 2008.
   ·   All audit posts in the CAO have gone through the PRR process.
   ·   English and IT teachers have been engaged to take over from the teachers provided under
       the Deloitte contract. IT teacher commenced in October 2007 and English teacher in Jan
       2008. CAO now has the first of 4 groups of 30 students started in 3 month full time study
       in English, IT and audit methods (120 over 12 m onths). SAI of India contracted to send
       trainers later in 2008 for class room and f or on t he job training t o satisfy t he 1387 HR
       training plan requirements.
   ·   . Unfortunately, due to some procedural problem it could not materialize. CAO may have
       such a rrangements i n 1388. T he qu arterly t raining pr ogram is s till g oing on and w ill
       continue t ill 2nd qua rter of 138 8. A udits of t he ARTF ( RC) a nd 31 d evelopment
       grant/credit audits in FY 2007/08 were conducted using international standards; these are
       over due and behind schedule.
   ·   Audit o f the s tate b udget s tatement ( Qatia) w as d one f or F Y 200 5/06 on time a nd
       presented t o Parliament. The audit review w as n ot done t o international a uditing
       standards and no concrete assurance by way of an audit opinion certificate was provided.
       The a udit of t he F Y 200 6/07 statement w as o n time and f or the first time included a n
       audit op inion certificate. This was a po sitive o pinion for b oth t he D evelopment a nd
       Ordinary B udget Q atias. Audit of F Y 2007/ 08 state budget statement was also c arried
       out in time and there was an improvement in the quality of the report though there is still
       a gap to meet international auditing standards.
   ·   The FY 2007/08 state budget statement audit has been responded to in full by MoF. MoF


                                               33
       agreed with all the observations made by CAO.
   ·   Audit report on FY 2005/06, 2006/07 and 2007/08 state budget sent to Parliament. PAC
       has been formed but is not operative. The Auditor General has met with chair and offered
       to b rief the C ommittee on 1385 management letter issues when i t i s functional.
       Nonetheless, B udget a nd Finance C ommittee had d iscussions w ith MoF and CAO on
       1386 audit report.
Component V. Other Institutional strengthening and training
   ·   A core g roup o f 43 y oung, mid ­ management l evel MOF staff completed one y ear
       training on Accounting, Management, Computer and English through Overseas Training
       Project in Malaysia. ~
   ·   Under the G eneral Training f or M ustofiats M anagers ( GTMM), 145 Mustofiats'
       managers from all Mustofiats c ompleted one m onth r esidential course in F inancial
       Management, H RM, C ommunications, B udgeting, Q uality C ontrol, Q uality A ssurance,
       Leadership, and Planning.
   ·   The second phase of GTMM started in Nov 2008 for 200 Mustofiats mid level managers.
       Till end Dec 2008, 2 courses were completed and 42 staff were trained under PACB. The
       course is ongoing and will be completed in 2009 under PFMR.




                                             34
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                          Responsibility/
             Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
                                                                        Public Administration
Anne Tully                Task Manager                          SASPR
                                                                        Reform
                                                                        Financial
Douglas I. Graham         Consultant                            OPCFM
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Public Expenditure
Stephane Guimbert         Senior Economist                      EASPR
                                                                        Management
Shawkat M.Q. Hasan        Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC   Public Procurement

Supervision/ICR
                                                                        Public Expenditure
Paul Sisk                 Task Manager                          SARFM
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Project Financial
Manoj Agrawal             Consultant                            SARFM
                                                                        Management
Wazhma Azamyar            Team Assistant                        SACAF   Logistics Support
                                                                        Public Administrative
Robert W. Crown           Consultant                            EASPR
                                                                        Reform
Deepal Fernando           Senior Procurement Specialist         SARPS   Bank Procurement
                                                                        Public Expenditure
Stephane Guimbert         Senior Economist                      EASPR
                                                                        Management
Shawkat M.Q. Hasan        Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC   Public Procurement
                                                                        Systems
Ali Hashim                Consultant                            SASDA
                                                                        Development
Michael John Jacobs       Consultant                            SARFM   Public Auditing
                                                                        Project Financial
Kenneth O. Okpara         Sr. Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Public Accounting
Ronald Points             Consultant                            EASPR   and Treasury
                                                                        Operations
                                                                        Project Financial
Donna Thompson            Sr. Financial Management Specialist   CTRLP
                                                                        Management
Peter-Armin Trepte        Consultant                            OPCPR   Public Procurement

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05 15                                                                 135.22
  FY06 1                                                                    7.55
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00

                                             35
                  Total:        16 142.77
Supervision/ICR
  FY05 6                                    17.91
  FY06 17                                   66.84
  FY07 16                                   69.34
  FY08 8                                    69.61
  FY09 6                                     0.00
                  Total:        53 223.70




                           36
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Written comments on the ICR were requested and received as follows.

Comments received from the International Monetary Fund

The W B P ACB project has successfully allowed donor s t o i ncrease their c onfidence in
channeling resources t hrough t he budget for budg et s upport and development p rojects. The
project has helped transform the Treasury from a basic and technologically weak department to
being able to manage a nd consolidate the transaction pr ocessing and payments functions of the
government using t he A fghanistan Financial Management Information S ystem. The system ha s
been s uccessfully expanded t o most pr ovinces a nd a ll line ministries. T he W B has pl ayed a
critical role in these developments providing resources and expertise

The WB support has facilitated the build-up of expertise at the Treasury in transaction processing
and basic accounting. However, building up specialist positions with higher skill requirements in
the area o f accounting and f inancial m anagement (cash projections, de bt m anagement, I T) w ill
require further efforts. Higher demands on the Treasury to expand the delivery of services and its
functionality ha s r equired t he involvement of do nor f inanced consultants, w ithout m uch
involvement of civil servants. In this connection, continued support will be needed for some years
to ensure continuity in the operations of financial management systems.

Comments received from USAID Kabul Office

Based on t he l imited M oF a ssessment c onducted by U SAID i n e arly 2004 (prior t o t he
implementation of the Public Administration Capacity Building Project (PACBP), MoF's systems
were found to be adequate for purposes of managing USAID assistance. The most recent MoF
assessment performed by USAID in July 2009 disclosed a marked improvement in the financial
management c apability of MoF in areas of budgeting, accounting a nd r eporting. I nternal audit
needs further strengthening a nd MoF's r ole in t he i nternal audit o f o ther ministries n eed
clarification.

No assessments ha ve be en done by U SAID on t he C AO unt il July 2009. O ur assessment
disclosed that CAO needs further technical assistance in order to effectively carry out its mandate
and fully comply with the audit requirements for USAID funds directly provided to the Afghan
government. The lack of technical capability of civil servants and the inadequacy of equipment
and facilities that would enable them to perform their jobs more effectively seem to be persistent
weaknesses. I n the C AO, f or e xample, t he a uditors lack I T knowledge a nd a c omplete
understanding of A FMIS t o be able to conduct a thorough a udit of the system. Their English
writing skills need to be improved so that they can prepare audit reports on their own. They do
not have adequate working space and computers.

We believe that for the most part, the objectives of the PACBP were attained, as evidenced by the
successful de velopment of AFMIS a nd i ts roll-out to various ministries, a nd the passage of the
Procurement Law and the PFEM law. However, as mentioned above, the CAO's capability needs
to be further strengthened.




                                                37
Comments received from UK DFID

Overall, the report was honest about both the successes and shortcomings of the project.

Legal framework The project delivered a marked improvement in the legal framework for PFM
although t he A udit A ct is y et t o be e nacted a nd there were i nappropriate c hanges t o the
Procurement Law in 2008.

AFMIS AFMIS roll-out is universally recognised as a success story.

Cash F low P lanning a nd Monitoring Good progress w as ac hieved s een; a lso t here is r ecent
evidence of better collaboration between the budget department and treasury department on cash
forecasting and management.

External Audit Some progress has been made here but more needs to be done to strengthen CAO
independence a nd the q uality a nd r elevance of the work i t c arries out. M oreover, it r emains
dependent on technical assistance to fulfill its remit.

Procurement The project delivered an a ppropriate l egal a nd regulatory f ramework for pu blic
procurement and built capacity of staff to carry out procurement in line with the Law. Increased
transparency on c ontracts awarded i s a lso a w elcome de velopment. W hether the pr ocurement
process enshrined in Law is always followed in practice is less certain though.

Persistent Shortcomings The report could be improved if it better reflected some of the political
challenges internal t o M oF sp ecifically so me o f t he se tbacks ca used b y t he A dministration
Department's relationship with the rest o f t he MoF c ould h ave be en b rought out in the r eport.
The report has a tendency to treat progress in each of the thematic areas in isolation when in fact
there are strong linkages between progress (or lack of it) in one part of the system and others.

Recommendations Given t he a chievements that w ere obtained in building up s ustainable
capacities in the Treasury Department and the Internal Audit Department, the World Bank should
have considered a s pa rt o f the pr oject t o de velop case s tudies, w hich c ould be applied f or
information pur poses vis-à-vis o ther projects an d d onors so as to replicate t he ap proaches and
lessons learned, w hich appear particularly r elevant g iven t he general lack of su ccess in
transferring skills and building up capacities in other MoF departments and in line ministries that
are supported by donors.

The i nitiation of formalized a nd r egular coordination m eetings be tween the World Bank a nd
DFID as well as b etween t he p roject teams within the Treasury Department a nd t he B udget
Department to discuss relevant cross-cutting issues should have been undertaken (it is, however,
noted that also DFID did not take any such initiative).




                                                38
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Ministry of F inance, Office o f th e D eputy Minister for A dministration/Reform Implementation
and Management Unit
Public Administration Capacity Building Project
Borrower's Evaluation Report, November, 3, 2009, Kabul Afghanistan

I. Operation's Objective, Design, Implementation and Operational experience
As per the r equest of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, the Public Administration Capacity
Building P roject was l aunched on 2 May 2005 to maintain and e xpand the progress already
made under t he First and S econd E mergency P ublic A dministration P rojects (EPAP I a nd I I)
which i s not only to c ontinue t o provide t echnical assistance f or operational support i n
procurement, financial m anagement a nd a udit bu t a lso broaden the focus o n de veloping t he
regulatory and institutional framework in these core fiduciary management areas, further systems
development that is based on a full understanding of medium term requirements and the country's
implementation capacity and capacity building and training in the central agencies, line ministries
and the provinces so that staff can maintain and operate systems independently and effectively.

Originally, the overall objective of the Project was to assist the authorities to develop the capacity
to e ffectively m anage pu blic e xpenditures i n or der t o a chieve satisfactory and sustainable
development out comes in A fghanistan.          The Project w ill ha ve a particular e mphasis on
enhancing the performance o f public sector p rocurement, financial m anagement a nd
accountability systems.

However, after the midterm review carried out by the Bank (9-16 Oct 2006), it was proposed that
the objective statement to be modified due to slow progress on civil service reform and the delay
in c ontracting t he s ervices f or sk ills transfer as w ell as d ue t o t he fact t hat the st ated P roject
objective did not include achieving the fiduciary outcomes which were well supported by Project
activities and monitored by t he i ndicators. The objective statement was, therefore, modified as
below:

To enhance the performance of public sector procurement, financial management, and
accountability systems which will contribute to a more effective, transparent and accountable
state. This will be accomplished through operational support for treasury, internal audit and
external audit, and procurement functions, the reform in the related regulatory framework and
where feasible, capacity building.

The objective of the P roject w as w ell modified a nd defined and was addressing the main issue
which is low performance particularly in the field of public procurement, financial management
and audit in the government. It was mainly building upon the already progress made under EPAP
I and II. The Project focused on enhancing public administration performance in fiduciary areas.
The Project objective was based on the Ministry of Finance (MoF) needs, which is to move from
emergency support under the previous projects to a more sustainable phase. The Project, indeed,
helped bui ld c redibility of t he government w ith the d onors a nd thanks t o i t, the a mount of t he
donor assistance through the core budget has increased significantly compared to past.


                                                     39
To achieve t he a forementioned o bjective, the P roject was w ell d esigned and w as b asically
focusing in the areas of public procurement, financial management and accountability system i.e.
the internal and e xternal audit c apacity bu ilding a nd s ystem de velopment to m aintain the
standards of fiduciary control. The Project had five components and was well set up t o directly
address the mentioned areas. Through consultant services, the Project's components provided the
technical assistance for operational support in procurement, financial management and audit. As
planned, the P roject was implemented by M oF, the A fghanistan R esearch and Development
Services (ARDS) and the Control and Audit Office (CAO).
Both the Project's objectives and design were very supportive of the MoF/government goals for
an effective public finance management system. As MoF intends to establish an effective public
finance m anagement system bot h a t c entral and provincial levels and sound expenditure
management is a k ey p riority for MoF to e nsure fis cal sustainability, th e Project d irectly
addressed this issue and enabled MoF to effectively manage public resources and bring reforms in
the system.
The Project had five components as below:
Component 1: Strengthening Procurement Capacity within Government
This component of the project provided technical advisory support, equipment, and training to the
ARDS Procurement Unit and Procurement Policy Unit (PPU) in order to support line ministries
with the direct pr ocurement pr ocess and t o undertake a pr ocurement capacity bui lding pr ogram
within l ine ministries so t hat t hey c an b e p rogressively a ccredited w ith i ncreased d elegated
authority for procurement management within an agreed institutional and legal framework. T he
component f ocused on capacity bui lding of the c entral m inistries/budgetary entities and the
provinces. It e stablished t he Procurement P olicy U nit a nd s upported p romulgation and
implementation of the new procurement law and regulations.

Component 2: Strengthening Financial Management Capacity within Government
The financial management component provided technical assistance, equipment, and training to
the MoF and through MoF to line ministries in the achievement of core financial management
objectives including attaining efficiency in budget execution, fiscal reporting, accounting, and
internal controls. Activities under this component included, comprehensive financial
management information systems (FMIS) architecture study, further developing/upgrading of
Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS) to meet needs of the
government, technical advisory support to the MoF and to line ministries to strengthen core MoF
functions and managerial and professional development training in public sector financial
management for MoF and line ministries staff.

Component 3: Strengthening Internal Audit Capacity within Government
This component p rovided technical advisory s ervices, t raining, and e quipment t o s upport t he
internal a udit f unction within G overnment w hich w ould h elp to improve publ ic s ector
accountability a nd g overnance and s upport the establishment of sound f inancial management
within the government. A pr ogram of professional and t echnical training f or internal audit staff
was a lso carried o ut. The c omponent's intervention became limited just to M oF internal audit
due to suspension of the article # 61 of the PFEM Law.

Component 4: Strengthening External Audit Capacity within Government
The e xternal a udit component p rovided t echnical a dvisory services, equipment, and training t o
support the C AO i n s trengthening c apacity t o p rovide c omprehensive a uditing s ervices in
accordance with the International O rganization o f S upreme A udit I nstitutions ( INTOSAI)

                                                 40
auditing s tandards. Technical A ssistance w as provided to t he C AO i n o rder t o unde rtake core
audit operations to acceptable international standards and to provide on- the-job training for staff
in the CAO, develop professional accounting and audit capacity in the public and private sectors,
develop the system f or scrutiny and response to audit reports i ncluding r esponses by i nvolved
ministries and scrutiny by a Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament.

Component 5: Other Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
The component provided support for the IARCSC in the management of the PAR program and
supported MoF in capacity building t hrough ov erseas training pr ogram a nd with a general
management training for Mustofiats. Additionally, the Reform Implementation Management Unit
(RIMU) was established and made functional under the PACB project in March 2007.

II. Outcome of the Operation against Agreed Objectives:
The o bjective of t he P roject w as to e nhance t he performance of public s ector procurement,
financial m anagement, and accountability systems which w ill c ontribute to a more effective,
transparent and accountable state which would be accomplished through operational support for
treasury, internal audit a nd e xternal a udit, and pr ocurement f unctions, the reform i n t he r elated
regulatory framework and where feasible, capacity building.

The P roject results w ere measured a gainst so me k ey i ndicators i n 7 key ar eas (Regulatory
Framework, System Development, HR Capacity, Budget Execution, Accounting and Reporting,
External Accountability, Audit and Scrutiny and Economy, Efficiency and Transparency in Public
Procurement). Performance u nder e ach indicator w as satisfactory an d resulted in g reat
improvement and positive impact on MoF performance enabling it to move towards attainment of
its strategic goals and creating an enabling environment for the donor's assistance to be channeled
through government.          The P roject t argeted the Procurement, F inancial Management a nd
Accountability S ystem w hich are i ndispensible f or a sound and effective publ ic finance
management system.

The revised legal framework for MoF operations developed under the Project enabled the MoF to
move forward t oward ot her r eforms. F urther upgrading a nd de veloping of A FMIS a nd
implementation of Verified Payroll Program (VPP) brought a lot of efficiency, effectiveness and
control in the system. VPP has helped in payment of monthly salaries in a timely and transparent
manner to legitimate employees of the government. The roll out of AFMIS to 18 pr ovinces and
45 m inistries/ budg etary entities as o f e nd of June 2009 ha s resulted i n capture o f financial
information for a lmost 87% of t otal O perating B udget e xecution, resulting i n improved budg et
control, fund accountability and transparency of operations.

Concerning i nstitutional d evelopment a nd H R capacity building, PRR pr ocess has a lmost
completed i n Treasury, Internal Audit a nd f or t he Audit P ositions i n CAO, which he lped i n
institutional de velopment of these departments. C apacity bui lding i n the f ield of i nternal and
external au dit, p rocurement, an d training f or Mustofiat Managers h ave been of great value a nd
importance. However, the suspension of the article no 61 of the PFEM Law limited the scope of
internal audit only to MoF and the built capacity therein couldn't be utilized and expanded the
way it should have been done.

The operation support for the budget execution and accounting and reporting and external audit
improved a great deal the expenditure management at MoF. Establishment of Cash Management
Committee, preparation of monthly cash f orecasts, preparation of monthly f inancial statements,
conduct of m onthly r econciliation of the bu dget e xecution, a udit of the c ore budget f inancial


                                                   41
statements and timely submission of it to the Parliament are good examples of progress in budget
execution, accounting and reporting and external scrutiny.

Direct operation support for government procurement through ARDS and establishment of PPU
to help promulgate and implement new procurement law and build the capacity of line ministries
in procurement field for s ustainability pur pose are great s teps initiated under t his Project. T he
detail of the performance under each indicator is as below.

1. Regulatory Framework
Indicators: New budget law and financial regulations promulgated and under implementation;
new audit law and regulations promulgated and under implementation; New public procurement
law and regulations promulgated and under implementation; Establishment of procurement
policy unit at an appropriate hierarchy within government.

New Public F inance a nd Expenditure M anagement ( PFEM) Law 2005 a nd r egulations ha ve
been completed and promulgated. Regarding new audit law, the PFEM Law Article # 59 includes
provision for independent audit certification of the annual accounts. A draft Audit Law covering
the o peration o f the C AO pr ovides f or t he C AO t o ope rate i n a ccordance w ith international
standards is with the MoJ, but a revised text of the draft is also being examined by the CAO to
adjust references to timing of audits and relation to internal audit.

About Procurement, Procurement Law was enacted 2005. Rules of Procedures were developed,
approved within the Ministry i n A pril 200 7. Transaction of B usiness R ules f or S pecial
Procurement Commission w as approved a nd adopted i n MoF on M arch 20 07. S BDs were
developed and SBDs for Goods, RFQ Document were issued. The new Procurement Law 2008
enacted in July 2008 (and its subsequent amendment made in January 2009) needed alignment of
all the drafted SBDs which are getting finalized.

PPU w as e stablished a nd has be en ope rating unde r advisors since A ugust, 20 07. I nstitutional
Development report for the PPU is under finalization.
2. System Development:
Indicators: Key business processes identified and agreed for core financial management
functions; Plan agreed for a phased implementation of a fully functional AFMIS throughout
government; Specific policies, processes, systems and standards established for internal and
external audit functions; Establishment of procurement functions and performance benchmarks in
line ministries.

AFMIS Systems S tudy was completed i n June 2006. I mmediate s oftware e nhancements
recommended by t he study w ere i mplemented by the e nd of Aug 2006. T he dr aft AFMIS
Countrywide Time boun d R ollout P lan w as a pproved i n S eptember 2 006.The study
implementation of the rollout plan resulted in extending AFMIS to 18 provincial mustofiats and
45 line ministries/budgetary entities by the end of June 2009. The provincial mustofiats exploit all
the current functionality available in AFMIS, include cheque printing. Total checks issued from
AFMIS have increased from approximately 53,000 in 1385 (2006) to 67,000 in 1386 (2007) and
130,000 in 13 87 (2008), primarily a s a result o f t he e xtension of AFMIS to l argest b udget
executing provinces. An Accounting Manual prepared by the FM Consultant was delivered to the
Treasury in Dec 2006.

Regarding e xternal a nd internal audit s ystem de velopment, dr aft l aw ba sed on i nternational
standards t hat a re s uitable t o t he C AO i s w ith t he MoJ. C AO i s a lso w orking t o make s ome

                                                  42
amendments w hich have been s uggested by t he World Bank a fter M idterm R eview. The audit
manual for the CAO has been completed by Deloittes and a workshop for staff to launch was held
early 2008. T he I nternal Audit D epartment ( IAD) drafted a ne w I A M anual ba sed on I IA
standards w hich w as a pproved by t he A udit C ommittee du ring the m eeting he ld on 16 March
2008. R egarding e stablishment of pr ocurement f unctions i n l ine m inistries, a J oint A dvisory
Committee c onsisting of PPU, IARCSC and line m inistries representatives are f inalizing the
organizational s tructure a nd T oRs of the pos itions. The I nstitutional D evelopment report for 7
ministries is at the advanced stage of finalization.
3. HR Capacity
Indicators: Sustained implementation of PRR in institutions responsible for core financial
management functions; On the job training and professional training programs in place and
designated to meet agreed capacity development milestones so that staff can take over the
operation of function/system within defined period of time; Line ministry procurement staff
trained and accredited according to agreed certification plan.
As of end of June 2009, the Treasury Department PRR process in the Headquarter has completed
95% and all F inancial C ontroller positions ha ve un dergone P RR. The pr ocess ha s also been
accelerated in the Provinces. All audit posts in the CAO have gone through the PRR process. In
the Internal Audit Department, the process has completed 85%.
Regarding the training, in the Treasury Department the initial training strategy was completed in
March 20 06 in c onjunction w ith t he completion o f a Training N eeds A ssessment, a nd w as
updated i n S eptember 200 7. A L ocal Training A dviser ha s c ompleted de livery of S tage One
Management S kills C ourses. Mat erials f or S tage T wo M anagement S kills co urses h ave b een
presented. 40 trainees have been recruited and are undergoing on the Job training in the Treasury
Department.
In C OA, E nglish a nd IT teachers h ave be en engaged t o take ov er f rom t he t eachers p rovided
under the Deloitte contract. IT t eacher commenced i n October 2007 and English t eacher in Jan
2008. I n a ddition to the s tudents enrolled for C AT, CAO now ha s the f irst o f 4 g roups of 30
students s tarted in 3 month f ull time s tudy i n E nglish, I T a nd a udit m ethods ( 120 ov er 12
months). SAI of India contracted to send trainers later in 2008 for class room and for on the job
training.
To build the capacity of the internal audit staff to conduct professional audits, MoF contracted
Bakhtar University, earlier called Afghanistan International University of Management Sciences
(AIUMS), on an SSS basis to provide class room training in basic accounting and auditing to 400
auditors of MoF, CAO and other line ministries in four cycles of training. The training started and
the end of 1385 (Jan 2007) and completed in the month of Sunbula 1387 (Sep 2008). During this
period, a total of 365 government staff were trained, of whom 92 belonged to MoF IA Dept and
32 to other MoF Depts and the rest 241 related to the CAO, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of
Interior, other line ministries, Independent Offices of the Government and of ficials of the local
commercial banks . O ut of t he 365 s taff, 158 of t hem w ere t rained i n 138 5 ( 2006) a nd 138 6
(2007) and 207 of them were trained in 1387(2008).

In t he f ield of p rocurement, a ll l ine m inistries ha ve be en a ssessed a nd i dentified and 6 local
trainers were selected and Training of Trainers was completed. Since the inception of the training
program in 1387 ( 2008), 1023 of ficials from 29 ministries/procuring e ntities and 5 pr ovinces
(Herat, Kunduz, Balkh, Kandahar and Nangarhar) have completed the course of different levels
i.e. Basic, Intermediate and Advanced in which 814 trainees completed Basic course, 119~trainees
completed Intermediate course and 90 attended other courses.


                                                   43
Additionally, a core group of 43 y oung, mid ­ management l evel staff of M oF completed on e
year training on Accounting, Management, Computer and English through OTP Malaysia Project.
~ Out of 43 trained staff, one of them didn't return and 12 of them have left the MoF.
Under G eneral Training f or Mustofiat M anagers (GTMM), 145 M ustofiats' m anagers f rom a ll
Mustofiats c ompleted on e m onth r esidential course in Financial M anagement, H RM,
Communications, B udgeting, Q uality C ontrol, Q uality Assurance, Leadership, a nd P lanning.
Totally 8 sessions were held and the training program started on 18 Feb 2007 and ended on 4 Dec
2007. The second phase of GTMM started in Nov 2008 for 200 mustofiats mid level managers.
Till end June 2009, 162 staff of Mustofiats were trained.

4. Budget Execution.
Effectiveness of cash flow planning, management and monitoring; evidence that budgeted
resources reach spending units in a timely and transparent manner; effectiveness of internal
controls; effectiveness of internal audit; effectiveness of payroll controls.

The C ash M anagement Committee, e stablished i n 1 386 ( 2007), has m et r egularly on m onthly
basis for resolving c ash management i ssues and f or sharing i nformation. Monthly cash position
and forecasts a re b eing pr epared a nd tabled a t the Committee. P RR e mployees of the Cash
Management U nit ha ve be en a ssigned r esponsibility for s ub-tasks r equired f or preparing c ash
projections.

Execution rates in provinces are still significantly lower than for Central Ministries. The Treasury
manages fund requirements for budget execution in provinces by transferring funds on m onthly
basis using allotments and cash projections as basis.

About i nternal a udit, t ill e nd of 1387 ( March 2009), 99 e ntities including 39 pr ovincial a nd 60
central w ere audited und er t he g uidance of t he international consultants (on-the-job trainers).
Recommendations were sent to most of the above mentioned audited offices. The IAD exceeded
its a nnual t arget by 48 % a s 67 entities w ere p lanned and 99 w ere a udited. H owever, t he IAD
could not succeed to conduct the audit of other government budgetary units due to the suspension
of article # 61 of the PFEM Law.

Regarding e ffectiveness o f payroll, s oftware for g enerating payrolls has be en e stablished i n 42
accounting offices at the centre. Pilot implementation of the payroll system will be undertaken in
2 provincial mustofiats du ring f irst quarter o f 1388 (2009). As of end of June 2009, V erified
Payroll Program addresses payroll for 164,000 civil servants who receive their payments through
direct deposit in their bank accounts.

5. Accounting and Reporting:
Indicators: Timeliness and regularity of data reconciliation; timeliness, quality and
dissemination of in-year budget execution reports; timeliness and quality of audited financial
statements submitted to the legislature and donors.

Monthly r econciliations o f budg et e xecution has been e stablished, both f or the ope rating a nd
development budgets. C ore Budget Audited Qatia statements for 1385 (2006) and 1386 (2007)
have been submitted annually within six months from the end of each fiscal year to Parliament.
Procedures are in place for monthly reconciliation of TSA accounts and Special Accounts under
the Development Budget, within 25-30 days from the end of each month. Treasury has developed
its w ebsite s ince the M oF s ite w as non operational for e xtended pe riods. M onthly r eports a re
posted on the dedicated treasury website w ithin 28 days f rom e nd of each month. T he S pecial
Disbursements U nit pr ocedures ha ve be en suitably modified t o e nable capturing of

                                                  44
Development Budget transactions be fore t he pa yment instructions a re s ubmitted to t he ba nk.
Thus, all pertaining transactions for a month are recorded in that month.

External Accountability, Audit and Scrutiny:
Indicators: The scope and nature of external audit; follow up audit reports by the executive or
audited entity; legislative scrutiny of external audit reports.

Audits of t he A RTF R ecurrent C ost T rust F und and 31 d evelopment g rant/credit audits in
1386 ( 2007) are c onducted us ing international s tandards; w hich w ere ov erdue a nd behind
schedule.

Audit of the state budget statement ( Qatia) was done for 1384 (2005) on time and pr esented to
Parliament. The a udit r eview w as not done to international a uditing standards and no concrete
assurance by way of an audit opinion certificate was provided. The audit of the 1385 s tatement
was on t ime and f or the first time included an audit op inion c ertificate. This was a pos itive
opinion for both the Development and Ordinary Budget Qatias. Audit of 1386 (2007) state budget
statement was also carried out in time and there was an improvement in the quality of the report
though there is still a gap to meet international auditing standards.

The CAO has appointed an Advisor to the AG to examine the audit approach to the Qatia audit so
that t he a udit for 1387 (2008) w ould be un dertaken us ing a more modern a pproach c loser t o
international s tandards. The 1386 ( 2007) s tate budget s tatement audit has been responded to i n
full by MoF. MoF agreed with all the observations made by CAO. The 1386 (2007) audit report
noted that audit guidance issues presented in previous years had not been attended to by the MoF.
The 1385 (2006) report summarizes the main issues.

Public Account C ommittee ha s be en f ormed but i s not ope rative. A G ha s m et with c hair and
offered t o brief the Committee on 1385 (2006) m anagement l etter issues w hen it is f unctional.
Nonetheless, Budget a nd Finance C ommittee h ad d iscussions w ith MoF and C AO on 1386
(2007) audit report.

Economy, Efficiency and Transparency:
Indicators: Percentage of contracts subject to competitive bidding; absence of major delays in
the processing and payment of contracts; comparability of prices paid by the public sector to
pricing of items available in the market place; regular publication of opportunities and outcomes
of public contracts.

By ARDS, a ll c ases a re ha ndled through c ompetitive bi dding procedure a s required by
Procurement Law. Publication of opportunity is done 100% on w ebsite and also in newspapers.
Publication of outcome of public contracts is about 95%. However, by PPU it is still pending and
will be done a fter i mplementation of M IS and w ebsite a nd monitoring by P PU shall start after
MIS implementation.

III. Borrower's Own Performance, Emphasizing Lessons Learned

The Ministry of F inance t hrough its office of the D eputy M inister f or A dministration pr ovided
full support t o implementation of the P roject. At initial stages a d hoc m eetings of t he P roject
were he ld, but later o n t he S teering C ommittee c haired by H E Deputy M inister for
Administration was f ormed. The Steering C ommittee m eetings of t he P roject were, then, he ld
regularly, which created synergy and kept the momentum. The Ministry of Finance did its best to
ensure smooth running of the Project as the execution of it was important for many objectives of

                                                 45
the Ministry Strategic Plan to be attained. The way the Project was managed both by the MoF and
the B ank w as a l iving e xample of g ood governance, w hich ne eds t o b e considered in t he
implementation of the other Technical Assistance Project in the Ministry.

The Reform Implementation and M anagement Unit provided secretariat support t o t he Steering
Committee as well as handled the coordination, monitoring, finance and administration activities
of the Project, which well contributed to the Project effectiveness.

Finally, as capacity building lies in the forefront of MoF agenda, effective management of such
projects by the Borrower enables it to be self-reliant in the long run. This needs to be addressed
through a benchmarking mechanism whereby the international consultants gradually transfer the
required knowledge and skills to local staff and closely monitored by the respective department
head.

IV. Performance of the Bank

The B ank pr ovided full support a nd a ssistance to i mplementation o f t he P roject. The B ank
Supervision Mission took place annually a nd the midterm r eview of t he Project w as c onducted
and the r ecommendations of t he S upervision Missions were implemented which b rought
improvements to the Project. Ad hoc supervisory visits by the Bank supported the Project team
in carrying out t heir a ctivities s moothly. T he Ministry of F inance highly a ppreciates the Bank
support i n g eneral a nd t hat of M r. P aul E. S isk, t he T ask T eam Leader, i n pa rticular w hose
effective a nd ou tstanding s upervision and support a nd technical i nputs contributed very
positively to the Project's effectiveness and thus on MoF performance enabling it to achieve its
goals.

V. Technical, Institutional, and Financial Sustainability of Activities Initiated under the
Project after Project Closure

The Project activities now seems to be somehow sustainable pa rticularly in the Internal Audit
Department as much capacity has been developed there and the Department is now able to carry
out its activities with little technical assistance and external support. H owever, the activities in
the f ield of f inancial m anagement, pr ocurement a nd e xternal a udit a re moving t owards
sustainability and after t he Project c losure, s till t here is need f or the e xternal support f rom t he
Bank to follow on the tasks undertaken under this Project. The issue of being self-reliance and
sustainable is now early to judge it upon the outcomes of this Project.

This i s mainly due t o s low administrative r eforms process i mplementation i n the government
during the lifetime of the Project and capacity couldn't be transferred the way it should have been
done a s it needed a r e-structured and reformed de partment a s a prerequisite for t ransfer of the
capacity. A lso, delay i n c ontracting s ervices for the s kills t ransfer f or i nternal audit a nd
procurement hampered the pace of the capacity transfer, which even resulted in modification of
the Project Objective as stated in the page # 2 of this report and diverted the main focus of the
Project f rom capacity building t o enhancing f iduciary out comes through c ontracting s ervices.
Secondly, the g overnment very l ow pay s ystem couldn't help t o r etain the staff w ith higher
capacity built under the Project and some of the government staff left the MoF during the Project
lifetime.

Thirdly, the success and sustainability of the activities undertaken by this Project depends upon
the performance of all budgetary entities in the related fields particularly in the field of financial
management and procurement and taking into consideration the scope and time of this Project, it

                                                   46
wasn't possible to institutionally develop and build the capacity of all the budgetary/procuring
entities.

For sure, there has been sustainable institutional development in the MoF. Restructured Internal
Audit and Treasury D epartments f illed w ith P RR s taff a re good e xamples of this. N onetheless,
given the vast scope of the activities under the Project, it, indeed, needs another project to follow
on t he a ssistance pr ovided unde r t his P roject, which ha s a lready been tackled through t he
initiative of the Bank under the Public Finance Management Reform Project.

The Project was undeniably a stepping stone and a success pace which enables whole the public
finance management system to be self-reliant in the long run in coordination with other relevant
TA Projects in the ministry.

Methodology

The Borrower's Evaluation of the PACB Project included:
    I. Review and examination of the below relevant documents:
         · Project Document Technical Annex , 27 Dec 2004
         · MTR Aide Memoire 7-9 Oct 2006
         · Data Sheet for the Project Paper, 6 Dec 2006
         · PACB and PFMR Aide Memoire 31st July 2008
         · PACB Performance Monitoring Report 30 Dec 2008


    II. Interview and Discussion with:
           ·   Mr. Abdul Razique Samadi, Deputy Minister for Administration
           ·   Mr. Mohammad Aqa, Treasury Director General
           · Mr. Mohammad Naeem Dindar, Internal Audit Director General
           · Mr. Sayed Murtaza, Head of Procurement Policy Unit
           · Jamal Nasir, Project Coordinator, Internal Audit Department




                                                 47
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

    ·   Project Implementation Plan

    ·   Technical Annex for Afghanistan: Public Administration Capacity Building Project
        (PACBP) dated December 27, 2004 (Report No: T764 1 -AF )

    ·   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

    ·   Project Progress Reports.

    ·   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated November 3, 2009


*including electronic files




                                             48
