                                                                                   38655


                                    DATA SHEET FOR

                                     PROJECTPAPER


                                                 Task Team Leader: Paul Sisk
  country:       Afghanistan                     Sector Manager:     Robert Saum
 Project Name: Public Administration             Country Director:   Alastair McKechnie
 Capacity BuildingProject                        Environmental category: C
 Proiect ID:     PO84736
 Borrower: Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan
 Responsible agency: Ministry o f Finance
rRevised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
 FY             I2005           I2006          I2007          I2008           I2009
 Annual            0.8           2.4             8.8           9.0             6.0
I Cumulative       0.8           3.2             12.0          21.0            27.0
  Current closing date: June 30,2009



 Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?
 Have these been approved by Bank management?
 I s approval for any policy exceptionsought from the Board?

 Revisedproject development objective

 To enhance the performance o f public sector procurement, financial management, and
 accountability systems which will contribute to a more effective, transparent, and
  accountable state. This will be accomplished through operational support to the
 recipient's treasury, internal and external audit and procurement functions; the reform o f
 the related regulatory framework and where feasible, capacity building.


 Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o




 Others
 Total                                               2.0.        25.0              27.0


                            PROPOSALTO RESTRUCTURE
      THE PUBLICADMINISTRATION CAPACITYBUILDINGPROJECT
                     IDA H144-AF(P084736)FORAFGHANISTAN

IntroductoryStatement

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval ofthe ExecutiveDirectorsto introducethe
following changes inthe Afghanistan, Public Administration Capacity BuildingProject,
IDAGrant Number - IDA H-144, ProjectID- P084736, and any accompanying
amendmentsto the project's legal documents, specially the Development Grant
Agreement (DGA) dated February 16,2006.

2.      Theproposed changes would include:

    (i)amendingtheProjectDevelopmentObjective(PDO)tomoreaccuratelyreflect
        the original intent o f the GOA and donors, to assure a highlevel o f integrity inthe
        management o f public sector resources when these were growing rapidly to
        finance post conflict reconstruction. The change would have the effect of
        emphasizing the priority that i s already beinggivento meetingthis goal through
        all o f the means provided for inthe project, and reducingthe focus on meeting
        this goal through internal capacity building(a longer term, albeit a desirable
        strategy); and
    (ii)reducingthe scope of training activities intended to contribute to buildinginternal
        MOF and line ministry capacity, which are beinghampered by lagging
        recruitmentof trainable managerial staff following merit-based principles, slower-
        than anticipated restructuring of line ministries, and difficulties inmobilizing
        qualified specialized trainers owing to security risks inthe country.

3.      The project is currently meetingthe operations support andcapacity building
objectives that were originally intendedalthough capacity buildingactivities have lagged
due to the lack of qualified counterparts. Modifyingthe development objective will raise
the level of explicit accountability for meetingthese objectives. Reducingthe scope o f
training activities that have not yet begunand adjusting the related human development
outcomes provide an opportunity and incentiveto reconsider the overall strategy ina
forthcoming project to improve MOF performance through staff development where
possible, and contracting out services where attractive. The closing date and the Grant
amount remainunchanged.

Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

4.     The project was approved on January 27,2005 andbecame effective on May 2,
2005. The project's original objective was "to assist the authorities to develop the
capacity to effectively managepublic expendituresin order to achieve satisfactory and
sustainable development outcomes in Afghanistan. Theproject has aparticular focus on


                                               2

enhancing theperformance ofpublic sector procurement,financial management and
accountability systems."

5.       The project included a component dedicated to each o f the focus areas that
provided for operational support through consultant services to assure that basic public
finance functions were performed. The terms o f reference for these consultants also
contained references to providing training, but this was not the principle mandate. Of the
seven monitoring indicators agreed as part of the Grant Agreement, only one referred to
humanresource capacity buildingwith the objective of providing staff the capacity "to
take over operation o f functionshystems within a definedperiod o f time." It was evident
therefore that even in the original drafting of the development objective, "develop the
capacity" was intended to imply that MOF be able to perform the necessary functions,
rather than training staff who could eventually performthe functions.

6.       A restatement o f the development objective at this time would remove the
ambiguities that have arisen from the original drafting and give a more realistic and
monitorablebasis for assessingthe project's eventual outcome.

7.       As designed,the project's components continued to provide the technical
assistancefor operational support inprocurement, financial management andaudit which
was put inplace on an emergency basis at the beginning of the reconstructionunder the
Emergency Public Administration Project, IDA Grant HOO6-AF (PO77417). However,
underthis project, the scope ofthese ongoingactivitieswas broadenedto include:

    (i)       developing the regulatory and institutional framework in these core fiduciary
              management areas;
    (ii)      further systems development that i s based on a full understanding o f medium-
              term requirements and the country's implementation capacity; and
    (iii)     capacity building and training in the central agencies, but also in line
              ministries and the provinces so that staff could maintain and operate systems
              independently and effectively. However, as stated, this set o f activities was
              not well identified inthe original design.

8.       Progress inmeetingthe fiduciary outcomes (the primary objective) under the
project has been impressive, as documented inthe Bank's assessment of public financial
management' andthe monitoring underthe Programmatic Support for Institution
Building' operations. Progress inmeetingthe project's development objectives hasbeen
rated inthe ISRsas moderately satisfactory. The implementationprogress rating,
however, reflects the current content o f weight of capacity buildingand i s considered



IAfghanistan, Managing Public Finances for Development.
 A series o fDevelopmentPolicy lending operations aimed at supporting the implementation o fthe
Government o f Afghanistan's (GOA)medium-term development strategy. The overall objective o fthe
second o fthese operations is to continue deepening, broadening, and sustaining the reforms underway in
the areas o fpublic administration andfiscal management. This operation complements a series ofIDA
projects aiming at strengthening public finance management, raising fiduciary standards and supporting
public administration reform.

moderately unsatisfactory owing to lack of progress inthe humanresource development
sub-components.

9.      Progress has also been made inimplementing all o f the project's components with
the exception ofproviding training andhumandevelopment services. Two critical
developments have underminedprogress inthese areas.

 10.    Firstly, the Treasury Department ofthe MOF, at least to October 2006, hadnot
filled middle management positions that had been authorized so the opportunity for
training has been severely restricted. Similarly, many line ministries have not carried out
the organization andcivil service reformsnecessaryto support buildingcapacity in
procurement units and internal audit departments. This i s partly explained by slow
progress inimplementing the Government's overall public administration reform
program aimed at layingthe foundation for reformingroles o f line ministries,
modernizing public sector pay scales and building core public administration capacity.
The assumption that there would be complementary structural reformthat would result in
an expansion o f capacity to absorb development assistancefor capacity buildinginthree
years provednot to be realistic.

 11.    Secondlv, where training was considered possible, difficulties have arisen with
mobilizing specialist consultants to provide the service due to the security concerns.
Taken together, therefore, these two factors make it unlikelythat a full training program
can be accomplished; as formal training inTreasury will not now be actively pursuedand
only the initial stages o f procurement training will be completed inthe project's life. This
decision will leadto a modest saving inexpected costs, which will provide resourcesto
planfor a follow-on projectthat will re-examine the basic strategy of combiningbuilding
capacity in-house with outsourcing critical fiduciary functions inorder to maximize
overall institutional performance.

ProposedChanges

12.    The project development objective will be modifiedto read:

       To enhance theperformance of public sector procurement,financial management,
       and accountability systems which will contribute to a more effective, transparent
       and accountable state. This will be accomplished through operational supportfor
       treasury, internal audit and external audit, andprocurementfunctions, the reform
       in the related regulatoryframework and wherefeasible, capacity building.

13.    This drafting will make explicit the central focus o f the project on the fiduciary
work underway and align the stated objective with the better public sector expenditure
outcomes as expressed inthe monitoring indicators agreed by Government.

14.    Training will be reduced to what now appears to be feasible, and the monitoring
indicators on the human development outcomes will be adjusted to bringthese inline
with what is achievable underthe updated external context andthe late initiation ofthe
relatedtraining services. These steps will enhancethe usefulness o f the indicators inthe


                                              4

management ofthe project's activities leadingto better informed decisions and
evaluations.

 15.     The late initiation ofthe procurement and internal audit capacity building
contracts implies that a portion o f the activity could take place after the project's closing
date andit i s expected that those activities will be financed ina follow-up project
supporting further public financial management reform. Supported with modest savings
resultingfrom fewer training activities, the present project will introduce a new activity
underthe blanket provisiono f support for general institutional strengthening (Component
5) devoted to preparing the framework for the follow-on project which i s included inthe
IDA allocations inthe country strategy for fiscal year 2007. Savings vis-a-vis the initial
project budget on the procurement component would also be transferred to the Financial
Management Operations component to cover the unforeseen cost o f additional local
advisors, requiredto cover the staffing gaps resultingfrom delayed recruitment o f civil
servants inmiddle management inthe Treasury Department.

 16.     A RevisedSchedule of Withdrawal ofProceedsofthe Grant appearsin
Attachment 1.An amount o f 360,000 SDR equivalent will be moved from the
"Unallocated" category to the "Incremental Operating Costs" category to assist inthe
financing o f operating costs to support the implementationo f the procurement facilitation
consultant.

 17.     There are no other complementary changes.

Analysis

 18.     The proposed restatement ofthe development objective and slowing o f capacity
buildingactivities will not leadto a change inenvironmental rating. These modifications
do not contradict existing Bank policies.

19.      The lowering o f expectations for the human development outcomes, however,
does diminishthe expected social returninterms o f institutionalcapacity development
and recognizes the continued dependency o fthe Ministryo f Finance on contracted
operations support. This implies continuing external financing since domestic revenue
would not support these costs, andthat achieving longer term "sustainability" may be
postponed. The Government and the donors have generally accepted that inan
emergency phase, contracted operations support may temporarily crowd out capacity
building.Moreover, it i s recognized that the training inbasic skills must be addressed
first, inorder for the highlevel skills to be absorbed and that reform o f the civil service
mustprecedethe transfer of full operating responsibilityto civil servants. The
modifications therefore contribute to the proper sequencing of capacity buildingwith the
incentives and the organizationalchanges beingput inplace along with skills transfer.

Expected Outcomes

20.     The changes introducedinthe project objective will not affect the expected
outcomes o fthe project, but only clarify and recognize original intentions. The output
indicators for humandevelopment will be re-scaled to end-of-project target levels that are

                                                5

 attainable inthe remaining life o f the project. A Revised Schedule of Performance
 Indicators appears inAttachment 2.


 Benefitsand Risks

21.      There is no substantial change inthe major plannedbenefits of the project as a
result of these modifications, with the exception of lowered expectations for training and
humancapacity development. The risks to attainment o f the restated project development
goals i s low as the Governmentcontinues to demonstrate commitment to the plansand the
key technical assistance contracts are inplace.




                                               6


                                     Attachment1
            RevisedSchedule of Withdrawalsof the Proceedsof the Grant


1.      The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds ofthe Grant, the allocation ofthe amounts ofthe Grant to each category and the
percentageof expendituresfor items so to befinanced ineachcategory:


                             Amount of the
                             Grant Allocated                         % of
                             (Expressedin                        Expenditures
   Category                  SDREquivalent)                      to be Financed


(1) Consultants'               16,350,000                        100%
    services and
    training

(2) Goods                         410,000                        100%

(3) Works                         140,000                        100%

(4) Incremental Operating Costs 700,000                          100%

(5) Unallocated                   800,000                        100%

        TOTAL                   18,400,000




                                           7


                                    Attachment 2
                    Revised Schedule of Performance Indicators
  Purusant to Paragraph B(a) of Schedule 4 to the Development Grant Agreement

                          Performance Monitoring Indicators

                  Goals                     Monitoring Indicators [OC' - outcome;
                                            [OP]- output
To enhancethe performance of financial      Regular Framework. New budgetlaw and
management and accountability systems       financial regulations promulgated and
which will contribute to a more effective,  underimplementation; new audit law and
transparent and accountable state.          regulations promulgatedand under
                                            implementation. [OP/OC]

                                            SystemsDevelopment. Key business
                                            process identified and agreed for core
                                            financial management functions; specific
                                            policies, processes, systems and standards
                                            established for internal and external audit
                                            functions; plan agreed for a phased
                                            implementation o f a fully functional
                                            AFMIS throughout Government. [OP]

                                            HR Capacity. Sustained implementationof
                                            PRR ininstitutions responsible for core
                                            financial management functions; on-the-job
                                            to a more designedfor future
                                            implementation. [OP/OC]

                                            Budget Execution. Effectiveness o f cash
                                            flow planning, management and
                                            monitoring; evidence that budgeted
                                            resources reach spendingunits ina timely
                                            andtransparent manner; effectiveness of
                                            internal controls; effectiveness o f internal
                                            audit; effectiveness o f payroll controls.
                                            [OP/OC]

                                            Accounting and Reporting. Timeliness and
                                            regularity o f data reconciliation; timeliness,
                                            quality and disseminationo f in-year budget
                                            executionreports; timeliness and quality o f
                                            audited financial statements submittedto
                                            the legislature and donors. [OP/OC]




                                           8

                                            External Accountability, Audit and
                                            Scrutiny. The scope &d nature o f external
                                            audit; follow up o f audit reports by the
                                            executive or audited entity. [OP/OC]

To enhancethe performance o fpublic         Regularity Framework. New public
sector procurement which will contribute to procurement law and regulations
a more effective, transparent and           promulgated and under implementation;
accountable state.                          establishment o f a procurement policy law
                                            at an appropriate hierarchy within
                                            Government. [OP/OC]

                                            Systems Development. Establishment of
                                            procurement functions andperformance
                                            benchmarks inline ministries. [OP/OC]

                                            HR Capacity. Lineministryprocurement
                                            stafftraining andaccreditationand
                                            certification program inplace [OP/OC]

                                            Economy, Effectiveness and Transparency.
                                            Percentageof contracts subject to
                                            completive bidding; absence o f major
                                            delays inthe processing and payment of
                                            contracts; comparability o f prices paidby
                                            the public sector to pricing of items
                                            available inthe market place; regular
                                            publicationo f opportunities and outcomes
                                            o fpublic contacts. [OP/OC]




                                           9

