                                                                           86044




           SOLOMON ISLANDS COCOA VALUE CHAIN ANALYSIS


                                 FEBRUARY 2014


                          Dan Vadnjal and Moses Pelomo
World Bank, Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Mondelez International
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1.       INTRODUCTION
     1.1 Background
     1.2 Rationale
     1.3 Methodology

2.         POLICIES AND STRATEGIES
     2.1   Economic and National Development
     2.2   Agriculture Sector and Cocoa Industry Development
     2.3   Infrastructure and Transport
     2.4   Institutional and Regulatory Framework
     2.5   Development Partners

3.       DOMESTIC AND GLOBAL MARKETS
     3.1 Domestic Trends
     3.2 Global Trends

4.       VALUE CHAIN ANALYSIS
     4.1 Overview
     4.2 Methodology
     4.3 Results

5.         CHALLENGES

6.         CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

ANNEXES
Annex I           Gross Margins Analysis
Annex II          Exporter Profiles
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

ACIAR           Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research
AusAID          Australian Agency for International Development
CEMA            Commodities Export Marketing Authority
CIF             Cost, Insurance, Freight,
CLIP            Cocoa Livelihoods Improvement Program
CMAWG           Cocoa Market Access Working Group
DFAT            Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
DML             Direct Marketing Limited
EU              European Union
FACT            Facilitating Agricultural Commodity Trade
FoB             Free on Board
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
IACT            Increasing Agricultural Commodity Trade
ICCO            International Cocoa Organisation
IES             International Enterprise Singapore
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPDM            Integrated Pest and Disease Management
ITC             International Trade Centre
KOA             Key Outcome Areas
LTCM            London Terminal Commodity Market
MAL             Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MCILI           Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Labour and Immigration
MDPAC           Ministry of Development Planning and Aid Coordination
MAWG            Market Access Working Group
NCDPS           National Cocoa Development Policy and Strategy
NCID            National Cocoa Industry Development
NCS             National Cocoa Secretariat
NCSC            National Cocoa Steering Committee
NDS             Solomon Islands National Development Strategy
PAR             Participatory Action Research
PARDI           Pacific Agriculture Research and Development Initiative
PCCC            Provincial Cocoa Coordinating Committee
PHAMA           Pacific Horticulture and Agriculture Market Access Program
PIC             Pacific Island Country
PNG             Papua New Guinea
R&D             Research and Development
SBD             Solomon Islands Dollar
SEF             Supplemental Equity Facility
SIAQS           Solomon Islands Agriculture Quarantine Services
SICIPS          Solomon Islands Cocoa Industry Policy and Strategies
SIPA            Solomon Islands Ports Authority
SIG             Solomon Islands Government
SIRDP           Solomon Islands Rural Development Program
ToR             Terms of Reference




                                        2
                                     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The objective of this value chain analysis is to identify the most promising opportunities for
increasing the contribution that the sale of cocoa can make to rural livelihoods and the national
economy. The analysis aims to map cocoa value chains, focused on elaborating practical pathways to
improving production and marketing and where feasible developing partnerships between domestic,
international and other stakeholders. The results of the analysis reported here will feed into the design
of agriculture sector interventions within the follow-on Solomon Islands Rural Development Program
(SIRDP).

There is clear commitment by the Solomon Islands Government (SIG) to the Solomon Islands cocoa
industry and development partners have and continue to provide diverse technical and financial
support including this report which is jointly commissioned by the World Bank, Australian Aid
Programme and Mondelez as an input to the design of agriculture sector interventions within the
follow-on SIRDP.

There are also demonstrable benefits that could accrue with efforts to increase production of Solomon
Islands cocoa. Market trends analysis demonstrates that prices have increased by on average 13% and
related to this production has increased by on average 5% over the last decade to 2013; and based on
forecasted price increases of between 10% and 30% annual production is realistically expected to
reach what is considered to be an achievable target of around 10,000 Metric tons by 2020. Value
chain analysis demonstrates that smallholder gross margins are around SBD 11 million annually, or
over SBD 40 million annually including processors, and total gross margins are around SBD 55
million annually, at today’s price; and based on forecasted price increases of between 10% and 30%
smallholder gross margins are expected to reach between around SBD 15 million and SBD 24 million
annually, or between around SBD 35 million and SBD 45 million annually including processors, and
total gross margins are expected to more than double to over SBD 90 million annually.

Realising the sorts of benefits that could potentially accrue to stakeholders in the cocoa value chain,
as illustrated by various price rise scenarios, will require specific measures to improve the
productivity of cocoa trees, processing and handling of cocoa beans, production and the service
delivery capacity of MAL. Improving productivity will require support to Research and Development
(R&D) and husbandry provided to smallholders through the combined efforts of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAL), the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Labour and Immigration
(MCILI) and exporters; improving processing and handling will require support to infrastructure and
regulation provided to processors and traders through the combined efforts of the MAL, MCILI,
Commodities Export Marketing Authority (CEMA) and exporters; improving production will require
support to price and marketing provided to exporters through combined efforts of MAL, MCILI and
exporters. Also, public and private partnerships between government, development partners and
private sector enterprises including domestic and international stakeholders will offer opportunities
for improving services to the cocoa industry.




                                                   3
                                        1. INTRODUCTION
The Solomon Islands Rural Development Project (SIRDP) is a US$37 million program of the
Solomon Islands Government supported by the World Bank, the Australian Aid Programme, the
European Union and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The Solomon
Islands Ministry of Development Planning and Aid Coordination (MDPAC) is implementing the
program. Launched in 2008, the program is now implemented in the 8 provinces of Choiseul,
Western, Isabel, Central, Guadalcanal, Malaita, Makira and Temotu. The development objective of
SIRDP is to increase access of rural households to high priority, small-scale economic and social
infrastructure, agriculture and financial services. The Program comprises four components: local
infrastructure and service delivery; improved agriculture services; rural business development; and
program management. SIRDP is scheduled to end in 2015 and preparations are being made for the
design of a follow-on phase.

It is proposed to focus agriculture sector interventions, in the follow-on phase, on high value products
in domestic and export markets, specifically on cocoa and coconut products (e.g. copra and oil) in the
case of the latter.

This focus is broadly in line with and supported by key Solomon Island Government (SIG) strategies
and policies including: the Solomon Islands National Development Strategy (NDS) 2011-2020 which
stresses the need to create an enabling environment for private sector led growth in general and
promoting commercial export crops including cocoa in particular; the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAL) Corporate Plan 2011-2014 which strives to further develop the Ministry as the
premier provider of information, research, extension, education, regulatory and other services to
improve the agriculture sector; and the Solomon Islands Cocoa Industry Policy and Strategies
(SICIPS) 2012-2020 which call upon support from foreign investors and development partners to
support rural families, industry stakeholders and the nation.

The cocoa industry is a significant contributor to smallholder livelihoods and national export earnings.
There are more than 24,000 smallholders comprising around 133,000 family members or 26% percent
of the Solomon Island population engaged in cocoa production. Cocoa growers are concentrated
mainly in Guadalcanal, Malaita and Makira provinces but also in Western and Choiseul and in fewer
numbers in other provinces. Current estimates suggest smallholders (and processors) living and
working in rural areas capture 77% of gross margins from cocoa. Cocoa is also an important source of
earnings for the national economy with total gross margins expected to reach Solomon Islands Dollar
(SBD) 55 million in 2013 and potentially almost doubling to around SBD 90 million by 2020, based
on forecasted price increases, due to the combined effects of an estimated production deficit and
increase in demand.

There have been numerous endeavours to promote the export of cocoa through Government and
donor partner initiatives in Solomon Islands. More recently, in a potentially significant boost to the
cocoa industry, Mondelez International (owner of Cadbury and other global brands), has expressed an
interest in purchasing around 10,000 metric tons of cocoa from the Solomon Islands – c.f. current
cocoa production of around 4,500 metric tons in 2012 but which reached around 6,500 metric ton in
2011. Mondelez’s interest in cocoa also provides an opportunity for building mutually beneficial
partnerships with producers, government and non-government organizations, traders and buyers.
Mondelez has launched its “Cocoa Life” program, which is dedicated to building partnerships focused
around farmers and communities, including youth and women, their livelihoods and the environment.



                                                   4
The objective of this value chain analysis is to identify the most promising opportunities for
increasing the contribution that the sale of cocoa can make to rural livelihoods and the national
economy. The analysis aims to map cocoa value chains, focused on elaborating practical pathways to
improving production and marketing and where feasible developing partnerships between domestic,
international and other stakeholders. The results of the analysis reported here will feed into the design
of agriculture sector interventions within the follow-on SIRDP program.

The report comprises 5 sections: Section 2 describes Solomon Islands Government’s (SIG) national
and sector policies and strategies, the state of infrastructure and transport, relevant institution and
regulatory frameworks, and activities of development partners involved in the cocoa industry; Section
3 provides an overview of global and domestic trends in prices, production and productivity of cocoa
beans; Section 4 provides an overview of the cocoa value chain and a snapshot of costs, revenues and
gross margins accruing to smallholders, processors, traders and exporters at each stage of the value
chain; Section 5 provides an overview of key challenges and opportunities in development of the
Solomon Islands cocoa value chain; and Section 6 concludes the main findings of the value chain
analysis and makes recommendations for future interventions in the cocoa industry.

                                  2. POLICIES AND STRATEGIES
This section describes SIG’s national and sector policies and strategies, the state of infrastructure and
transport, relevant institution and regulatory frameworks activities of development partners involved
in the cocoa industry

                              2.1 Economic and National Development
The Solomon Islands economy is continuing to recover from a prolonged period of sharp contraction
following civil tensions during the late 1990s and early 2000s. The average Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) growth rate for the period 2003-2013 was 2.9%; expected to be around 2.5% in 2013; and
forecast to be more than 4% in 2014.

National development policies and strategies aimed at promoting development are elaborated in
several key documents including the National Development Strategy (NDS) 2011-2020. The NDS
comprises 8 objectives of which Objective 5 is especially relevant to developments of the cocoa
sector: “Increase economic growth and equitably distribute income and employment benefits ”, which
includes creating an enabling environment for private sector led growth and promoting commercial
export crops including cocoa.

                    2.2 Agriculture Sector and Cocoa Industry Development
Agriculture plays an important role in the Solomon Islands: 75% of the population are engaged in
agriculture compared with 20% in services and 5% in industry (fishing, mining and timber); and 52%
of GDP is derived from agriculture compared with 39% from services and 9% from industry. The
main export earnings in the agriculture sector are from commodities including cocoa, palm oil and
coconuts (copra and oil) – around 17% of total export earnings come from a combination of cocoa
and copra.

Sector development policies and strategies aimed at promoting agriculture development in the
Solomon Islands is elaborated in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAL) Corporate Plan
2011-2014. The MAL Corporate Plan has as its vision “to promote, improve and lead agriculture
development in the Solomon Islands to a profitable and environmentally sustainable future by being
the premier provider of information, research, extension, education, regulatory and other services to


                                                   5
improve the agriculture sector.” The MAL Corporate Plan comprises 10 key outcome areas (KOA) of
which the following 6 are especially relevant to developments in the cocoa sector: KOA 1 poverty
alleviation, enhanced food security and rural livelihood; KOA 2 sustainable growth and economic
development; KOA 5 investment in agriculture research and development; KOA 7 increase
agriculture investments; KOA 8 enabling environment for growth and development; KOA 9 strategic
strengthening of alliances for national, regional and international cooperation.

Aligned with the NDS and the MAL Corporate Plan is the Solomon Islands Cocoa Industry Policy
and Strategies (SICIPS) 2012-2020. This cocoa sector specific strategy has as its mission “to guide
and support the development of the Solomon Islands cocoa industry to realize its full potential
through the active participation of Solomon Islanders with support from foreign investors and
Development Partners that brings maximum benefits to rural families, all industry stakeholders and
the nation”. The SICIPS has the following 10 policy directives:

   National cocoa industry governance and coordination framework – SIG will establish a Cocoa
    Industry Governance and Coordination Framework and provide adequate resources, strengthen
    strategic planning, coordination and monitoring, and provide an enabling environment to support
    its implementation;
   Land-use and environmental Sustainability – SIG, Development Partners, resource owners and
    stakeholders of the Solomon Islands and investors shall work in partnership to ensure land-use
    planning and environmental management and social considerations as part of the strategies and
    actions to develop land for cocoa;
   Production – SIG and national stakeholders shall ensure that production of cocoa is increased to
    20,000 Metric tons by 2020, through increasing productivity by tree, total area planted and use of
    improved genetic material;
   Processing and storage – this will involve improving the capacity of the Commodities Export
    Marketing Authority (CEMA) (see below) to conduct tests and analysis on cocoa products to
    determine whether they meet specified standards;
   Marketing – this will include maintaining an effective, efficient and regulated cocoa marketing
    system, ensuring all traders and exporters of wet and dry cocoa beans are supported to be
    compliant with CEMA and Provincial Government regulations, support given to infrastructure
    and updated market information made available to all stakeholders;
   Extension and training – SIG shall establish partnerships with the private sector, communities
    and farmers to maintain and strengthen extension and training services for the cocoa industry;
   Crop protection – SIG shall strengthen the capacity of the Solomon Islands Agriculture
    Quarantine Service (SIAQS) to provide effective border and surveillance and protection and to
    monitor, control and prevent inter-island movement of cocoa pests and diseases;
   Down-stream processing and value-adding – SIG and private sector shall identify and implement
    investment strategies and initiatives to achieve down-stream processing and value adding to
    Solomon Islands cocoa beans;
   Resource mobilization and financial services – SIG, private sector partners and national
    institutions shall engage effectively with Development Partners and financing institutions to
    mobilize and secure adequate financial and technical services; and
   Monitoring and evaluation.

Also, MAL has developed the National Cocoa Industry Development (NCID) 2014 – 2020 program
which is aimed at the aforementioned NDS Objective 5 and achieving an ambitious target of 20,000


                                                  6
Metric tons of production by 2020 as well as addressing several of the other key policy directives in
the SICIPS. The main outputs of the NCID are a national cocoa participatory action research (PAR)
program comprising Integrated Pest and Disease Management (IPDM) conducted for cocoa farmers;
improved planting material and new technologies made available to farmers; protection of the cocoa
industry from exotic pests and diseases; establishment of the Cocoa Secretariat; and establishment of
a monitoring and evaluation system. It is envisaged that the program will be financed by SIG and co-
financed by beneficiaries and the private sector.

                                   2.3 Infrastructure and Transport
In general, public infrastructure (roads, bridges, electricity, telecommunications; wharves) are poorly
developed in the Solomon Islands with much of that which was destroyed during the tensions having
not been repaired or replaced. There are some 1,500 kilometres of roads of which only around 50
kilometres are paved. Roads are sparse, reaching less than a quarter of communities, with the rest
reliant on sea transport. Many bridges are in need of repair and some are impassable. Less than 20%
of the total population has access to electricity and grid supply extends only a few kilometres outside
of the capital Honiara. Telecommunications, especially mobile communications, are developing
rapidly but remain expensive. There are two operational export ports in the Solomon Islands at
Honiara on Guadalcanal and Noro on Western Province, both of which have basic container handling
facilities. A third export port used to operate at Yandina in the Russell Islands (Central Province) but
has fallen into disuse following the closure of the RIPEL plantation. There are regular inter-island
shipping services that transport agricultural and other commodities to and from the main ports and
other destinations within the Solomon Islands.

There are no dedicated cocoa industry infrastructure or transport services. At the two main ports
cocoa is unloaded by hand and those buying and selling cocoa beans – processors, traders and
exporters – rely almost exclusively on the regular inter-island shipping services and, locally, other sea
and road transport services. Outside of the two main ports, cocoa is transported by road or sea to
collection points in the main provincial centres or to pick-up points along the coasts often off beaches,
stored in private facilities, before being transported by regular, or in some instances private, shipping
services to the port of Honiara. In the 1980s, CEMA developed an extensive network of buying
centres (around 50 spread throughout 8 provinces) including storage facilities connected to private
shipping services, for copra and coconut oil, although these fell into disuse following a fall in coconut
prices and the ethnic tensions. These are currently not functional although at least one has been taken
over by a cocoa exporter and others are being used for other purposes.

Domestic shipping services also tend to price according to the value of the commodity so that higher
value commodities regardless of size and weight pay a higher transport price. For instance the average
price of an 80 Kg bag of cocoa shipped to Honiara is between SBD 60-80 compared with between
SBD 35-60 for copra, depending on its origin.

                           2.4 Institutional and Regulatory Framework
The institutional frameworks governing the cocoa industry are being elaborated in accordance with
the national cocoa industry governance and coordination framework policy directive of the SICIPS,
which includes the following strategies: (i) formalize establishment of the National Cocoa Steering
Committee (NCSC) with appropriate Terms of Reference (ToR); (ii) establish National Cocoa
Secretariat (NCS) and support with adequate resources; (iii) establish provincial cocoa coordination
committees with appropriate ToR; (iv) review the CEMA Act 1984 (see below) and associated
regulations and develop new regulations pertaining to investments in the cocoa industry; (v)


                                                   7
strengthen the capacity of cocoa exporters and producers associations to provide services to farmers;
(vi) convene a National Cocoa Summit every two years to evaluate progress in implementation of the
cocoa policy and strategy; (vii) establish international linkages with research institutes, International
Cocoa Organization (ICCO), organic certification and fair trade organizations; (viii) establish and
strengthen Development Partner links to support the cocoa industry; and (ix) support formation and
management of cocoa growers associations.

Several of the strategies have been, or are in the process of being implemented, in particular, through
underpinning support given to the NCSC and with the development and publication of several new
regulations under the CEMA Act pertaining to investments in the cocoa sector.

The ToR for the NCSC, along with a Provincial Cocoa Coordinating Committee (PCCC) and a NCS,
has been developed as part of the SICIPS. The purpose of the NCSC is to provide the forum to
stimulate development of the cocoa industry in Solomon Islands and provide a framework through
which the industry can operate. An inaugural meeting was held in June 2012, which bought together a
broad representation of stakeholders including representatives from SIG, CEMA, Donor Partners and
the private sector, at which the roles and functions of the NCSC were endorsed; the NCSC has been
formalized through cabinet endorsement. Also, the SICIPS has developed the outline of a National
Cocoa Summit to be convened every two years beginning 2014 as a forum for industry stakeholders
to discuss and share ideas on issues, challenges and opportunities in the cocoa industry and to take
stock of the progress in implementation of the SICIPS. In the interim, Pacific Horticultural and
Agricultural Market Access (PHAMA) (see Section 2.5) has been providing support to NCSS with the
establishment of a Cocoa Market Access Industry Working Group (IWG) for cocoa whose purpose is
to provide an industry specific forum for addressing quality and international market access issues
affecting Solomon Islands cocoa exports.

The regulatory framework governing the cocoa industry comes under CEMA, based on the CEMA
Act 1984, under the authority of the Minister/y of Commerce, Industry, Labour and Immigration
(MCILI), specified in Cocoa Regulations 1986 and the Cocoa (Amended) Regulations 2013.1
CEMA’s authority covers licencing, inspection and grading and management of exporters, traders and
processers in the cocoa industry. CEMA has the authority to issue, renew and revoke licences to
exporters and in cooperation with MAL and the relevant Provincial Government to register cocoa
processing units and licence wet and dry bean traders; and in particular MAL extension officers
through the Chief Field Officers in their respective provinces are responsible for enforcing the design
and operational standards of trader storage facilities and processing units (see Section 4.1 for more
specific details on the processor registration and trader licence arrangements).

In the case of inspection and grading, in particular, CEMA is ultimately responsible for controlling
the quality of cocoa beans exported from the Solomon Islands. In this capacity the Chief Inspector of
CEMA has the authority to inspect storage premises to ensure they comply with specified
requirements (e.g. measures are taken to prevent infestation of pests, bags are stacked to ensure
sufficient passage, disinfestation by fumigation is carried out as required and contamination is
prevented) and sampling beans either prior to or after bagging by conducting a “cut -test” of selected
sample beans and a count of defective beans (i.e. mouldy, slaty, insect damaged, germinated or flat);



1
    Solomon Island Gazette No.27 19 September 1986; and Solomon Island Gazette No.67 29 August 2013.


                                                        8
and for those consignments of beans meeting the appropriate quality standard, they are labelled and
sealed and CEMA issues an export certificate.

                                       2.5 Development Partners
Development partners have supported a number of recent cocoa industry initiatives, targeted directly
or indirectly at the cocoa industry, several of which have responded and in some instances informed
the policy directives outlined in the SICIPS.

The development objective of the Solomon Islands Rural Development Program (SIRDP) is to
increase access of rural households to high priority, small-scale economic and social infrastructure,
agriculture and financial services. The three main components of the Program are local infrastructure
and delivery services, improved agriculture services and rural business development. Apart from
general support provided by MAL extension officers especially to cocoa bean processors and traders
under the improved agriculture services component, the Supplemental Equity Facility (SEF) under the
rural business development component provided equity to match borrower equity and commercial
bank loans. It is estimated that cocoa processors, traders and or exporters received around half of the
20 SEF grants that went to the agriculture sector. The SEF ended in 2012 following full disbursement
of available funds and the Program is scheduled to close in 2015.

In addition to support through SIRDP, Australia has, and continues to provide significant support to
the cocoa industry through a number of initiatives, including the Cocoa Livelihoods Improvement
Project (CLIP) 2009-2012, PHAMA, the Pacific Agriculture and Rural Development Initiative
(PARDI), as well as funding a cocoa adviser to provide technical assistance to Research and
Development (R&D) in MAL.

CLIP aimed to increase sustainable rural income for those involved in cocoa enterprises by increasing
the volume of improved quality cocoa and increasing access to more competitive markets, specifically
increasing the volume of high quality cocoa beans for export from 4,800 Metric tons in 2009 to
10,000 Metric tons by 2014 and reducing quality and price differentials between Solomon Island
cocoa and PNG cocoa being sold into the South-East Asian markets. CLIP conducted a range of
training, hardware provision, information gathering and other activities, involving the various
stakeholders in the cocoa value chain. PARDI aims to create sustainable livelihood development
outcomes of the South Pacific forestry, fisheries and crop-based sectors; and in the Solomon Islands
PARDI is focusing on niche marketing of quality cocoa to specialty chocolate manufactures.

PHAMA and support to R&D are two important initiatives as they provide on-going support that
responds to and has informed the policy directives outlined in the SICIPS and other key industry
related documents. PHAMA aims to provide practical and targeted assistance to help Pacific Island
Countries (PICs) manage the regulatory aspects associated with exporting primary products. In the
Solomon Islands support to the cocoa sector aims to improve returns from cocoa exports by
improving quality and supporting traceability and certification systems that add market value.
PHAMA is supporting the cocoa industry in the Solomon Islands through several priority initiatives2:
as noted above PHAMA has established a Cocoa Market Access IWG to address quality and

2
  PHAMA has facilitated the IWG’s identification of other activities including, in order of priority: support for
strengthening quality assurance systems; support development of processing quality guidelines and improve industry
awareness; support industry focus on access to higher value markets; support for value adding activities to assist in
marketing; and support development of traceability and certification systems that add market value.



                                                         9
international market access issues affecting Solomon Islands cocoa exports which includes
coordinating and providing technical support to quarterly meetings as well as meeting facilities and
reporting; and PHAMA is facilitating the establishment of a functional laboratory in CEMA which
can test to recognised international standards on cocoa quality, as well as providing technical,
procedural and management support to operate the facility.

The R&D program is housed in the Tree Crops Section of the Agriculture Research Department
within MAL and is principally aimed at increasing yields from a current low of around 340 Kg/ha by
introducing improved tree management (IPDM) and then developing new genetic materials. The
bulk of this work comprises a three-stage Participatory Action Programme (PAR) based on IPDM
principles: the first stage (years 1-3) organises smallholders into groups of 12 to conduct pruning on 1
ha (1,000 cocoa trees) for which they are paid SBD 750/year over three years, but only after all 12
smallholders complete pruning of all 12 hectares or 12,000 trees each year. The second stage (3-7
years) identifies and removes of 80% of poor genetic materials and replacing these with 20% elite
local materials through grafting. The program is also field-testing improved hybrid seeds which have
been introduced from Papua New Guinea (PNG). The first stage has begun implementation at two
sites in Guadalcanal and there are plans to roll this out to a total of 12 sites in each of the 8 provinces
(i.e. 96 sites).

                      3. DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
This section provides an overview of global and domestic trends in prices, production and
productivity of cocoa beans.

                                        3.1 Global Trends
World production and price of cocoa have similarly fluctuated over the last decade to 2013 - the
average annual world prices and productions 2004 – 2013 are shown in Figure 3.1.

            Figure 3.1 Average annual world cocoa productions and prices 2004-2013




                                       Source: ICCO and FAOSTAT

Production averaged 4.1 million metric tons for the period, rising from over 4.0 million metric tons in
2004, production peaked at just over 4.3 million metric tones in 2006 before decreasing to below 4.0
million metric tons in 2007 and rising to just over 4.6 million metric tons in 2011. Cocoa production




                                                    10
was just over 4.0 million metric tons in 2012 and the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO)
forecasts cocoa production in 2013 will be around 3.9 million metric tons.3

Price averaged US$ 2,100/Metric ton for the period, rising from several years of oscillating around
US$ 1,500/Metric ton, prices rose sharply in 2007 to peak at over US$ 3,100/Metric ton in 2010
before decreasing to below US$ 2,500/Metric ton and remaining flat in 2012 and 2013. The latest
ICCO figures show a steady rise in world cocoa prices during 2013 rising from a low of US$ 2,154 in
the first quarter of 2013 through to US$ 2,773 in December 2013.4 The average annual world cocoa
prices 2005 – 2013 are shown in Figure 3.2.5

The latest ICCO figures estimate a production deficit of 160,000 metric tons, driven mainly by an
increase in demand (mainly from the emerging economies of Asia rather than Europe) rather than a
shortfall in supply, leading to recent speculation that prices could rise to in excess of US$
3,000/Metric ton in 2013/14.6

The bulk of the world’s cocoa production comes from Africa (72% forecast in 2012/13) mainly from
the world’s largest producer Côte d'Ivoire (1,480,000 Metric tons) with lesser amounts coming from
Latin America (15% forecast in 2012/13) and Asia and Oceania (13% forecast in 2012/13). In the
latter region Indonesia is the largest producer (430,000 Metric tons forecast in 2012/13) followed by
Papua New Guinea (45,000 Metric tons forecast in 2012/13).7 This compares with significantly small
amounts of cocoa produced in the Solomon Islands, which was 4,500 Metric tons in 2012, having
reached a peak of just over 6,000 Metric tons in 2011.

                                    3.2 Domestic Trends
There are a number of domestic price, production and productivity features that characterize the
Solomon Islands cocoa market.8

Price trends in the Solomon Islands relate to world price trends.9 Prices averaged US$ 2,094 over the
period, rising from several years of oscillating around US$ 1,200/Metric ton (SBD 8,400/Metric ton),
Solomon Island prices rose sharply in 2007 to peak at just over US$ 3,000/Metric ton (SBD
21,000/Metric ton) in 2010 before decreasing to around US$ 2,100/Metric ton (SBD 14,700/Metric
ton) and remaining flat through 2012 and 2013; the October 2013 Monthly Economic Bulletin of the
Central Bank of Solomon Islands reported a rise in cocoa prices to a high of US$ 2,334 (SBD 16,338)
in September 2013. The average annual world and Solomon Islands prices 2005 –2013 are shown in
Figure 3.2.


3
  International Cocoa Organization, Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa Statistics, Vol. XXXIX - No. 3 - Cocoa year
2012/2013.
4
    Ibid.
5
  All world prices are sourced from the International Cocoa Organization; and are based on monthly average
quotations of the New York Stock Exchange, Futures and Options Exchange (LIFFE) and ICE Futures U.S.
6
    The Wall Street Journal “Cocoa prices climb but not enough to boost production, Industry says”. October 16 2013.
7
  International Cocoa Organization, Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa Statistics, Vol. XXXIX - No. 3 - Cocoa year
2012/2013.
8
    All domestic prices are sourced from CEMA; and based on an average 10 year exchange rate of US$ 1 = SBD 7.
9
    Correlation coefficient = 0.99.



                                                           11
                  Figure 3.2 Average annual world and Solomon Islands prices 2005-2013




                                                 Source: IOCC and CEMA

The average annual price difference between world “London Terminal Commodity Market” (LTCM)
prices and Solomon Island “free on board” (FoB) prices paid to exporters (see Section 4.1) for the
period 2005 to 2013 is US$ 240/Metric ton (SBD 1,680/Metric ton) ranging between US$ 111/Metric
ton (SBD 778/Metric ton) and US$ 370/Metric ton (SBD 2,584/Metric ton). There are several main
reasons given for the price differential, relating to quality and contractual terms surrounding the
processing and exporting of cocoa beans respectively.10

In the case of quality data provided by the Malaysian Cocoa Board on its quality assessment of the
Solomon Islands cocoa reveals beans tend to be “smoke off-flavour” and in some way “defective”.11
The smoke-off flavour of Solomon Island cocoa beans is due to a combination of poor quality of
processing (fermenter and drier) facilities and the lack of skills and equipment necessary to
adequately ferment wet beans and test the quality of dry beans. Also, poor handling and storage can
cause for instance beans to be defective (e.g. broken, salty, mouldy, insect invested), which impacts
on bean quality and price, especially the buying price of beans paid by exporters. In the case of
contractual terms, exporters sell cocoa beans either through an international broker or directly to an
international manufacturer. In the case of brokers they generally advance pre-finance to exporters
based on an agreed volume. Brokers do so to cover their own costs of finance and reduce exposure to
risk.

Changes in production are statistically related to changes in price.12 Following price trends,
production averaged 4,855 Metric tons over the period, rising from less than 4,000 Metric tons in
2006, peaking in 2011 at over 6,000 Metric tons, and falling to 4,500 metric tons in 2012. CEMA
predicts production is expected to reach around 5,000 Metric tons in 2013. The average annual cocoa
prices and production 2005 – 2013 for the Solomon Island are shown in Figure 3.3.13




10
     A fuller explanation of these issues and the various causes is provided in Section 4.1
11
   Vinning, G. and Ramos, A. (2010a) Malaysian cocoa industry: a Solomon Islands’ perspective. Agriculture
Livelihoods Program Occasional Note – Marketing: 01/10 August.
12
     Correlation coefficient = 0.69.
13
  There is no data available for cocoa production in the Solomon Islands. Cocoa export figures are used as a surrogate
for production, which are considered adequate as all production is exported.



                                                              12
          Figure 3.3 Average annual Solomon Islands cocoa prices and production 2005-2013




                                                       Source: CEMA

Producers tend to be supply price inelastic, that is, as price increases production increases albeit at a
slower rate. For the period 2005 to 2013 annual prices increased by, on average, 13% and annual
production increased, on average, by 5%, which implies a price elasticity of supply of 0.4% (i.e. a
10% increase in prices results in 4% increase in production). Excluding the post tension years, 2005-
2007, for the period 2008 – 2013 annual prices increased by, on average, 13% and annual production
increased, on average, by 5%, which implies a price elasticity of 0.3% (i.e. a 10% increase in prices
results in a 3% increase in production). This pattern approximates research findings on cocoa price
elasticity of supply, which estimates an elasticity of between 0.4% and 0.8% (i.e. a 10% increase in
prices results in between a 5% and 8% increase in production).14

Changes in wet, dry and export bean prices are transferable, that is, as export prices increase or
decrease there is a more or less proportional change in the price of wet beans and dry beans.15 For dry
and export beans the average monthly dry and export bean prices for 2011 and 2012 are shown in
Figure 3.4.
                   Figure 3.4 Monthly dry and export bean prices 2011 and 2012




                                                       Source: CEMA

There is a strong statistical relationship between dry and export bean prices both as prices increase in
2011 and decrease in 2012.16 The implications are that an increase or decrease in the prices paid for

14
 Frankel, J. (1974) “Cocoa in Ghana: The cocoa farmers, the cocoa marketing board and the elasticity of supply”,
MIT Department of Economics, University of California.
15
  Export prices refer to the contractual FoB prices received by exporters in the Solomon Islands – see Section 4.1
below for a fuller explanation.
16
     Correlation coefficient = 0.96 in 2011 as prices are decreasing and 0.93 in the 2012 as prices are increasing.


                                                              13
dry beans are transferred in the form of an increase or decrease in the prices paid for wet beans. In
2011 the average difference between monthly dry and export bean prices is 3.1/Kg; and in 2012 the
average difference between monthly dry and export bean prices is 3.3/Kg.

For wet and dry beans the average monthly wet and dry bean prices for 2011 and 2012 are shown in
Figure 3.5.
                  Figure 3.5 Monthly wet and dry bean prices 2011 and 2012




                                                       Source: CEMA

There is a stronger statistical relationship between wet and dry bean prices as prices decrease in 2011
compared with when prices increase in 2012.17 The implications are that a decrease in the price paid
for dry beans is transferred in the form of a larger decrease in the price paid for wet beans compared
with an increase in the price paid for dry and wet beans. In 2011 the average difference between wet
and dry bean prices is SBD 11/Kg; and in 2012 the average difference between wet and dry bean
prices is SBD 8/Kg.

There are three major producing provinces in the Solomon Islands – Guadalcanal, Malaita and Makira
– have produced on average around 95% of total production over the last decade to 2012. The
Solomon Islands cocoa production by province for 2003-2012 is shown in Figure 3.6.

                            Table 3.6 Solomon Islands cocoa production 2003-2012




                                                       Source: CEMA

Provincial production trends mirror trends in total production in the Solomon Islands, rising to a peak
in 2011 before falling sharply; and while data for 2013 is not presently available, total and hence

17
     Correlation coefficient = 0.95 in 2011 as prices are decreasing and 0.65 in the 2012 as prices are increasing.



                                                              14
provincial, production is expected to increase consistent with the trend shown in Figure 3.3

In terms of expanding production by area there is generally considered to be limited potential in the
largest cocoa producing provinces of Guadalcanal and Malaita due to land availability in both
provinces as well as soil suitability in Malaita; and increases in production are expected to come
mainly from Makira with proportionately smaller increases coming from the other provinces.

There has been a decline in yields in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea caused by Black Pod disease
and more recently the devastating effect of Cocoa Pod Borer (CPB) and in Côte d'Ivoire following
years of political turmoil. Yields have remained consistent albeit low in Ghana and Solomon Islands.
In 2011 yields ranged between around 300 and 550 Kg/ha and averaged around 550 Kg/ha for the
largest cocoa producing countries – Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana and Indonesia; and current estimated yields
in the Solomon Islands are around 340 Kg/ha. The average annual yields for the three largest cocoa
producing countries along with Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands for 2001 to 2011 are
shown in Figure 3.7.

                Figure 3.7 Average annual yields for selected countries 2001-2011




                                          Source: FAOSTAT
In terms of expanding production by yields there is considered to be considerable potential in the
Solomon Islands. The R&D program aimed at increasing yields from a current low of around 340
Kg/ha, by introducing and developing new genetic materials, anticipates a doubling or even tripling of
yields, to around 1,000 Kg/ha over 3-7 years. However this is considered to be an overly ambitious
target that would be more reasonably set at around the 550 Kg/ha mark, which is the average yield for
the three largest cocoa producing countries over the decade to 2011, to be achieved by 2020.

Finally, assuming a high-side price elasticity of supply of 0.8 and cumulative price increases of 10%,
20% and 30%, it is forecast that annual production of 5,000 Metric tons in 2013 would reach around
8,500 Metric tons, 14,100 Metric tons and 22,500 Metric tons by 2020 respectively. Price increases of
10% and 20% would fall short while the latter would achieve the NCIS aim of achieving 20,000
Metric tons by 2020. However, as with productivity, this is considered to be an overly ambitious
target that would be more reasonably set at around 10,000 Metric tons mark, which accounts for a
price increase of around 15% to be achieved by 2020.

                                4. VALUE CHAIN ANALYSIS
This section provides an overview of the cocoa value chain and a snapshot of costs, revenues and
gross margins accruing to smallholders, processors, traders and exporters at each stage of the value
chain.


                                                  15
                                            4.1 Overview
A simplified overview of the Solomon Islands cocoa value chain, depicting functions, export market
channels and support services to the main stakeholders, is presented in Figure 4.1.

                              Figure 4.1: Solomon Island Cocoa Value Chain
                                             Export Market Channel
      Functions                                                                               Support Services
                                    International                   International
        IMPORTER                       Brokers                      Manufacturers



                                                     Commercial
        EXPORTER                                      Exporters



                                                     Dry Bean                                        Registration
         TRADER                                      Traders                                          Licencing


                                                                                                       Finance
                                                     Fermenter
       PROCESSOR                                       Drier
                                                                                                     Technical
                                                                                                     Assistance
                                                                                                       Inputs
                                                Smallholder 1 – 3 ha.
        PRODUCER                                   family farms



                                                Wholesale and Retail
     INPUT SUPPLIER                                  Outlets



There are six functional components of the supply chain, comprising input suppliers, producers or
smallholders, processors, traders, exporters and importers, and each relate to the export market
channel and support services.18 These along with the main challenges and general directions for
improvement at each stage of the value chain are presented for each of the main stakeholders.

Input Suppliers
Input suppliers comprise wholesale and retail outlets, scattered throughout the country, mostly located
in the provincial capitals, providing mainly basic tools to farmers (e.g. pruning equipment, spades,
bush knives, axes) for tree maintenance and processors for fermenting and drying (e.g. wood fuelled
18
   For the purposes of the value chain analysis stakeholders are functionally separated yet in actuality they tend to be
grouped around a complexity of arrangements: smallholders sometimes ferment and dry their own beans and they
may also source additional wet beans from others and will sell dry beans to a trader and or an exporter; processors
may only ferment and dry and similarly sell dry beans to a trader and or an exporter; traders may be smallholders and
processors, neither or one or the other, and may trade in either or both wet and or dry beans; and exporters will be
involved in at least one and possibly most activities, including at least trading and processing, and sometimes other
related or unrelated activities such as shipping and input supply services – selected exporter profiles presented in
Annex II.


                                                          16
drying kilns, chimney flues, nettings and shovels). To date there are few input suppliers of agro-
chemicals although this will likely change should fertilizers be required to sustain high yielding trees
or insecticides be needed to contain an outbreak of disease such as Cocoa Pod Borer.

Smallholders
Smallholders include those with access to 1-3 hectares containing less than 3,000 trees, medium-sized
holdings with access to 3-10 hectares containing 3,000 – 10,000 trees and plantations of 10 hectares
containing 10,000 trees. There are currently no plantations operational in the Solomon Islands. The
bulk of wet bean production comes from smallholders of whom there are estimated to be around
24,122 of which the majority (see Section 3.2) are located in the main cocoa producing provinces of
Guadalcanal, Makira and Malaita.19 Smallholders – based on an average family size of 5.5 members –
account for around 132,671 people or 26% of the total population of 515,870.20 Smallholders on 1-3
hectares harvest beans typically using only family rather than employed labour, bagging and selling
their wet beans to processors or processing their own wet beans combined with those bought from
other smallholders, bagging and selling their dry beans to traders.

The main challenge facing smallholders is the current low level of cocoa tree productivity. It is
estimated that yields are around 340 Kg/ha compared with a yield average of around 550 Kg/ha over
the last decade to 2011 for three largest cocoa producing countries, which in the case of the latter is
considered to be a realistically achievable target by 2020. Smallholders have received numerous
support services from exporters, donor-funded investment projects and MAL. Exporters have
provided materials such as second-hand bags and hand tools including pruning equipment and
seedlings; CLIP provided a range of cocoa husbandry services including hand tools (e.g.
wheelbarrows, ladders, pruning equipment and axes), Integrated Pest and Disease Management
(IDPM) and business literacy training; and MAL is at present initiating a PAR program using IDPM
principles and genetic improvement aimed at increasing yields. Future interventions in the cocoa
industry should target smallholders through support to MAL to implement the PAR program and
strengthening the delivery of cocoa husbandry services including the provision of hand tools, IDPM
and business literacy training.

Processors
Processors ferment and dry wet beans (commonly using rudimentary wood fired kilns constructed out
of discarded 200 litre fuel drums) sourced from their own smallholding and or bought from other
nearby smallholders, bagging and selling their dry beans to sell to traders. The exact number of
processors is unknown although anecdotal evidence suggests there are between 2,500 and 3,000
processing facilities, in various states of operation. There are no records as to the exact location of
processors however it is estimated that the majority are operating in and around the main cocoa
producing provinces of Guadalcanal, Makira and Malaita.

In accordance with the CEMA Act21 processors are required amongst other things to have an
approved standard processing unit to process (ferment and dry) cocoa beans and an approved standard
storage facility with the capacity to store dry beans, have attended a cocoa processing course and have
cocoa beans that meet the quality standards set by CEMA. CEMA, MAL and the appropriate

19
     Solomon Islands Population and Housing Census 2009. Solomon Islands National Statistics Office
20
     Household Income and Expenditure Survey (2005-06). Solomon Islands National Statistics Office
21
     Solomon Island Gazette NO.67 29 August 2013 – Seventh Schedule Regulation 17



                                                          17
Provincial Government are involved in registering the storage units and CEMA is responsible for
ensuring processors keep basic cocoa trading information to be provided at least to CEMA at agreed
periods. A registration fee is paid to the Provincial Government and deregistered in the event of
failing to meet approved standards. MAL extension officers through the Chief Field Officers in their
respective provinces are responsible for enforcing the design and operational standards of processing
units. These requirements were only enacted in August 2013 and little of any progress has been made
in terms of their practical implementation.

The main challenge facing processors is the current poor quality of cocoa bean processing. The
Malaysian Cocoa Board quality assessment of the Solomon Islands cocoa indicate beans tend to be
“smoke off-flavour”, which in part explains the US$ 240/Metric ton average annual price difference
for the decade to 2013 between Solomon Island (US$ 2,094) and world prices (US$ 2,334).
Processors have received numerous support services mainly from exporters and donor-funded
investment projects. Exporters provide, for instance, second-hand bags and hand tools as well as
advance payments for beans; CLIP provided technical assistance including building and construction
materials to assist with the re/construction and maintenance which kilns especially the improved
Kukum mini drier, support to three metal fabricators in Malaita, Mkiara and Honiara to roll steel
drying kilns pipes and make improved drier chimneys and cocoa processing and marketing courses
for cocoa processors (traders and exporters); and SIRDP provided financial assistance in the form of
matching equity through the SEF to a number of processors – of the 20 SEF grants that went to the
agriculture sector just under half went to either cocoa processors or traders. Future interventions in the
cocoa industry should target processors with support to meet infrastructure standards, including
processing units and storage facilities, and support to MAL and CEMA to enforce regulatory
standards.

Traders
Traders buy and sell dry (and wet) beans, buying from processors and selling to exporters, either
directly to their storage facilities in Honiara or indirectly through collection facilities. There are
estimated to be 750 wet and or dry bean buyers.22 As with processors there are no records as to the
exact location of traders however it is estimated that the majority are operating in and around the main
cocoa producing areas of Guadalcanal, Makira and Malaita.

In accordance with the CEMA Act23 wet bean traders for instance are required amongst other things
to have an approved standard storage facility with capacity to store dry cocoa beans, have attended
basic business and commodities trading course and maintain a provincial dry or wet bean trading
licence. CEMA, MAL and the appropriate Provincial Government are involved in licencing the
storage units and CEMA is responsible for ensuring bean traders keep basic cocoa trading information
to be provided at least to CEMA at agreed periods. Licences are renewed annually for which fees are
paid to the Provincial Government. As with processors MAL extension officers through the Chief
Field Officers in their respective provinces are responsible for enforcing the design and operational
standards of trader storage facilities. Also as with processors these requirements were only enacted in
August 2013 and little if any progress has been made in terms of their practical implementation.




22
     Monitoring and Impact Assessment Annual Report (2010) Cocoa Livelihoods Improvement Program
23
     Solomon Island Gazette NO.67 29 August 2013 – Seventh Schedule Regulation 17



                                                        18
The main challenge facing traders is the current poor quality of cocoa bean handling. The Malaysian
Cocoa Board quality assessment of the Solomon Islands cocoa indicate beans have been defective,
which along with the smoke-off flavour feature also in part explains the US$ 240/Metric ton average
annual price difference for the decade to 2013 between Solomon Island (US$ 2,094) and world prices
(US$ 2,334). Traders have received some support services mainly from exporters and donor-funded
investment projects. Exporters provide, for instance, second-hand bags as well as advance payments
for beans; CLIP provided a range of cocoa husbandry services similar to that provided to smallholders
including hand tools (e.g. wheelbarrows, ladders, pruning equipment and axes), IDPM and business
literacy training; and as with processors SIRDP provided financial assistance in the form of matching
equity through the SEF to a number of traders – of the 20 SEF grants that went to the agriculture
sector just under half went to either cocoa traders or processors. Future interventions in the cocoa
industry should target traders with support to meet infrastructure standards especially for on-site
storage facilities and for off-site infrastructure that improve handling such as small access roads,
wharves and storage facilities, and support to MAL and CEMA to enforce regulatory standards.

Exporters
Exporters buy and export dry beans, buying from traders or directly from smallholders and or
processors, sorting and bagging, containerizing the beans and selling to either international brokers or
manufacturers. There are 21 exporters licenced by CEMA under the CEMA Act,24 whom also have
responsibility for examining consignments of cocoa for quality and issuing an export certificate. The
bulk of exports are from 6 main exporters (accounting for around 70% of total exports) that export on
average 719 Metric tons each. The remaining 30% of total exports are from 10 minor exporters that
export on average 202 Metric tons each. There are 5 licensed exporters that are not currently
exporting. Exporters generally have storage facilities in Honiara, where the final bagging, sorting and
containerization take place, and in some cases they also use collection facilities in the main provincial
capitals of the main cocoa producing provinces of Guadalcanal, Makira and Malaita.

The contractual terms including the selling price depend on the buyers – around half of exporters sell
through one of several international brokers, several sell directly to an international manufacturer
while 4 exporters sell collectively as one entity directly to an international manufacturer under a
“periodic volume contract”. In general those selling to international brokers are usually pre-financed
based on an agreed volume, and sell at FoB prices set by the buyers at the time of sale; and those
selling to international manufacturers also sell at FoB prices negotiated on a contract-by-contract
basis. The latter arrangements are considered favourable – as anecdotal estimates indicate that prices
for exporters dealing with international manufacturers are between 10% and 20% higher than those
dealing through international brokers. Also FoB rather than “cost, insurance, freight” (CIF)
arrangements are the norm in the Solomon Islands because exporters are not able to negotiate with
importers and arrange shipping schedules and pay insurance due to their low volume and financial
constraints.

Exporters provide support services through the value chain to traders, processors and smallholders,
generally aimed at improving both the quantity and quality of beans they receive. Smallholders,
traders and processors receive second-hand bags, hand tools such as pruning equipment for
smallholders, materials for processors to assist with the re/construction and maintenance of kilns, cash
payments in advance of beans mainly to traders and processors and various forms of bonus payments
related to the quantity and quality of beans. Also, some exporters pay a discounted or penalty price
24
     Solomon Island Gazette NO.27 19 September 1986.



                                                       19
(around 10% below the market price) for poor quality dry beans coming from processors and traders,
especially for those with high moisture content that require additional drying and as a result incur an
additional cost.

An important feature of these exporter services relates to what are commonly referred to as “loyal”
smallholders, deemed so because they provide a regular supply of good quality beans but also because
they are connected through family or community or some other relationship - exporters estimate that
around 50-60% of smallholders from whom they receive beans are loyal. The presence of loyal
smallholders in the cocoa value chain is important in as far as it bolsters the exporters’ ability, by
providing services including price penalties, to affect the quantity and quality of the beans they
receive.

The main challenge facing exporters is the current lows levels of (quality) cocoa bean production. It is
estimated that production will reach around 5,000 Metric tons in 2013 down from a high of over
6,000 Metric tons in 2011, while a realistically achievable target is considered to be around 10,000
Metric tons by 2020. Exporters have received some albeit selective support mainly from donor-funded
projects and other initiatives. PHAMA has assisted on quality and international market access through
the establishment of a MWAG and facilitated establishment and operation of a cocoa quality testing
laboratory; the SIRDP provided financial assistance in the form of matching equity through the SEF
to at least one exporter; and CLIP provided dedicated technical assistance to the 4 exporters who
currently sell collectively as one entity directly to an international manufacturer under a “periodic
volume contract”. Future interventions in the cocoa industry should target exporters with support to
boost prices to improve production and strengthening the Cocoa Market Access IWG and its
relationship with other representative bodies including the NCSS.

                                          4.2 Methodology
The cocoa value chain analysis estimates of gross margins are based on costs and revenues accruing
to smallholders, processors, traders and exporters, based on the Solomon Islands cocoa value chain
depicted in Figure 4.1; and the gross margins are presented under four scenarios including today’s
price, low price, medium price and high price scenarios.

The gross margin estimates include the following costs and revenues from the harvesting, processing,
trading and exporting of beans:

Smallholder revenue from the sale of wet beans to processors and the labour costs of harvesting and
breaking cocoa pods and tree maintenance;

Processor revenue from the sale of dry beans to traders, the costs of buying wet beans from
smallholders, the labour costs of fermenting and drying and sorting and bagging, the costs of
transporting wet beans from smallholders to processors and other costs including wood fuel and bag
costs;

Trader revenue from the sale of dry beans to exporters, the costs of buying dry beans from processors,
the labour costs of handling and the costs of transporting dry beans from processors to exporters; and

Exporter revenue from the sale of dry beans to importers, the costs of buying dry beans from traders,
the labour costs of handling, the costs of transporting dry beans to and from the port in Honiara and
the exporter storage facilities and other costs including Solomon Islands Agriculture Quarantine


                                                  20
Service (SIAQS) fees for containerization and phyto-sanitary certification, Solomon Islands Ports
Authority (SIPA) handling fees, CEMA management fees, fumigation and customs documentation.

The today’s price, low price, medium price and high price scenarios include the following volumes
and prices of beans:

The today’s price scenario is based on a simple transfer price whereby a smallholder sells 2,244 kg of
wet beans25 (equivalent to 1,020 kg of dry beans based on a wet-to-dry conversion ratio of 2.2) to a
processor for SBD 3/kg, a processor sells 1,010 kg of dry beans (equivalent to 1,020 kg of dry beans
with a shrinkage rate of 1%) to a trader for SBD 13.50/kg; and a trader sells 990 kg of dry beans
(equivalent to 1,010 kg of dry beans with a shrinkage rate of 2%) to an exporter for SBD 16.50/kg
who in turn sells 960 kg of dry beans (equivalent to 990 kg of dry bean with a shrinkage rate of 3%)
to an international manufacturer or broker for SBD 19.50/kg26;

The low price scenario equivalent to today’s price plus 10% is based on a simple transfer price
whereby a smallholder sells 2,244 kg of wet beans to a processor for SBD 3.18/kg, a processor sells
1010 kg of dry beans to a trader for SBD 14.31/kg and a trader sells the dry beans to an exporter for
SBD17.49/kg who in turn sells 960 kg of dry beans to an international manufacturer or broker for
SBD 20.70/kg;

The medium price scenario equivalent to today’s price plus 20% is based on simple transfer price
whereby a smallholder sells 2,244 kg of wet beans to a processor for SBD 3.36/kg, a processor sells
990 kg of dry beans to a trader for SBD 15.12/kg and a trader sells the dry beans to an exporter for
SBD18.48/kg who in turn sells 960 kg of dry beans to an international manufacturer or broker for
SBD 21.80/kg; and

The high price scenario equivalent to today’s price plus 30% is based on a simple transfer price
whereby a smallholder sells 2,244 kg of wet beans to a processor for SBD 3.72/kg, a processor sells
990 kg of dry beans to a trader for SBD 16.74/kg and the trader sells the dry beans to an exporter for
SBD 20.46/kg who in turn sells 960 kg of dry beans to an international manufacturer or broker for
SBD 24.18/kg.27

The cocoa value chain analysis estimates of gross margins are presented in Table 1-3 in Annex I and
summarised below.

                                              4.3 Results
The revenues, costs and gross margins, under the today’s price, low price, medium price and high
price scenario, are summarised in Figure 4.2.




25
     Equivalent to approximately 3 ha at 340 kg/ha.
26
  The export price is based on an average of today’s prices received by exporters selling FoB to international brokers
and or international manufactures.
27
     The price rise scenarios are based on price and production estimates in Section 3.2.



                                                             21
                          Figure 4.2: Costs, revenues and gross margins




Table 4.1 presents a summary of the gross margins in SBD/Metric ton for today’s price, low price,
medium price and high price scenarios.

                           Table 4.1: Gross margins in SBD/Metric ton
                              Today                   Low              Medium             High
    Smallholder                2,221               2,894                3,568            4,241
    Processor                  6,192               6,882                7,529            8,092
    Trader                     1,556               1,826                2,129            2,399
    Exporter                     943               1,182                1,334            1,486
    Total                     10,912               12,784              14,560            16,218


There are significant benefits in terms of gross margins accruing to smallholders, processors, traders
and exporters, based on today’s bean prices. Smallholders’ capture 20% of the total gross margin
compared with processors (57%), traders (14%) and exporters (9%) – smallholders and processors
combined capture 77% of gross margins. The relatively large proportion of gross margins accruing to
processors is due to the value-adding involved in processing beans whereby wet beans are purchased
at SBD 3.0/kg, fermented, dried and bagged, and are sold as dry beans for SBD 13.50/kg.

There are significant benefits to smallholders in terms of their returns to labour: based on 150 days
labour/Metric ton and revenue of 6,192/Metric ton at today’s bean price the returns to labour are SBD
45/day, which compares favourably with a shadow price of labour of SBD 30/day.

There are also significant benefits in terms of gross margins accruing to smallholders, processors,
traders and exporters, based on an increase in bean prices, illustrated under the low, medium and high
price scenarios. A 30% increase in today’s price, for instance, results in smallholder gross margins


                                                 22
increase of 91%, processors gross margins increasing by 30%, traders gross margins increasing by
54% and exporters gross margins increasing by 58%. The relatively large increase in smallholder
gross margins is due to the cost of labour. As bean prices increase the smallholder cost of labour
remains constant at SBD 4,500/Metric ton, compared with processors, traders and exporters costs of
purchasing beans which increase with an increase in bean prices.

The significant benefits to smallholders from their returns to labour also increase with an increase in
bean prices: based on 150 days labour/Metric ton and revenue of SBD 7,045/Metric ton given a low
price, SBD 8,078/Metric ton given a medium price and SBD 8,752 given a high price, the returns to
labour are SBD 49, SBD 54 and SBD 58 respectively, which compares favourably with returns to
labour of SBD 45/day at today’s price and the shadow price of labour of SBD 30/day.

Table 4.2 presents the gross margins in SBD/Stakeholder for today’s price, low price, medium price
and high price scenarios. The stakeholder gross margin estimates are based on total production of
5,000 metric tons assuming 24,122 smallholders, an estimated 2,500 processors and 750 traders, and 6
main exporters.

                          Table 4.2: Gross margins in SBD/Stakeholder
                              Today                    Low             Medium              High
    Smallholder                  460                    600                  784              985
    Processor                 12,383               13,763                 15,962           18,125
    Trader                    10,375               12,174                 15,047           17,914
    Exporter                 785,773              984,970              1,178,503         1,387,255


There are considerable benefits although significant differences in the gross margins per stakeholder
across the price scenarios, ranging from less than SBD 500 through to almost SBD 1,000/smallholder,
over SBD 10,000 through to almost SBD 20,000/processor and trader and between around SBD
700,000 through to almost SBD 1.5 million/exporter accruing to exporters.

In actuality stakeholders in the cocoa value chain tend to be grouped around a diversity of
arrangements and so the gross margins are likely to vary considerably from stakeholder to
stakeholder. As a result the gross margins of a smallholder who is also a processor might be close to
SBD 13,000 at today’s price and rise to over SBD 19,000 given a high price; the gross margins of a
processor who is also a trader might be close to SBD 24,000 at today’s price and rise to over SBD
35,000 given a high price; and the gross margins of an exporter who is also a processor and a trader
might be over SBD 800,000 at today’s price and close to SBD 1.5 million given a high price.

Table 4.3 presents the total gross margins in SBD millions/Stakeholders for today’s price, low price,
medium price and high price scenarios.




                                                  23
                     Table 4.3: Total gross margins in SBD million/Stakeholders
                                    Today                          Low                  Medium               High
    Smallholder                     11.1                           14.5                   18.9                 23.8
    Processor                       31.0                           34.4                   39.9                 45.3
    Trader                             7.8                          9.1                   11.3                 13.4
    Exporter                           4.7                          5.9                     7.1                  8.3
    Total                           54.6                           63.9                    77.2                90.8


The total gross margin estimates are based on total production of 5,000 metric tons. At today’s price
total gross margins amount to almost SBD 55 million, increasing to over SBD 90 million given a high
price.

There are considerable benefits although significant differences in the total gross margins per
stakeholder across the price scenarios, ranging from over SBD 10 million through to over SBD 20
million/smallholders, over SBD 30 million through to more than SBD 45 million/processor, less than
SBD 10 million through to over SBD 10 million/trader and between around SBD 5 million and less
than SBD 10 million/exporters. However realising the sorts of potential benefits that accrue to
stakeholders in the cocoa value chain, as illustrated by various price rise scenarios, will require
specific improvements in the cocoa value chain.

                           5. CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES
This section provides an overview of main stakeholder challenges and opportunities for development
of the Solomon Islands cocoa value chain.

The main stakeholder challenges, impacts and opportunities for the Solomon Islands cocoa industry
are summarised in Table 5.1.

                  Figure 5.1 Main stakeholder challenges, impacts and opportunities

      Stakeholder Challenge                  Impact                                                Opportunity


     Smallholder Low productivity            Average annual yields 340 Kg/ha c.f. potential        R&D
                                             around 550 Kg/ha                                      Husbandry

     Processor    Poor processing
                                             Average annual Solomon Island price US$ 2,094         Infrastructure
                                             MT c.f. World price of US$ 2,334 MT                   Regulation
     Trader       Poor handling


     Exporter     Low production             Average annual production 4,855 Metric tons c.f.      Price
                                             potential around 10,000 Metric tons                   Marketing

     MAL          Service incapacity         Exporters provide selected services to mainly loyal   Partnership
                                             smallholders



Low productivity of cocoa trees is the main challenge facing smallholders. Average annual yields
over the last decade to 2011 are estimated to be around 340 Kg/ha compared with a potential target of
around 550 Kg/ha by 2020.



                                                              24
To improve productivity support should build on the ongoing R&D program aimed at increasing
yields by developing new genetic materials and build on past initiatives that have provided a range of
cocoa husbandry services including hand tools, IDPM and business literacy training. The R&D
program is an ambitious three-stage seven-year initiative that will begin with the first state of
implementation in two sites in Guadalcanal and rolled out to 96 sites in 8 provinces. This program
will need to be consolidated to include fewer sites (e.g. the main producing provinces of Guadalcanal,
Makira and Malaita) a clear pathway developed to ensure practical results contribute to strengthening
husbandry services. There is no systematic provision of husbandry services other than those being
provided by exporters to mainly “loyal” smallholders (see below).

Poor processing of cocoa beans is the main challenge facing processors. The occurrence of smoke off-
flavour cocoa beans in part explains the US$ 240/Metric ton average annual price difference for the
decade to 2013 between Solomon Island (US$ 2,094) and world prices (US$ 2,334).

To improve processing support should be given to processors to meet infrastructure standards
including processing units and storage facilities that builds on past initiatives, and to MAL and
CEMA to enforce regulatory standards. Infrastructure support, focused mainly on the re/construction
and maintenance of processing units by CLIP, is not currently being provided. In terms of regulation
SIRDP has supported MAL-wide capacity building, although the practicalities of extension officers
enforcing cocoa industry regulations specifically have not been elaborated in corporate plans nor
pursued in any way, and CEMA’s capacity to fulfil its regulatory responsibilities will be further
strengthened by PHAMA’s facilitating the establishment and operation of a cocoa quality testing
laboratory although this is yet to be completed.

Poor handling of cocoa beans is the main challenge facing traders. The occurrence of defective cocoa
beans also in part explains the US$ 240/Metric ton average annual price difference for the decade to
2013 between Solomon Island (US$ 2,094) and world prices (US$ 2,334).

To improve handling support should be given to traders to meet infrastructure standards especially for
on-site storage facilities and for small-scale economic infrastructure that improve handling such as
small access roads, wharves and storage facilities, and build ongoing initiatives with MAL and
CEMA to enforce regulatory standards. Infrastructure support, for on-site or small-scale economic
infrastructure, is not currently nor has it in the past been provided. As above, in terms of regulation
SIRDP has supported MAL-wide capacity building, although the practicalities of extension officers
enforcing cocoa industry regulations specifically have not been elaborated in corporate plans nor
pursued in any way, and CEMA’s capacity to fulfil its regulatory responsibilities has been further
strengthened by PHAMA’s facilitating the establishment and operation of a cocoa quality testing
laboratory although this is yet to be completed.

Low production of cocoa beans is the main challenge facing exporters. It is estimated that production
will reach around 5,000 Metric tons in 2013 down from a high of over 6,000 Metric tons in 2011,
while a realistically achievable target is considered to be around 10,000 Metric tons by 2020.

To improve production support should be given to exporters to boost prices and build on ongoing
initiatives to strengthen the Cocoa Market Access IWG and its relationship with other representative
bodies including the NCSS. Price support, whereby exporters pay a supplemental price above the
market price so as to encourage cocoa bean production, has not been trialled in the Solomon Islands.


                                                  25
In terms of marketing PHAMA has established the Cocoa Market Access IWG although this is a
stand-alone entity. SICIPS has developed ToR for the NCSC (PCCC and NCS) although there is no
functional relationship between the IWG and these bodies and the NCSC has not been functioning
despite having been formalized through cabinet endorsement.

Incapacity to service the cocoa industry is the main challenge facing MAL. This has resulted in
exporters, largely in the absence of any substantive support from MAL extension officers, providing
selected services to mainly “loyal” smallholders.

To enhance their delivery capacity MAL should engage exporters – the “private sector” – in a
partnership to deliver the full array of necessary technical and financial assistance services to
smallholders, as well as to processors and traders, and to exporters themselves. A “public-private
partnership” is a potentially more sustainable option because it draws on the combined resources of
MAL and exporters, rather than replying only on a limited number of extension officers. SIG through
the NDS provides general support to private sector led growth and specifically through the MAL
Corporate Plan and the SICIPS SIG stresses the importance of engaging the private sector to deliver
services to smallholders as well as traders and processors; and the role of the private sector has been
raised in the past especially by CLIP which recommended that future interventions should include for
instance facilitating exporters to provide more embedded services.

                         6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
There is clear commitment by SIG to the Solomon Islands cocoa industry through strategies and
policies elaborated in the NDS and the MAL Corporate Plan as well as the SICIPS and NCID and
development partners have and continue to provide diverse technical and financial support including
this report which is jointly commissioned by the World Bank, Australia DFAT and Mondelez as an
input to the design of agriculture sector interventions within the follow-on SIRDP.

There are demonstrable benefits that could accrue with efforts to increase production of Solomon
Islands cocoa.

The market trends analysis demonstrates that prices have increased by on average 13% and related to
this production has increased by on average 5% over the last decade to 2013; and based on forecasted
price increases of between 10% and 30% annual production is realistically expected to reach what is
considered to be an achievable target of around 10,000 Metric tons by 2020.

The value chain analysis demonstrates that smallholder gross margins are around SBD 11 million
annually, or over SBD 40 million annually including processors, and total gross margins are around
SBD 55 million annually, at today’s price; and based on forecasted price increases of between 10%
and 30% smallholder gross margins are expected to reach between around SBD 15 million and SBD
24 million annually, or between around SBD 35 million and SBD 45 million annually including
processors, and total gross margins are expected to more than double to over SBD 90 million
annually.

However, realising the sorts of benefits that could potentially accrue to stakeholders in the cocoa
value chain, as illustrated by various price rise scenarios, will require specific measures to improve
the productivity of cocoa trees, production, processing and handling of cocoa beans and the service
delivery capacity of MAL.



                                                  26
Figure 6.1 presents the main stakeholder opportunities, actions and service providers in the Solomon
Islands cocoa industry.

               Figure 6.1 Main stakeholders opportunities, actions and service providers

   Stakeholder     Opportunity      Action                                                      Service Provider

   Smallholder     R&D                 Technical assistance to implement R&D program           MAL
                   Husbandry           Technical assistance + matching grant and or loan to    MAL +MCILI +
                                        finance husbandry services                              Exporters
   Processor       Infrastructure      Matching grant and or loan to finance processing and    MAL + MCILI
                                        storage infrastructure                                  Exporters
                   Regulation          Technical assistance to implement and enforce           MAL + CEMA
                                        regulatory framework
   Trader          Infrastructure      Matching grant and or loan to finance on-site storage   MAL + MCILI +
                                        and small-scale economic infrastructure                 Exporters
                   Regulation          Technical assistance to implement and enforce           MAL + CEMA
                                        regulatory framework
   Exporter        Price               Matching grant and or loan to finance price             MAL + MCILI +
                                        supplements                                             Exporters
                   Marketing           Technical assistance to strengthen Cocoa Market         MAL + Exporters
                                        Access IWG and other representative bodies
   MAL             Partnership         Technical assistance to establish and implement a       MAL + MCILI
                                        partnership between MAL and Exporters                   Exporters




                                                          27
                                                             ANNEX I

                            Table 1.1: Smallholder costs, revenues and gross margins
                                                                No.         Today's         Low        Medium          High
                             Notes        Unit     Unit        Units         Price          Price       Price          Price
                                                  SBD                        SBD            SBD          SBD           SBD
Revenue
Sale of wet beans            a          Kg         3.0        2,244        6,732              7,405         8,078        8,752
Total                                                                      6,732              7,405         8,078        8,752
Labour costs
Harvesting and breaking      b          P. days       30              69           2,070      2,070         2,070        2,070
Tree maintenance             c          P. days       30              81           2,430      2,430         2,430        2,430
Total                                                                              4,500      4,500         4,500        4,500
Gross margin                                                                       2,232      2,905         3,578        4,252
a.   I.02 Metric ton x 2.2 dry-to-wet conversion ratio
b.   68 Person days/Metric ton dry bean @ SBD 30/Person day
c.   27 Person days/Ha/Year @ SBD 30/Person day

                              Table 1.2: Processor costs, revenues and gross margins
                                                                No.         Today's         Low        Medium          High
                             Notes        Unit     Unit        Units         Price          Price       Price          Price
                                                   SBD                       SBD            SBD          SBD           SBD
Revenue

Sale of dry beans            a          Kg        13.50         1,010      13,632          14,996      16,359         17,722
Total                                                                          13,632       14,996         16,359       17,722
Bean costs
Wet beans                    b          Kg            3.0       2,244              6,732      7,405         8,078        8,752
Labour costs
Fermenting and drying        c          P. days       30               6            180        180              191       223
Sorting and bagging          d          P. days       30               1             30           30             32            37
Transport costs
Wet beans                    e          Bag              5            50            252        252              268       313
Other costs
Wood fuel                    f          P. days       30               4            120        120              127       149
Bags                         g          Bags          10              13            126        126              134       157
Total                                                                              7,441      8,114         8,830        9,630
Gross margin                                                                       6,192      6,882         7,529        8,092
a.   1 Metric ton x 1% shrinkage
b.   1 Metric ton x 2.2 dry-to-wet conversion ratio
c.   6 Person days/Metric ton dry bean
d.   1 Person day/Metric ton dry bean
e.   Freight SBD 5/bag @ 20/Kg/bag
f.   4 Person days/Metric ton
g.   Second hand 80 Kg bags @ SBD 10/bag




                                                               28
                                Table 1.3: Trader costs, revenues and gross margins
                                                            No.        Today's      Low      Medium       High
                            Notes      Unit        Unit    Units        Price       Price     Price       Price
                                                   SBD                  SBD         SBD       SBD         SBD
Revenue

Dry beans                   a        Kg            16.50        990       16,332    17,965     19,598     21,231
Total                                                                     16,332    17,965     19,598     21,231
Bean costs

Dry beans                   b        Kg            13.50    1,010         13,632    14,996     16,359     17,722
Transport costs
Dry beans                   c        Bags            60          16           990      990          960      960
Labour costs
Handling costs              d                        30            1           30       30           30         30
Other Costs
Bags                        e        Bags            10          12           124      124          120      120
Total                                                                     14,776    16,139     17,469     18,832
Gross margin                                                               1,556     1,826      2,129      2,399
a.   1 Metric ton x 2% shrinkage
b.   1 Metric tonne
c.   Freight SBD 60/bag @ 80 kg/bag
d.   1 Person day/Metric ton sorting and bagging
e.   Second hand 80 Kg bags @ SBD 10/bag




                                                           29
                                Table 1.4: Exporter costs, revenues and gross margins
                                                              No.        Today's       Low         Medium       High
                            Notes      Unit        Unit      Units        Price        Price        Price       Price
                                                   SBD                    SBD          SBD          SBD         SBD
Revenue
Dry beans                   a        Kg            19.5         960         18,722     20,594        22,466     24,339
Total                                                                       18,722     20,594        22,466     24,339
Bean costs
Dry beans                   b        Kg            16.5         990         16,332     17,965        19,598     21,231
Transport costs
Dry bean                    c        Container     73.3              1           73        73              78         82
Container                   d        Container      107              1          107       107             113      119
Labour costs
Sorting and bagging         e        P. Days         30              1           30        30              32         34
Other costs
Container permit            f        Container       33              1           33        33              35         37
Phyto-sanitary cert.        g        Container       10              1           10        10              11         11
SIPA handling               h        Shipment        87              1           87        87              92         97
CEMA management fee         i        Container       60              1           60        60              64         67
Container staffing          j        Container       20              1           20        20              21         22
Fumigation                  k        Container       67              1           67        67              71         75
Customs documentation       l        Shipment         1              1             1           1            1           1
Bags and twine              m        Bags            22            44           960       960         1,018      1,075
Total                                                                       17,779     19,412        21,132     22,852
Gross margin                                                                    943     1,182         1,334      1,486
a.   1 Metric ton dry beans x 3% shrinkage @ 19.50/kg
b.   I Metric ton
c.   3 tonne truck from port to storage 220/trip
d.   Container to storage to wharf to storage SBD 800/trip
e.   1 Person day/Metric ton dry beans
f.   Solomon Islands Agriculture Quarantine Service @ SBD 500/container
g.   Solomon Islands Agriculture Quarantine Service @ SBD 150/container
h.   Solomon Islands Ports Authority handing @ SBD 1,300/shipment
i    Cocoa Export and Martketing Authority management fee @ SBD 900/container
j.   Container handling @ SBD 300/container
k.   Fumigation @ SBD 1,000/container
l.   Customs documentation @ SBD 10/shipment
     New 62.5 Kg bags @
m.   22/bag




                                                              30
                                             ANNEX II
Profile One: Exporter
This is a family owned business that has been licensed to export cocoa beans since 1991. The
company has its head office in Honiara. It has storage facilities and vehicles operating in Guadalcanal
and Malaita, taking advantage of the extensive road networks to buy dry beans from processors, and
otherwise buys dry beans from traders with whom it has long-term relations in Guadalcanal, Malaita
and Makira.

The company exports to bulk cocoa market through an international broker who pre-finances the
purchase of cocoa beans and sells to grinders and chocolate manufacturers in the South East Asian
markets of Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.

The company is the largest exporter in the Solomon Islands having averaged around 495 metric tons
annually for the last 22 years. In 2007 the company exported 817 tonnes or 19% of total exports, by
2010 exported 31% of total exports and based on current estimates is expected to remaining the
largest exporter with an increasing share of the total exports.

As the company is dealing in relatively large volumes of cocoa it has been able to negotiate special
freight rates for the domestic transport of cocoa beans from especially Maliata and Makira to Honiara
on Guadalcanal.

Other than establishing an extensive trading network the company has developed a number of
innovations aimed at cementing the loyalty of clients including smallholders, processors and traders.
The company endeavours to offer competitive prices as well as a number of other incentives including
advancing working capital to its most loyal clients; providing drying facility materials such as drums,
netting and chimneys, handing out free bags, reduced freight rates, discounted prices for poor quality
(especially moist and damaged) beans and annual prizes of SBD 10,000 to those trading the largest
annual volumes.

The most significant challenge, which constraints the company’s growth, is access to working capital.
The company has taken short-term loan from a commercial bank but the company still relies on the
pre-financing arrangements with its international broker.

Profile Two: Exporter
This is a family owned company that has been licensed to export since 2002. The company has its
head office based near Honiara and is involved in both cocoa exporting and cocoa seedling supply
services.

The company has established a nursery for Amelonado variety of cocoa and distributing the seedlings
to its smallholders assisted by its international broker by various regional and national programs
including a quality standard storage shed, facilitation to enter the fair trade market, market study trips
to South East Asia and financial assistance.

The company exports to the bulk cocoa market through an international broker but is also
endeavouring to venture into the “fair trade” market and for the last 5 years. Th e company had
developed trading relationships with at least two cocoa plantations owned by church institutions east
and west of Honiara and it buys dry beans from established traders in Western, Malaita and Isabel
provinces most of who has received seedlings from the company.

The company is a medium-sized exporter having exported around 197 metric tons in 2002 and has
since averaged around 90 tonnes annually during the last 12 years. For the last 3 years, the company
had exported 105, 32.5 and 45 tonnes for 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively. Over the same period the
company distributed at least 900,000 seedlings – equivalent to about 900 hectares of cocoa – of which
at least 50% would be already producing.



                                                   31
Other than from supplying free seedlings, the company also assisted its smallholders with
rehabilitation, provided free sacks and subsidised freight for those delivering cocoa beans to their
storage shed. The company is also currently looking into developing 100 ha of titled land as an out-
grower scheme, dividing the land into 1-2 ha blocks and leasing it to smallholder families to sell their
wet beans to a central processing facility.

Other than the challenge of insufficient working capital the company is struggling to enter into the fair
trader and other niche markets for which it would earn a premium price for its cocoa beans.

Profile Three: Exporter
This company is a joint venture between Australian commodities trading company and landowners of
a commercial plantation that was abandoned by its Belgium owner following the ethnic tension from
1999-2003. The locally registered company invested in rehabilitating over 500 hectares of over-grown
plantation before commencing production. The company also operates a shipping service, freighting
general cargoes and beach trading of copra, cocoa as well as timber. Managers operate the company
on behalf of the foreign owner with about 50 local employees engaged in the plantation, shipping and
cocoa trading activities.

Initially, the company started copra trading and freighting services linking Honiara with Choiseul and
Isabel provinces. It took over the former Buying Centre at Choiseul Bay from CEMA, where it traded
copra as well as operated wholesale services for general goods and fuel. As its interest in trading
cocoa increased, it shifted its services to Guadalcanal and Makira provinces, (where cocoa is more
abundant) and sold its interest in Choiseul and closed its services to Isabel Province. After acquiring
the plantation on Guadalcanal Plains, the company now concentrates its operations on the plantation
and beach-trading services to Makira and eastern parts of Guadalcanal Province. Apart from a branch
that it had established at Kirakira (Makira), the company also established strong partnership
arrangements with cocoa grower-processors on Guadalcanal Plains close to its plantation as well as
trader agents on Makira, Temotu as well as East Guadalcanal. These partners and agents also trade
copra as well as cocoa.

The company also has a direct trading relationship with a chocolate manufacturer with whom it has an
R&D program aimed using controlled fermentation technique. More recently, it has established a
subsidiary in New Zealand that processes its cocoa into cocoa mass before selling to cocoa product
manufacturers.

The company started exporting its first batch of 25 tonnes in 2008 and has since increased its export
to an annual average of some 295 metric tons.

Providing reliable and regular monthly beach-trading services to its cocoa, copra and rural traders has
stimulated growth and viability of many rural enterprises including cocoa and copra growers and
traders. Buying cocoa and copra at the villages saved growers freight and other associated costs to
freighting to Honiara. The company also support cocoa growers-processors and agents with local
freight, drier materials, sacks and other services. For more loyal and larger growers and traders, the
company provides pre-financing and construction of better designed processing units as well as
vehicles on hire-purchase basis with beans. It also provided training on Integrated Pest and Disease
Management (IPDM) practices and quality processing (especially with its controlled fermentation
method) with its key clients especially on Guadalcanal.

While the company has some problems with its land-owning partners, it has diversified its business
and sourcing its cocoa and marketing strategically to meet these challenges.

Profile Four: Exporter
This company was established only in 2011 following a market study tour, funded by the Cocoa
Livelihoods Improvement Programme (CLIP) to cocoa markets in South East Asia with the aim of
trading direct with the cocoa products manufacturers rather than through brokers. After discussions


                                                   32
with one importer, four out of the seven original formed a company and consolidated their exports to
one international manufacturer.

This resulted in the formation of this company with equal share holding for the four partners.
Individually, the four partners are associations of a cocoa farmers based on Guadalcanal (300
members), Makira (300 members), Malaita (300 members) and Western (200 members). Three of
these shareholders have exported cocoa – since 2004 while the other two in 2011 while the other
shareholder has not been exporting but had invested in developing a 50 hectare cocoa farm for its
members.

The company has an office at Honiara but also has operational offices closer to their respective
associations in their respective provinces. Each association has its own manager and Committee,
except for the Guadalcanal group who are yet to formalise their association.

The company has exported its first 60 tonnes this year. While the company sources its cocoa from its
membership, each association also buys wet and dry beans from nearby smallholders and processors
to add to its tonnage to meet its contractual obligations. In general, the company receives a slightly
higher price (10-15%) for dealing directly with an international manufacturer.

While the company received better price for dealing direct with the international manufacturer,
opportunities for even better prices are often not realised because of the associations’ limited
production, in-consistency of quality standards and not developing its own company quality brand.

The company offers some incentives to its grower member clients with prices and purchasing at the
villagers closer to their operations. They also other offer incentives to processors with volume of
cocoa exceeding one metric ton.

The company has identified a number of challenges: a need to strengthen the bonding loyalties of
members of the each association by incentivizing their services and through transparent and
accountable management of the business so that members take ownership of the company; overt
cooperation and collaboration of the four associations’ management with the company management;
educate and improve their members’ knowledge and skills on processing good quality cocoa to meet
the obligations that the company has with the importer; develop and maintain their own “brand” of
cocoa for their market; encourage their members to improve their farms productivity and where land
is available, expand their plantings; and educate their members to accept short-term benefits for
longer term secure market for their cocoa beans.




                                                 33
34
