OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                               1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION        U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
December 30, 2013
Honorable Rick Nelson Houenipwela
Minister of Finance and Treasury
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
P.O. Box 26
Honiara, Solomon Islands
Dear Minister:
Solomon Islands: Rural Development Program (Grant No. TF090652)
Amendment to Australia Co-Financing Grant Agreement
We refer to the Australia Co-Financing Grant Agreement ("Agreement") of December 11,
2007, as amended to date, between the Solomon Islands (the "Recipient") and the International
Development Association (the "World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided
by the Commonwealth of Australia (the Donor) under the Co-Financing Trust Fund for the
Solomon Islands Rural Development Program.
We propose to amend the Agreement to increase the amount of available Grant funds by
an additional one million six hundred thirty seven thousand ninety six United States dollars (JS$
1,637,096). The increase in Grant funds reflects additional contributions received from the
Donor. Accordingly, we hereby agree to amend the first sentence of the Agreement to read as
follows:
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Solomon Islands
(the "Recipient"), I am pleased to inform you that the International Development
Association (the "World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by the
Government of Australia (the "Donor") under the Co-Financing Trust Fund for the
Solomon Islands Rural Development Program, proposes to extend to the Recipient a grant
in an amount not to exceed eight million six hundred four thousand nine hundred fifty-five
United States Dollars (US$8,604,955) (the "Grant") on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this letter agreement (the "Agreement"), which includes the attached
Annex, to assist in the financing of the project described in the Annex (the "Project").
Except as specifically indicated in this Letter of Amendment, all terms and conditions of
the Grant Agreement otherwise remain in full force and effect.


﻿Please confirm the Recipient's agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized
official of the Recipient sign and date both enclosed copies of this letter in the space provided
and returning one signed copy. This Amendment will become effective on the date of the
Recipient's countersignature.
Sincerely,
INTERNA     -         2        NT ASSOCIATION
mcting Country Director
Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea
& Pacific Islands
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
SOLOMON ISLANDS
By__L_
Authorized Representative
Name        __        __s
Title K
Date:    ___     ___     __
2


