Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19139-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$10 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 25.7 MILLION (US$35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
FOURTH TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
April 20, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



- ii -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1999)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan 1   US$0.12
US$1.00 = Yuan 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CEM        Country Economic Memorandum
CIF        Cost, Insurance and Freight
CRISPP    Credit for Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
FSD        Financial and Statistics Division (MOF)
GOC        Government of China
IAD        International Affairs Department (MOF)
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association
IQTE       Institute of Quantitative and Technical Economics
MOF        Ministry of Finance
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
PFBs       Provincial Finance Bureaus
PIAs       Project Implementing Agencies
PID        Project Information Document
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PMO        Project Management Office
PP         Procurement Plan
PPPS       Preinvestment and Project Preparation Support
RMC        World Bank Resident Mission in China
RSID       Reform Support and Institutional Development
SDPC       State Development Planning Commission
SOEs       State Owned Enterprises
TA         Technical Assistance
TAHRD    Technical Assistance and Human Resources Development Division (MOF)
TCP IV     Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
TOR        Terms of Reference
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager: Tamar Manuelyan Atinc (Acting)
Task Team Leader: Shenhua Wang



China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .........................                           ................2
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .........................................................                    2
2. Main sector issues and government strategy ............................3............................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ......................................3
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components .........................................................3
2. Key policy and institutional reform  supported by the project ................................. ............4
3. Project benefits and target population .........................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................................                       5
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives and reasons for rejection ...............................                     ..........................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies ................. 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .11
4. Indications of borrower's commitment and ownership .......................................                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .......................................                                          12
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic .......................................                                                                             12
2. Financial .......................................                                                                            12
3. Technical .......................................                                                                            12
4. Institutional .......................................                                                                        12
5. Social .......................................                                                                               13
6. Environmental assessment .......................................                                                             13
7. Participatory approach .......................................                                                               13
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .......................................                                                                       14
2. Critical risks .......................................                                                                        14
3. Possible controversial aspects .......................................                                                       14
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness .......................................                                                                        14
2. Other .......................................                                                                                 14



- ii -
H: Readiness for Implementation
1. Compliance with Bank policies .................................................                                             15
Annex 1: Project Design  Summary .....................................................                                                 16
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description .....................................................                                            19
Annex 3: Project Cost Estimates .....................................................                                                  25
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs by Component .....................................................                            25
Table 3.2: Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure .....................................................                          26
Table 3.3: Estimated Project Costs by Year .....................................................                               27
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary .....................................................                                     28
Annex 5: Financial Summary .....................................................                                                       29
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................... 30
Table A6. la: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .................................................. 32
Table A6. Ib: Consultant Selection Arrangements .....................................................                            33
Table A6.2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ................................... 33
Table A6.3 Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds .....................................................                          34
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule ......................................................                                            35
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File.....36
Annex 9: Status of Bank Group Operations in China ......................................................                                37
Annex 10: China at a Glance .....................................................                                                      41
Annex  11: Review  of Financial Management System  .....................................................                                  43



- 1 -
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Poverty Reduction & Economic Management Sector Unit
Date: April 20, 1999                          Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Shenhua Wang
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang         Sector Manager/Director: Tamar Manuelyan Atinc (Acting)
Project ID: CN-PE-42299    Sector: Public Sector   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: SIL - IBRD Loan / IDA Credit  Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes   [x ]  No
Project Financing Data              [x]  Loan   [x] Credit       [   Guarantee   [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): IBRD Loan: $10 million, IDA Credit: SDR 25.7 million
Proposed terms: IBRD (IDA)             [x] IDA: Multicurrency: [x] IBRD: Single currency: US$
Basket (SDR)
Grace period (years): 5 (10)   [   Standard Variable   [] Fixed [x] LIBOR-based (for IBRD)
Years to maturity: 20 (35)
Commitment fee: 0.75 (0.5)%
Service charge: (0.75)%
Front-end fee: 1%
Financing plan: (US$m)
Source                       Local            Foreign          Total
GOC                           16.4               5.4           21.8
IBRD                                             10.0          10.0
IDA                            9.6              25.4           35.0
Total                         26.0              40.8           66.8
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency(ies): International Affairs Department of Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):  1999    2000    2001    2002    2003       2004    2005
IBRD 1% Front end fee    0.1
Annual    2.3      7.5     11.7     11.4     6.7      3.6        1.7
Cumulative    2.4      9.9    21.6      33.0    39.7    43.3        45.0
Project implementation period: September 1999-December 2004 Expected effectiveness date: September 1, 1999
Expected closing date: December 31, 2005



- 2-
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of this project is to provide continued support to the Government of China (GOC)
in its economic and structural reform effort. While this effort has contributed to China's
remarkable economic growth over the last two decades, it has also created a new set of
challenges. Among the greatest economic and structural reform challenges facing GOC are (a)
increasing macroeconomic vulnerabilities, and (b) growing inequality combined with persistent
poverty. Intensifying these challenges are a large number of loss-making state-owned enterprises
(SOEs), a rising financial demand from the social security system and a fragile financial sector.
The need to resolve these challenges, which underlines the importance of supporting GOC in its
economic and structural reform effort, has been exacerbated with the onset of the Asian financial
crisis. Supporting GOC will be achieved through: (a) strengthening institutions that are key to
GOC's ongoing but unfinished economic and structural reform agenda; (b) developing selected
economic and structural reform programs which address priority needs of GOC; (c) strengthening
agencies involved in poverty reduction and rural development; and (d) improving the preparation
of projects involved in fostering sustainable development.
Key performance indicators include: (a) establishment of a national economic forecasting system;
(b) establishment of demonstrative regional models for disaster prevention and control; (c)
number of economic and structural reform activities undertaken; (d) number of people involved
in design of economic reform and/or poverty alleviation programs who receive training; (e)
satisfactory feasibility study reports and procurement documentation prepared.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 16321 -CHA (February 25, 1997)
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 28, 1998 (Board document R 98-107)
The Bank's CAS for China envisages operational support for: macroeconomic growth and
structural reform; infrastructure development; human development and poverty reduction;
agriculture and rural development; and environment protection. Its over-arching objective is to
free from poverty the large number of people who have yet to benefit from the country's
economic growth in remote and isolated rural areas, as well as in urban areas. The major vehicles
for achieving these objectives are: (a) support for reforms in the financial, state enterprise and
public sectors, pension and housing system, and corporate governance; (b) assistance to reduce
poverty and promote rural development; (c) support for private sector development; and (d)
investment in the reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks.
The proposed project will support the Bank's CAS in several ways. First, strengthening reform
institutions and developing economic reform programs complements the CAS objective of
supporting macroeconomic and structural reforms. The urgency of these reforms has been
magnified by the Asian crisis, now into its second year. The Bank is supporting these economic
and structural reform efforts through its Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and with
assistance activities carried out under the CAS. For these initiatives to succeed and the reform
momentum to be sustained, institutional capacity for reform must be strengthened, and lessons of
international experience be communicated and adapted to the Chinese situation. Secondly, the
proposed project will directly strengthen poverty reduction and rural development agencies, one
of the vehicles targeted by the Bank to free from poverty the large number of rural people who



- 3 -
have yet to benefit from the country's economic growth. Furthermore, the proposed project will
improve the preparation of the projects related to sustainable development.
In addition, the project complements the portfolio management efforts of GOC and the Bank.
Partially as a response to the regional crisis, there is a new urgency prevailing to the reform
effort. What is needed are a buttress of institutional capabilities for reform and policy related
studies that incorporate international experience to the Chinese context. The proposed project
could be seen as a needed companion to the CEM, further supplementing the Bank's own
program of collaboration with GOC on policy studies to be launched by the CEM's
recommendations. The Bank is also introducing more rigorous project requirements, such as
those with regard to financial management and procurement. The proposed project will provide a
vehicle for addressing current and emerging government institutional weaknesses affecting its
ability to implement projects efficiently, and for strengthening capabilities in specific areas
important to satisfactory project implementation.
2. Main sector issues and government strategy:
Several major sector issues confront GOC as it continues its program of economic transformation.
At the macroeconomic and structural level, China's financial sector remains fragile, the SOE
sector is awash with red ink, and the social security system is not yet completed. At the social
sector level, the education system is not fully responsive to the labor market, the health care
sector remains under-financed, and in agriculture and rural development, some people in remote
areas remain entrenched in poverty.
GOC has adopted reform strategies to deal with the existing sector issues. Some of the specific
strategies include:
*  Development of macroeconomic institutions;
* Furthering integration with the international economic system;
*  Training of high level economic administrators;
*  Strengthening Chinese banks' capital bases and reducing non-performing loans;
*  Deepening reforms of SOEs;
* Concentrating poverty alleviation efforts on central and western China;
*  Marketization of housing in urban areas;
*  Implementation of pension reform;
*  Improvement of educational access and quality;
*  Strengthening of health programs.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address: (a) economic and structural reform issues through strengthening the
institutions involved in GOC's reform agenda as well as developing selected programs; (b)
poverty alleviation issues through strengthening poverty alleviation institutions, including
provincial Offices of Poverty Alleviation and Development, as well as the Yangling Agricultural
Demonstration Zone; and (c) implementation issues through strengthening institutions managing
sustainable development projects.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):



- 4 -
The project comprises two related components. Component A, Reform Support and Institutional
Development (RSID) is to be executed by selected institutions involved in GOC's economic
reform policies based on GOC's priorities. This component will be designed to: (a) strengthen
institutions that are key to GOC's ongoing but yet unfinished economic and structural reform
agenda; (b) develop selected economic and structure reform programs which address priority
needs of GOC; and (c) upgrade agencies involved in poverty reduction.
Component B, Pre-investment and Project Preparation Support (PPPS), finances consultants'
services, training and equipment required for the preparation of feasibility studies procurement
documentation of projects related to sustainable development. Those projects proposed for Bank
financing will be selected from those included in China's proposed Three-Year Rolling Lending
Program. An illustrative list of projects, of which several are at an advanced stage of preparation,
and the criteria and procedures for selection are included in Annex 2. For the projects to be
financed by other donor agencies and GOC, the selection will be based on the National Key
Construction Project Plans of the State Development Planning Commission (SDPC), with the
same criteria and procedures.
The Bank will finance about 67% of the total project cost; GOC will finance the remaining 33%.
Bank assistance will fund the provision of training, consultants' services, study tours and training
as well as some office equipment and materials.
Project Summary
_ Costs Incl. 
.Conti nncie   %    Bank-financing     %
Component         Category        Contngencies    of        (US$m       of Bank-
equivalent)    Total    equivalent)   financing
A.   Reform Support and Institutional Development (RSID)
RSID           1. Consultant services   22.3       33.4        17.8        39.6
and training
2. Equipment             5.9        8.8         4.7         10.4
3. Miscellaneous         6.3        9.5         0            0
B.   Preinvestment and Project Preparation Support (PPPS)
PPPS           1. Consultant services   20.2       30.2        20.2        44.8
and training
2. Equipment             3.0        4.5         2.2         5.0
3. Miscellaneous         9.0        13.5        0            0
Front End Fee                           0.1        0.1         0.1          0.2
(1% of IBRD)010.0102
Total                              66.8        100        45.0         100
2. Key policy and institutional reform supported by the project:
Among other activities, the following institutional reform programs will be supported by the
project:
(a)  establishment and improvement of a regional and sectoral economic forecasting system
(Chinese Academy of Social Sciences);



- 5 -
(b)  strengthening of capacity in the development of training curricula for market-oriented
economic courses, and the building up of the nation-wide civil servants training system (National
School of Administration);
(c)  support for Guizhou Province, one of the least developed provinces in China, in its
government reform and poverty alleviation agendas (Guizhou Provincial Government); and
(d)  support for the development of agriculture science, technology and institutional reform
(Shaanxi Yangling Agricultural Demonstration Zone).
Although the coverage of these reforms may be potentially extensive, care will be taken to control
the scope of the project so as to ensure effective implementation.
3. Project benefits and target population:
To the Chinese authorities, the importance of this project lies in part in that it will have
substantial spillover effects on increasing the probability of success of economic and structural
reform efforts, and on improving the methods of general project management.
The specific benefits of the RSID component are that it will: (a) reinforce GOC's economic and
structural reform efforts; (b) strengthen institutions involved in GOC's economic and structural
reform program; and (c) enhance capacity of institutions to manage and implement projects
related to sustainable development.
The specific benefits of the PPPS component is that it will provide funds for, in line with
international standards, the preparation of sustainable development projects to be financed by the
Bank, and hence maintain and further improve portfolio performance, which will be conducive to
the portfolio management efforts of GOC and the Bank. In addition, by expanding support to
project preparation to the key projects to be financed by other donor agencies and GOC, the
proposed project could improve the overall project implementation quality and increase the
involvement and contribution of the Bank.
The immediate target population is the staff of the institutions involved in GOC's reform agenda,
and the staff of the provincial and local agencies covered by the project for RSID component. The
immediate target population for the PPPS component is staff working in agencies involved in
sustainable development projects. These staff will learn from international consultants through
working contact, receive training and be provided with better equipment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation Structure. The Technical Assistance & Human Resources
Development Division (TAH1RD), the International Affairs Department of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) will be responsible for the overall project coordination and the supervision of
project implementation. Before considering subprojects for financing, MOF will verify, with
SDPC, the priority of the subprojects. MOF will also determine that no other suitable grant funds
are readily available for funding the proposed project prior to submitting the subproject proposal
for approval by the Bank. MOF will ensure effective coordination among the departments and
agencies involved in subproject implementation. Moreover, MOF will monitor the substantive
and financial performance of all subprojects in components A and B.
MOF has appointed an overall project manager in TAHRD, who will play a coordinating role and
be the principal point of contact with the Bank. A project coordinator in the division will support



- 6 -
the overall project manager. The project accounting manager, located in the Financial and
Statistics Division (FSD) of MOF, will maintain the accounts for the entire project. A
disbursement officer and a cashier will be appointed to work under the accounting manager. They
will provide reporting information on project monitoring indicators, project accounts and
procurement to the overall project manager and project accounting manager.
The selected subproject agencies and units applying to the MOF for the Fourth Technical
Cooperation Project (TCP IV) credit and loan will become the project implementing agencies
(PIAs) of relevant sub-projects under TCP IV once their request for subproject identification is
approved. PIAs are responsible for the respective operation and finance administration. The PIAs
will be requested to submit relevant plans and reports to the MOF according to the relevant rules
and regulations, and accept supervision and guidance of project administration and auditing
institutions. The PIAs will designate sub-project managers and accountants who will administer
the relevant operations, keep operational archives, and maintain routine contacts with the MOF.



-7-
China: Fourth Technical Cooperation
Organization Chart
| National  |                     |        Ministry of Finance
L Level    |                      L                 l
International Affairs Departnent
|    PMO  |   l         Technical Assistance and                    Financial and Statistics
Human Resources Development Division                       Division
FProject Manager                                FAccounting Manager
|  roject Coordinator   | |Disbursement Officer         l l          Cashierl
Components                 Refo   Support and Institutional                   Pre-investment and Project
Development (RSID)                           Preparation Support (PPPS)
1. Chinese Academy of Social Sciences            1. Sustainable Forestry
2. National School of Administration             2. Water Conservation
Subprojects/       3. Chinese Academy of Sciences                    3. Flood Control Program
Subproject         4. Hebei Bureau of Finance                        4. Hebei Water Supply & Environment
Implementing       5. Guizhou Province Reform and Dev. Study         5. Beijing Environment II
Agencies           6. Shaanxi Yangling Demonstration Zone            6. Jiangxi Agriculture Development II
7. Provincial Offices of Poverty Alleviation and  7. Semi-Arid Lands Development
Development                                   8. Huai River Basin Pollution Control
8. Inner Mongolia Auto. Region Finance Bureau    9. Sub-projects to be selected (a).
9. Xinjiang Uygur Auto. Region Finance Bureau
10. Yunnan Provincial Finance Bureau
11. Henan Provincial Finance Bureau
12. Sub-projects to be selected (a)
Note(a): Subproject implementing agencies are not yet finalized; above is a tentative list.



- 8 -
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared by PMO and each PIA for use in the
management of the Project. The PIP includes the Implementation Guidelines, Finance
Administration and Settlement Method, Disbursement Regulations, Procurement Plan,
Monitoring Indicator Table, Outline of Subproject Proposal and Detailed Cost Table of
Subproject. A copy of the PIP is available in the Project file.
Procurement Arrangement. Procurement arrangements are described in more detail in Annex 6.
The ability of the implementing agencies to implement the procurement plan was assessed and
found to be adequate. The report of the assessment is available in the Project File. The Bank, in
collaboration with PMO, will provide training to enhance the skills of the staff at PIAs as needed.
Disbursement Arrangements. Disbursement arrangements are described in Annex 6. A Special
Account will be established with the amount of Authorized Allocation equivalent to US$ 3
million. Statements of expenditure will be required for disbursements to be made against (a)
contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000; (b) training and study tour expenses; and (c)
consultant services costing less than US$100,000 for firms and less than US$30,000 for
individuals. The supporting documents for statements of expenditure will be retained by each PIA
and made available for review by the Bank's supervision missions. In the case of contracts for
goods and consultant services above these thresholds, disbursements will be made against the full
documentation of the contracts themselves and other supporting documents.
Financial Management and Auditing. The Financial Management System (FMS) to be used
during project implementation has been reviewed by the Bank, and has been found satisfactory
(Annex 11). The financial management system is in place, the staff has extensive experience
from implementing previous and existing Bank projects. Financial reporting formats have been
discussed and agreed with the borrowing agencies and approved by the Bank's regional Financial
Management Specialist. Under the agreed procedures, GOC will submit to the Bank, on a semi-
annual basis, a single set of financial reports covering all components of the project. These
reports detailed in PIP will comprise:
Balance Sheet. The statement will cover overall progress of the project.
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds. Sources (IBRD, IDA and GOC) of funds, and
uses (equipment, consultants' services and training) of funds will be reported on a cash
basis for the period and for the project to date.
Statement of Implementation of CreditlLoan Agreement: The Statement will classify
expenditures according to project categories, and will report current and cumulative
withdrawals for Credit and Loan proceeds.
Special Account Statement. A report reconciling the closing balance of the project Special
Account to the Bank account statement will be prepared.
Each PIA will be required to prepare and maintain its own project record as required by the Bank,
including a project general ledger and cash disbursement journal, which are needed to facilitate
the systematic recording of project transactions in a way that will enable the required project
financial reports to be prepared in a timely and reliable manner. Each PIA will also be required to
prepare written procedures for the vendor payables/cash disbursement function in the project
office, as well as procedures and records for property control related to the large quantity of
equipment to be acquired under the project. These procedures and records reflect a sound system
of internal controls. The project office has the necessary adequate staff skilful to reliably execute



-9-
the established procedures and maintain the project records. Annual project financial statement
will be audited by the National Audit Office.
Terms of Availability of Bank Funds. The maturity will be not less than 10 years, inclusive of
a grace period of 5 years; and the interest rate no more than 1% per annum for RSID component.
As for PPPS component, an interest rate not exceeding 3% per annum will be charged and the
maturity will not be shorter than 5 years. The front-end fee and the commitment charge will be
borne by MOF. PIAs will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Supervision, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting. Responsibility for supervision of the
project will remain with the Bank's Resident Mission in China (RMC), with participation from
team members from both RMC and headquarters. Specifically, the supervision plan includes the
following:
*  A project launch workshop, which will be arranged soon after Board approval, will give
focus on the essential project management activities including procurement, financial
management, and any other requirements for project implementation set forth in the PIP.
M  Two formal supervision mission a year will be scheduled, including the annual review
mission. All such missions will comprise the task team leader, an operations officer,
procurement and disbursement specialists from HQ or RMC as required. Financial specialists
will visit the project at least once a year. Field-based staff will maintain regular contact with
PMO and PIAs between scheduled missions, and will make additional field visits as deemed
necessary.
*  A mid-term Review of the project is scheduled for the second half of 2001. This will provide
an opportunity for a more in-depth review of the project and evaluation of progress towards
achievement of project objectives.
Monitoring indicators including performance indicators (as in the PIP) will be used to evaluate
progress under the project. A Progress report is required and will be sent by MOF to the Bank
Group every six months by February 28 and August 31 each year. Annual Implementation Plan
will be sent by the PIAs to MOF by November 30 each year, for consolidation and forwarding to
the Bank. MOF will make broad assessment of project implementation in a draft project
completion report to be submitted to the Bank Group no later than six months following the close
of the Credit/Loan account.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives and reasons for rejection:
Most of the previous TA projects adopted a process, or flexible, approach that was appropriate
given the uncertainties of the demand for TA and the changing environment at the time. No
appropriate alternatives are found. The process approach, therefore, remains appropriate for the
proposed project. Past similar projects, as listed below, have achieved the objective in helping
institutional building and reforms in China.



- 10 -
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector Issue                       Project                 Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Progress    Development
(IP)             Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
The project (with total Bank fund of US$  1. China - Technical      S                                 S
10 million) was to assist GOC to prepare  Cooperation Credit       The credit was fully
projects to be financed by the Bank Group;  (Cr. 1412-CHA)         disbursed and closed on
to strengthen GOC's capacity to select,                            December 31, 1988, after a
prepare, and implement projects and to                             one-year extension.
administer TA.
The project (total Bank funding of US$20                            S
million) was to assist and strengthen GOC's  2. China - Second Technical    The credit was closed on  S
capability in project preparation and  Cooperation Project         June 30, 1994, after two
implementation; increase the number of  (Cr. 1664-CHA)             years of extension, when
core agencies involved with Bank                                    SDR 0.5 million (about US$
operations; and improve the economic and                           0.7 million) was canceled.
policy studies by research agencies.
The project was designed to assist GOC in
strengthening its development policy and  3.China - Planning Support  S
planning capability; in preparing and  and Special Studies Project  The credit was closed on
implementing inter-sectoral and innovative   (Cr. 1835-CHA)        December 31, 1994 after            S
technical assistance projects; and in                              two years of extension,
strengthening key institutions responsible                         when a balance of SDR
for economic and financial reform.                                  1,532,670 (approximately
US$ 2,260,075) was
The project was to support China's overall                         canceled.
economic reform and modernization effort   4. China - Reform,
and help to strengthen key institutions  Institutional Support and  The project is still on going,
responsible for policy research, training and  Preinvestment Project  though slow in
implementation; and help prepare projects   (Cr. 2447-CHA)         disbursement, and the credit
financed by the Bank.                                              closing date was extended
for two years to June 30,
Other development agencies                                         2000.
None known
IP/D0 Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HlU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



- 11 -
In addition, the Bank has approved the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2423-
CHA), the Environment Technical Assistance Project (Cr.2522-CHA), Economic Law Reform
Project (Cr. 2654-CHA), the Fiscal and Tax Reform Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2709-
CHA, Ln. 3873-CHA), and the Accounting Reform and Development Project (Cr. 3173-CHA,
Ln. 4442-CHA).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The implementation of previous TA projects has yielded valuable lessons for the design of the
proposed project. It will continue to build on the strengths of these earlier projects, such as
ensuring strong government ownership and good management capability of implementing
agencies by emphasizing discipline and accountability. Meanwhile, it will seek to redress several
weaknesses.
(a)  The previous TA projects have a common problem of slow disbursement. In order to avoid
similar problem, concrete steps have been taken to facilitate timely project implementation and
disbursement for both Components A and B of the proposed project. In Component A, project
team has identified adequate potential subprojects. Out of which, eleven subprojects are at
advanced stage and hence ready for implementation upon approval of this project by the Board.
In fact, retroactive financing has been agreed for some subprojects. In Component B, the
restructuring of the former World Bank Department of MOF into the present International Affairs
Department (IAD) of MOF ;s an opportunity to broaden the scope of projects eligible to receive
TA project proceeds. The IAD will be responsible not only for managing the World Bank
projects, but also projects financed by other donor agencies and GOC. As a result, the IAD will
have a much larger pool of projects. It is assumed that a larger pool of projects will enable the
IAD recommend, in a timely manner, high potential projects for TA project proceeds. By
expanding the pool of projects eligible for TA project proceeds, not only could the slow
disbursement problem be solved, but the Bank's involvement and contribution to the reform and
poverty reduction process in China could also be widened.
(b)  Coordination and monitoring of subproject implementation are critical for the success of
the technical assistance project. Coordination needs to be undertaken by a government agency
that can effectively work closely with various government agencies and assign qualified staff to
the activity. For better monitoring of the subproject implementation, the simple report format
and/or a checklist designed to identify problems in implementation, which were successfully used
in earlier projects, have been supplemented by the guidelines and manuals, which can be found in
the PIP. These include: MOF Implementation Guidelines for TCP IV Project, MOF Financial
Administration and Settlement for TCP IV Project, and MOF Disbursement Regulations for TCP
IV Project. All PIAs will be given a full set of these documents upon approval of the subproject
for smooth implementation.
(c)  A thorough understanding on the use of consultants and the procurement process will
benefit PIAs. Such training should be undertaken at the time of project launch workshops, before
PIAs will start using funds to prepare projects. The Bank, MOF, and the project management
agency should make greater effort in familiarizing the staff of the PIAs with the Bank's
procurement procedures, especially those for consultants, when assisting them with project
preparation. The Bank's Procurement Officer for the proposed project is based at RMC, which
enables the Bank to provide immediate support to the clients.
(d)  Training activities will have much greater impact if identified needs are incorporated into
project design. Design of training activities should start at a very early stage. A training needs



- 12 -
assessment has been completed for the proposed Project, which went through a careful review of
the set-up and need for training.
In addition to lessons learned in China, lessons learned from projects in other countries, which
include simplicity in project design and institutional arrangements (Brazil), flexibility but greater
discipline in project implementation (Uganda), and close attention by the borrower and the Bank
to implementation, particularly through the use of realistic performance indicators (Mauritania),
have been taken into consideration during the preparation of the proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower's commitment and ownership:
A clear indication of the borrower's commitment is demonstrated by: (a) the spending of
substantial local funds every year on reform oriented activities; (b) the preparation of a series of
rules and regulations to facilitate smooth implementation of the project (e.g. MOF
Implementation Guidelines for TCP IV Project, MOF Financial Administration and Settlement
for TCP IV Project, and MOF Disbursement Regulations for TCP IV Project); (c) completed
eleven proposals of high priority subprojects, (d) the recent approval of this project by the State
Council, (e) the recruitment of a full time project coordinator paid by MOF, and (f) the
commitment in government budgets for the counterpart funding for project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support for this project adds value in several different ways to the GOC programs in this
project. Firstly, the Bank will add value to the GOC initiative to strengthen reform institutions by
communicating lessons of international experience about macroeconomic modeling and the
management of enterprises and institutions. Secondly, the Bank will strengthen the GOC
initiative to strengthen poverty reduction and rural development by providing training to staff
members and facilitating the purchase of related equipment. Thirdly, the Bank will strengthen the
GOC initiative to improve project preparation by communicating international best practice to the
staff engaged in the preparation of sustainable development projects. Moreover, as a result of
spillover effects springing from the project design, the Bank will increase its involvement in, and
contribution to, the reform process. Finally, the project will help improve, both qualitatively and
quantitatively, the preparation of sustainable development projects, thereby contributing to the
achievement of the CAS goal.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
Not Applicable.
2. Financial
Not Applicable.
3. Technical
Not Applicable
4. Institutional
(a)  Executing agencies:



- 13 -
MOF will be responsible for the overall coordination, management and supervision of the project
implementation. Being the key counterpart of the Bank operations in China in the past two
decades, MOF has extensive experience in managing Bank-financed projects.
(b)  Project management:
The Project Management Office (PMO) of MOF will be headed by the Director General of the
International Affairs Department of MOF. The directors of TAHRD and FSD will assist the
Director General in managing the project. TAHRD has designated a project manager. A full-time
project coordinator will be appointed to the division not later than 9/30/99 to provide support to
the overall project manager. FSD will designate a project accounting manager to maintain the
accounts for the entire project. A disbursement officer and a cashier will work under the
accounting manger and provide reporting information on project monitoring indicators, project
accounts and procurement status to the overall project manager and project accounting manager.
5. Social
The project has paid special attention to social issues, poverty alleviation in particular, in design
and sub-project selection. A majority of sub-projects identified were directly related to poverty
alleviation or located in poor and underdeveloped provinces. This has been addressed more in
detail in Annex 2.
6. Environmental assessment
Environmental category:   []   A    []   B    [x]  C
This project will have no discernible environmental impact. The Bank does not propose to
finance any land acquisition or building construction. Environmental clearance has been obtained
and is on file.
7. Participatory Approach
(a)  Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are staff of the institutions involved in GOC's reform
agenda, the staff of the provincial and local government agencies, and staff involved in
sustainable development project preparation. During project preparation, the Bank mission had
extensive discussions with representatives of the China Academy of Social Sciences, National
School of Administration, China Academy of Sciences and representatives from provinces who
will participate in Bank-funded poverty alleviation and sustainable development projects. The
design of each project component reflects the needs and ideas of the beneficiaries. Their
representatives will also oversee project implementation to ensure that the project is carried out to
meet its objectives.
(b)  Other key stakeholders:
Universities and specialized training centers, which provide training programs in
economic/financial analysis and project management, are limited stakeholders. These groups have
been involved in the project preparation. The Bank's project team has had discussions with
representatives of Tsinghua University Project Management Training Network and MOF Public
Financial Training Network for their coordination during the project implementation period.



- 14 -
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will depend on: (a) effective project management arrangements to ensure
high quality of project formulation, preparation and implementation; (b) effective participation of
beneficiaries in government reform agenda during or beyond project implementation period; (c)
PFBs and PIAs continue to play an important role in the management of Bank and other donor
agencies financed projects and the personnel trained remain at their position for relatively longer
period of time; (d) satisfactory financial arrangements for counterpart funding, and (e) adequate
local government support. These elements have been incorporated in the project design to ensure
the sustainability of the project.
2. Critical Risks
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective:
There is almost no risk in this regard,  M          Careful project design creates a
according to the design of the project and the      direct connection between project
nature of the project, outputs are almost the       object objectives and project
equivalent of objectives.                           outputs.
From Components to Outputs:
Delays could occur in identifying and   M           Advance preparation of subprojects
preparing suitable subprojects for these sub-       will help minimize the risk of
components.                                         delays in initial implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), and N (Negligible or Low
Risk)
3. Possible Controversial aspects
Not applicable
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness
Standard.
2. Other
(a)  MOF shall employ not later than 9/30/99 and thereafter maintain a full-time Project
coordinator with terms of reference and qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
(b)  MOF shall at all times continues to maintain a Project Management Office headed by the
Director-General of the International Affairs Dept. to be responsible for ensuring overall
management and supervision of the project and coordination of the PIAs.
(c)  Selection of subprojects should comply with the following criteria: (i) the subproject is of
high priority to the Borrower; (ii) subprojects under Part A of the project is designed to support
the Borrower's economic and structural reform program; (iii) the PIA has the organization,



- 15 -
management, staff and other resources required for the efficient and effective implementation of
the Subproject; and (iv) the subproject's implementing agency has an appropriate financial
management system for the Subproject.
(d)  MOF will make the project proceeds available to each PIA on financial terms acceptable to
the Bank.
(e)  Annual Implementation Plan will be sent by the PIAs to MOF by Nov. 30 each year, for
consolidation and forwarding to the Bank.
(f)   The Borrower shall prepare, under the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank the semi-annual progress reports, no later than February 28 and August 31 in
each calendar year.
(g)  A mid-term report will be compiled no later than December 31, 2001. This report will
integrate the results of monitoring and evaluation activities of the project performance during the
period preceding the date of this report, and recommends measures to ensure efficient project
implementation so as to achieve the project objectives during the period following the date of the
report.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been discussed and found realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
A-, LM; sLeIV &
Shenhua Wang
Task Team Leader
Tna  lanuelya,Ktinc
Sec,drMaagetMirector (Acting)
ukon Huang 7 /$7
Country Manager/Director



- 16 -
Annex 1
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance          Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goals:                                                (Goal to Bank Mission)
(a) sustainable         (a) continuous growth in  (a) statistics on macro    (a) GOC will carry out
macroeconomic growth    national per capita GDP;   economic indicators;  research and establish
and market oriented GOC                                                  models for economic
institutional reform;   (b) strengthening       (b) statistics on income    forecasting, environment
institutions involved in    and living standards;  protection and disaster
(b) poverty alleviation,  GOC's economic                                reduction, even without
improvement in          development and reform   (c) statistics on economic  project funding;
environmental protection,  program;             losses caused by natural
and disaster reduction.                         disasters.              (b) GOC implements
(c) lower the percentage                        special programs for
of population living in                         targeted poverty groups.
absolute poverty;
(d) reducing economic
losses caused by natural
disasters.



- 17 -
Project Development                                                      (Objectives to Goal)
Objective:
To provide continued    (a) increased involvement  (a) comparing the policy   (a) research institutions
support to GOC in its   and contribution of      recommendation and      will be able to give sound
economic and structural    institutions to GOC   economic forecasts of   recommendations, and
reform effort.          economic reform agenda;  subproject institutions  base economic policies
with the actual outcomes; on scientific studies;
(b) improved efficiency in
project management and   (b) performance of      (b) staff at PFBs/PIAs
administration at       subproject PFBs and PIAs; responsible for project
provincial levels;                               management and
(c) revision of CAS based  implementation are
(c) increased exchange of  on the emerging situation  trained;
information on GOC's    in China and newly
economic reform and     proposed projects;       (c) under the rapidly
support need, as well as                         changing situations in
increased contribution of  (d) performance of    China, GOC will get
the Bank to GOC's reform  projects prepared with  prompt and effective
efforts;                Bank support.           response from donor
agencies, such as the
(d) sound preparation of                         Bank;
projects.
(d) all projects selected
are key projects and are
of the highest priorities,
such as minimizing
bottlenecks.



- 18 -
Outputs:                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
(a) establishment of a   (a) subproject completion   (a) continued attention
(a) developing a national   national economic     report and periodic review   will be paid by GOC to
economic forecasting     forecasting system;       of economic forecasts;    the economic forecasts to
system;                                                                     decide relevant economic
(b) more economic and    (b) comparison of        policies;
(b) institutional support for  structural reform activities  economic losses caused by
economic reform and      undertaken;               natural disasters before    (b) actions are taken by
economic development;                              and after the establishment related GOC agencies to
(c) establishment of     of the model;            improve environment and
(c) establishing         demonstrative regional                             reduce disasters damages;
demonstrative regional   models for disaster       (c) statistics on staff of
models for disaster      prevention and control;    PFBs/PIAs and other     (c) PFBs and PIAs
prevention and control;                            subproject agencies      continue to play an
(d) more staff at PFBs,    trained and the number of  important role in the
(d) institutional support for PIAs and subproject  training text books      management of Bank
PFBs and PIAs;           agencies trained in       developed;               financed projects and the
relevant areas, and                               personnel trained remain
(e) sound project        training courses          (d) subproject semi-annual at their position for
preparation and staff    developed;                progress reports, and    relatively longer period of
training for projects related                      statistics on personnel  time.
to sustainable           (e) satisfactory feasibility  training.
development.             study reports and                                  (d) the trained staff
procurement                                       continue to work on
documentation prepared,                           project preparation to be
training courses and                              financed by the Bank or
seminars held.                                    any other sources.
Project Components/      Inputs                    For all components:      (Components to Outputs)
Sub-components (see                                                         For all components:
Annex 2 for project      (a) Total project cost    (a) borrower will regularly
description):            (US$66.8 million)         monitor the              (a) counterpart fund and
implementation of        effective administrative
A. Reform Support and    (b) IDA Credit and        subproject components;    support are to be provided
Institutional Development;  IBRD loan (US$45.0                              by GOC promptly and
million)                 (b) semi-annual progress   consistently;
B. Preinvestment and                               report will be prepared to
Project Preparation      (c) Counterpart funds     cover the status of project  (b) effective
Support.                 from GOC (US$21.8        implementation and        implementation is to be
million)                 highlighting issues;     carried out by all
subproject entities.
(c) the Bank will execute a
mid-term review of the
project in the second half
of 2001 to review the
implementation issues and
revise project design to
meet changing needs.



- 19 -
Annex 2
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Detailed Project Description
Overall
The Project consists of two components: (a) Reform Support and Institutional Development
(Component A); and (b) Preinvestment and Project Preparation Support (Component B).
Component A -- Reform Support and Institutional Development (RSID), aims at the
strengthening of institutions involved in GOC's economic policies based on GOC's priorities,
providing support to programs associated with policy reform, and strengthening of the capacity of
PFBs/PIAs to manage implementation of Bank and non-Bank financed projects involved in
fostering sustainable development. This component of the project has been evaluated to cost
US$34.6 million (US$22.6 million of SDR equivalent, and US$12.0 million GOC).
Component B -- Preinvestment and Project Preparation Support (PPPS), finances consultants'
services, training, and equipment required for the preparation of feasibility studies of projects, has
been evaluated to cost US$32.2 million (US$ 12.5 million of SDR equivalent, US$9.9 million
IBRD loans, and US$9.8 million GOC).
The sub-projects prepared in advance and the future sub-projects shall all be selected according to
the following criteria and procedures:
Selection Criteria:
e  the Subproject is a high priority for the Borrower;
e  the Subproject is designed to support the Borrower's economic and structural reform
program;
*  the PIA has the organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient
and effective carrying out of the Subproject; and
*  the PIA has a suitable financial management system for the Subproject.
Procedures
The MOF shall submit proposal for each sub-project to the Bank for review and approval. The
proposal shall include the following information:
* description of the proposed subproject, including a time schedule for, the purposes and
objectives of, and the benefits expected from the subproject;
*  description of the role of the PIA and staff responsible for the subproject;
* description of the proposed expenditures, including an estimate of foreign and local costs for
the proposed subproject, detailed expenditure breakdown by items, counterpart financing and
an estimated disbursement schedule;



- 20 -
*  general description of the arrangements to be made by the PIA for the provision of office
space, facilities, transportation and other operational facilities for the subproject;
*  proposed selection procedures, qualifications, terms of reference and duration of service for
any consultants to be engaged for the purposes of the subproject; and other information
reasonably requested by the Bank.
Sub-projects selected:
So far, eleven subprojects have been appraised and are in advanced stage of preparation under
Component A. These include:
(i) Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS). As part of China's economic and structural
reform effort, macro-economic analysis and forecast is being improved. The Institute of
Quantitative and Technical Economics (IQTE) of CASS initiated, in 1991, a project entitled
"China's Economic Analysis and Forecast". By 1998, the project had achieved all of its
objectives. Among the achieved objectives are the following: (a) China's Macro-economic
Annual Model became one of the most authoritative models for China's economic analysis and
forecast; (b) from 1995 onwards, IQTE developed China's Macro-economic Quarterly model,
which was used to provide tentative quarterly analysis and forecast reports; (c) an 8-sector model
was established to study the relations between industrial policies and economic growth in China;
(d) regional models were explored, among which the Beijing Economic Model was completed
and used for drafting Beijing's 1996-2010 economic development strategy; (e) several important
conferences were held, including the "International Conference on Market Economy and China"
(1993); the "International Conference on China's Economy in the Year 2000" (1994); the
"International Conference on the Theory of the Firm and China's Economic Reforms" (1996); the
"International Conference on China's Economic Growth" (1997). Many important people
attended at least one of these conferences, including: Nobel Economic Prize Laureates; and
internationally famous economists.
The two models developed by IQTE, China's Macro-economic Annual Model and the
Macro-economic Quarterly Model, are in urgent need of further improvement, especially given
current changes in the global economic environment caused by the Asian financial crisis and
domestic economic restructuring. CASS, with the support of the project, will seek to improve the
accuracy of the forecasting models, set up a sectoral model, establish series of models to conduct
comprehensive forecasting on economic development, and strengthen analysis and forecasting on
technological progress. The project will provide funding for the cost of further data collection
and surveys in several areas, technical input from international experts to improve the quality of
the model, overseas training, attendance at international conferences, and purchase of larger
capacity computers with relevant software. Specific goals include: (a) to further improve the
annual and quarterly models by switching the annual model from supply-oriented to both a
supply- and demand-oriented model, and the quarterly model to a demand-oriented model; (b) to
fully use the UN LINK model system, linking China's model with the system to analyze the
interaction between China's economy and the world economy; (c) to establish China's sectoral
model and to be able to analyze and forecast key sectors of China's economy; (d) to establish a
model system comprised of the long run forecasting model, the annual econometric model, the
general equilibrium model and the quarterly adjustment model so as to comprehensively forecast
China's economy; (e) to strengthen the analysis and forecast of technical progress and publish an
annual report on China's technology and sustainable development.



- 21 -
(ii) China National School of Administration (CNSA): As part of China's economic and
structural reform effort, CNSA is training highly ranked civil servants and the managing staff of
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in modem economic theory and management methods. CNSA
was formally established in September 1994. Up to January 1999, CNSA had established five
academic departments (Department of Public Administration; Department of Leadership;
Department of Economic Management; Department of Law; Department of Political Theories)
which have offered training programs for some 400 leaders at ministerial level, 900 departmental
directors, 250 leaders of large SOEs and 300 civil servants from Hong Kong and Macao.
The current objectives are to strevngthen the capacity of CNSA to develop a training
curricula of market economic courses, and to promote the construction and development of the
nation-wide civil servants training system. Specific project objectives include: (a) training the
teaching staff to receive training on integrating cutting-edge economic and managerial theory
with the most recent practices in China; (b) making a comparative study on different market
economy systems in the world with the objective of drawing out lessons for reform in China; (c)
conducting an overall comparative study on the economic-management function of governments
in market economies with the objective of drawing out lessons for the appropriate role of China's
government; (d) introducing the latest technology and equipment for training programs, as well as
equipment managers.
(iii) Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS): One of the priority needs of the GOC is to enhance
their disaster warning capability and establish demonstrative regional models for disaster
prevention and reduction. Two agencies within CAS, the Center for Disaster Reduction (CDR)
and the Institute of Atmospheric Physics (IAP) have been collaborating for many years in the area
of disaster prevention. The following are some of the major accomplishments: (a) establishment
of a China Strategy for Disaster Prevention and Reduction; (b) establishment of a "China
Atmosphere-Hydrosphere Synthetic Scientific System on Disaster Reduction" which has been
operating for two years and has reduced total economic losses by 1.6 billion yuan RMB; (c)
organization of study groups to several countries and international conferences; (d) start of
publishing quarterly journals in 1991 in Chinese (Disaster Reduction in China) and English
(Natural Disaster Reduction in China); (e) organization of several international conferences in
China on disaster reduction.
Since the destructive flooding in 1998, flood warning and prevention for the purpose of
reducing economic losses have become extremely urgent.  In fact, disaster warning and
prevention have now assumed a more important role in China. The project will enhance GOC's
disaster warning capability in the following concrete ways to: (a) provide funding to cover the
cost of data collection and investigation in several regions for the purpose of establishing
demonstrative regional models for disaster prevention and reduction; (b) solicit technical input
from international experts for improving the quality of the demonstrative regional models for
disaster prevention and reduction; (c) provide funding for relevant Chinese scholars to pursue
overseas training and attend international conferences; (d) provide funding for the purchase of
larger capacity computers with software which will facilitate the establishment of demonstrative
regional models for disaster prevention and reduction.
(iv) Guizhou Provincial Government: To support the Guizhou Province, one of the least
developed provinces in China, in its economic and structural reforms and also to strengthen
agencies involved in poverty reduction and rural development.
By the end of 1998, there were 36.576 million people living in Guizhou Province. Forty-
eight counties in Guizhou (containing 2.74 million people) are classified as poverty-stricken.
Economic development, while continuous and stable, has been very slow. This is partly because



- 22 -
the province is mountainous and hilly (covering 93.5% of the total land). And, it is also because
the economy has been slow to modernize its economic base of traditional grain production, much
less diversify. However, the province has abundant natural resources, especially in the areas of
energy, minerals and biological resources (for instance, Chinese medical herbs). The government
has attached great importance to undertaking economic and structural reforms and has now
developed the following objectives: (a) summarizing international research on poverty, especially
in areas with similarities to Guizhou, with the objective of drawing out lessons for Guizhou; (b)
assessing the market potential of natural biological resources in Guizhou and subsequently using
techniques of market analysis to estimate demand. The natural biological resources include, but
are not limited to, the following: livestock products; tea; traditional Chinese medicinal products.
This research, in turn, will be used to develop plans for adjusting and optimizing industrial
development in Guizhou through the development of processing industries; (c) undertaking
research on the role of urbanization in industrialization. Particular attention will be paid to
adopting government structures in a city and a county to better serve a market economy. The
results of this research will be used as a basis to undertake further governmental reform in
Guizhou Province and also to foster sustainable economic development; (d) researching the
relationship between human capital development and industrial development, paying attention to
the training provided in training centers and schools. The results of this research will be used to
better link the development (supply) of human capital with the industrial demand for human
capital; (e) drawing upon international expertise to formulate "The Overall Plan of Developing
Specialty Sectors in Guizhou". The objective of this item is to use modern techniques of
economic analysis to identify the areas in which Guizhou has comparative and competitive
advantages and initiate the development of these industries. Areas currently under consideration
include the following: tourism; power (water and coal); The Guizhou Provincial Government will
take responsibility for ensuring that this plan is actually put into practice.
In sum, the study will cover two parts, a master plan of poverty alleviation for Guizhou
and a pilot study on the county and city government reform. The Bank will provide funding for
both foreign and local experts, domestic and overseas training, attendance to international
conferences, establishment of computers network and relevant software.
(v) Shaanxi Yangling Demonstration Zone: To promote the scientific and technological
development of agricultural production in the Shaanxi Yangling Demonstration Zone for the
purpose of alleviating poverty in Central and Western China, particularly the Northwest. The
Yangling Demonstration Zone itself was established in 1997 and is the sole demonstration zone
of agricultural high technology industries in China. Given the newness of the Demonstration
Zone, there are few concrete results to report. However, there is much importance placed on the
zone and there is also corresponding promise. The central government and the Shaanxi
provincial government have both devoted significant resources to the development of this zone.
Moreover, the zone plays a key role in government plans to reduce poverty in Northwest China.
Specific objectives include: (a) establishing the Yangling Agricultural Science and
Technology Information Network, which will be used to promote the fast and effective exchange
of agricultural information, as well as the application of agricultural information in agricultural
education, scientific research, experiment demonstration, technology promotion, and system
reform; (b) facilitating the use of international consultants, especially to set up agricultural data
base and holding of seminars; (c) enabling the purchase of network equipment and system
software, as well as other expenses regarding the establishment of a network center; (d)
supporting overseas training for staff of the Yangling Demonstration Zone for the purpose of
deepening their understanding of high-technology agricultural production in advanced industrial
countries.



- 23 -
(vi) Provincial Offices for Poverty Alleviation and Development: The objective of this subproject
is to strengthen the capacity of provincial agencies under the SCLG Office for Poverty
Alleviation and Development to alleviate poverty in China. In 1994, the State Council
promulgated and implemented the "8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan", which set the explicit target of
basically feeding and clothing the rural poor by the year 2000. Since 1994, the SCLG Office for
Poverty Alleviation and Development has mobilized societal resources and spear-headed a
national effort to reduce hard-core poverty. By the end of 1997, these efforts had resulted in a
decrease of the destitute poor by 50 million. At the same time, agricultural production and
infrastructure conditions in the country's poor areas had been significantly improved.
One of the areas of greatest need in the war against poverty is the establishment and
improvement of grass-roots poverty eradication agencies. While some were established in the
1980s, the conditions of these agencies remain extremely backward. This project will pilot an
upgrade of eight provincial poverty reduction offices. Specific methods of improving these eight
provincial poverty reduction offices include: (a) procuring basic equipment, such as computers,
printers, and fax machines; (b) establishing an internet network connection between the project
provinces and all of the country-level poor counties in these provinces; (c) organizing training
and study tours so as to enhance the quality of the staff in the poverty reduction offices; (d)
upgrading training facilities and faculty capacity of the poverty reduction offices to intensify their
guidance and management for poverty reduction and development programs at prefecture and
county levels; (e) carrying out unannounced poverty studies on the effective way to implement
poverty reduction and development work.
(vii) Five Provincial Finance Bureaus (PFBs): In order to enhance the work of poverty
alleviation, it is necessary to develop and strengthen the capacity of PFBs in less developed areas
to undertake and implement Bank and non-Bank financed projects related to poverty alleviation.
This project has selected five such PFBs: Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region PFB; Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region PFB; Yunnan PFB; Henan PFB and Hebei PFB. These PFBs have
much less experience than most other PFBs in carrying out internationally-informed and
internationally-funded poverty alleviation projects because they are situated in remote areas and
are more constrained by fiscal resources.
Specific project objectives include: (a) purchasing of equipment and software to establish a
more modern financial system in each of the PFBs; (b) facilitating the training of PFB staff in the
areas of project management; disbursement and procurement; (c) familiarizing PFB staff with
risk management, financial analysis, and cost-benefit analysis; (d) Supporting workshops and
conferences on topics of financial management; (e) funding project-related study tours.
(viii) In addition, discussions have been held on Minority Education Research and Development
in Yunnan Province. This Subproject will be finalized upon receipt of detailed cost estimates
from Yunnan Province. Yunnan is a province with more than 52 ethnic groups in 50 minority
poor counties and as a result ethnic minorities account for more than 33% of Yunnan's
population. The development of minority education is essential to the overall economic and social
development of the minority communities. This sub-project aims at helping the Yunnan
Provincial Education Commission carry out studies of minority education for the next century,
and disseminate the best practice from summarizing past successful experiences. The sub-project
have three components: (a) the research of overall provincial minority education development
strategy in Yunnan for the next century; (b) the study and dissemination of cost-effective
measures in establishing and operating minority boarding schools with students from the most
remote and poorest minority areas; and (c) the writing and publication of text books in minority
languages for schools and the training of bilingual teachers. This sub-project covers about 10
minority poor counties in the province.



- 24 -
Subprojects under consideration include: Study on Corporate Governance of Large-Sized SOEs
and Technical Assistance on Transformation of Agriculture Bank of China.
Potential projects under Component B are listed below:
(i)  Sustainable Forestry
(ii) Water Conservation Project
(iii) Flood Control Program
(iv) Hebei Water Supply & Environment
(v)  Beijing Environment II
(vi) Jiangxi Agriculture Development II
(vii) Semi-Arid Lands Development
(viii) Huai River Basin Pollution Control II
(ix) Sub-projects to be selected



- 25 -
Annex 3
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Project Cost Estimates
The total project costs are estimated at US$66.7 million with a foreign exchange cost of US$40.7
million, or 61 percent of the total. Cost estimates are based on quantities derived from the
preliminary designs, the unit prices currently prevailing in project areas, and prices of local
markets for equipment. The base cost estimates of US$66.1 million are expressed in end 1998
prices and the exchange rate used to convert base cost estimates and physical contingencies is
Yuan 8.3 to US$ 1. Costs for the project have been based on prevailing CIF prices for imported
equipment in China, or ex-factory prices for locally available goods. Physical contingencies are
based on an average rate of 5% for equipment. Price contingencies for costs incurred in foreign
exchange are based on annual international price escalation rates of 1.3% for 1999, 2.5% for
2000; 2.7% for 2001; 2.6% for 2002; and 2.5% for 2003 and 2004. Price contingencies for costs
in Yuan are based on annual domestic price escalation rates of 0 percent for 1999, 3% for 2000,
and 5% for 2001-2004. No contingencies have been applied to costs under Sub-projects to Be
Selected and Preinvestment and Project Preparation Support component in light of the nature of
its line of credit. Project costs are summarized in Tables 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 below.
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs by Component
(US$ '000)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total Exchange  Costs
A. Reform Support and Institutional
Development
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences          259      470     729        64    1.1
National School of Administration           585       859   1,444       59    2.2
Chinese Academy of Sciences                 435      527    962         55    1.5
Hebei Bureau of Finance                     504      674   1,177        57    1.8
Guizhou Provincial Government              1,229    1,611   2,840       57   4.3
Shaanxi Yangling Demonstration Zone         766      735   1,501        49    2.3
Prov. Offices of Poverty Alleviation and Dev.  852    1,331   2,183     61    3.3
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region BOF        267      877   1,144        77    1.7
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region BOF        532      410    942         44    1.4
Yunnan Provincial BOF                       293      825   1,118        74    1.7
Henan Provincial BOF                        436      415     851        49    1.3
Sub-projects To Be Selected                8,804   10,209  19,013       54  28.8
Subtotal Reform Support and Institutional   14,962   18,943  33,905     56   51.3
Development
B. Preinvestment and Project Preparation    10,798   21,353  32,150       66  48.7
Support
Total Base Costs                        25,759   40,296  66,055       61  100.0
Physical Contingencies                       40       84    124         68    0.2
Price Contingencies                         222      303     525        58   0.8
Total Project Costs                     26,021   40,683  66,704       61  101.0



- 26 -
Table 3.2: Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure
(Yuan '000)          (US$ '000)         %      %
Foreign Total
Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Base
Cost
I. Investment Costs
A. Consultant Services
1. Senior Consultant                 - 122,347 122,347    - 14,741 14,741      100    22
2. Other Consultant              48,105 20,616 68,721  5,796  2,484 8,280       30    13
3. Research                       3,100  1,329  4,429   374    160   534        30      1
4. Other Research/Consultant     12,180  5,220 17,400  1,467    629 2,096       30     3
Subtotal Consultant Services     63,385 149,512 212,896 7,637  18,013 25,650    70    39
B. Training
1. Overseas Training/Study Tours     - 105,276 105,276     - 12,684 12,684     100    19
2. Domestic Training/Study Tours  6,622  2,838  9,461   798    342  1,140       30     2
3. Seminar, Workshop & Conference   1,742    747  2,488   210    90   300       30      -
4. Other training/meeting        13,025  5,582  18,607  1,569    673 2,242      30     3
Subtotal Training                21,389 114,443 135,832 2,577  13,788 16,365    84    25
C. Equipment
1. Computer                       1,614  6,456  8,070   194    778   972        80     1
2. Office Equipment              21,500 32,251  53,751  2,590  3,886 6,476      60    10
3. Other Equipment                4,184  6,276  10,460   504    756  1,260      60     2
4. Minor Equipment                  66    100    166      8      12    20       60      -
Subtotal Equipment               27,365 45,083 72,448 3,297  5,432 8,729        62    13
D. Miscellaneous Costs           101,663 25,416 127,079 12,249  3,062 15,311      20    23
Total Base Costs                  213,802 334,453 548,255 25,759 40,296 66,055    61   100
Physical Contingencies             331    698  1,029    40       84   124       68      -
Price Contingencies               1,827  2,371  4,198   222    303   525        58      1
Total Project Costs               215,960 337,522 553,482 26,021 40,683 66,704     61   101



- 27 -
Table 3.3: Estimated Project Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003   2004   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Consultant Services
1. Senior Consultant          1,186  2,545  4,339  3,974  1,363   1,363 14,769
2. Other Consultant             824  2,059  2,483  1,665   666    643  8,339
3. Research                     124    89   113   106   109        23    564
4. Other Research/Consultant    638   944   382   178    17         -  2,159
Subtotal Consultant Services  2,772  5,637  7,317  5,924  2,154  2,028 25,831
B. Training
1. Overseas Training/Study Tours  1,102  3,110  4,086  2,630   994    913 12,835
2. Domestic Training/Study Tours   133   342   328   173    86     86  1,148
3. Seminar, Workshop &            -   214    96       -      -      -   310
Conference
4. Other Training/Meeting       398   721   582   426   219         -  2,346
Subtotal Training             1,633  4,387  5,093  3,229  1,299    999 16,639
C. Equipment
1. Computer                     500   398   144       -      -      -  1X042
2. Office Equipment             540  1,207  1,947  1,550   625    625  6,494
3. Other Equipment              574   643    66    23    47         -  1,352
4. Minor Equipment               21      -      -     -      -      -    21
Subtotal Equipment            1,635  2,248  2,157  1,573   672    625  8,909
D. Miscellaneous Costs          1,112  2,618  4,569  3,951  1,540   1,534 15,325
Total Project Costs             7,153 14,889 19,136 14,676  5,665   5,186 66,704



- 28 -
Annex 4
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
[Not Applicable]
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial
Analysis       Analysis        Taxes          Subsidies
Project Costs
Summary of benefits and costs:
N/A
Main Assumptions:
N/A
Cost-effectiveness indicators
N/A



- 29 -
Annex 5
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Financial Summary
Year Ending December 31
(US$ million equivalent, base year 1998)
Implementation Period           Operational Period
Sources     Year Year Year Year Year Year Total % of Total Years % of
1    2    3    4    5   6           Total   7-20    Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs   6.4  13.4  17.2 13.2  5.1  4.7  60.0   90      20.0    15
Recurrent Costs    0.7  1.5  1.9  1.5  0.6  0.5  6.7   10        113.4    85
Total           7.2  14.9  19.1 14.7  5.7  5.2  66.7  100      133.4   100
Financing Sources /a
Government /b    2.5  4.7  6.1  4.9  1.9  1.7  21.8   33         133.4   100
IBRD /c          0.6  1.5  3.0  3.0  1.0  1.0  10.0   15             -     -
IDA /c           4.2  8.7  10.1  6.8  2.7  2.5  35.0   52            -
Total /d        7.3  14.9  19.1 14.7  5.7  5.2  66.8  100      133.4   100
Main Assumptions:
/a Financing plan is based on total project cost by year including contingencies plus a front-end
fee of US$0.1 million at 1 percent of IBRD loan amount.
/b Government financing includes funds from various sources at both center and local levels.
/c Bank financing includes US$10 million of IBRD loan and US$35 million equivalent of IDA
credit.
/d The totals may not tally due to rounding.



- 30 -
Annex 6
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
1. Procurement
(1)  Guidelines. The following Bank's Guidelines will be used in all Bank financed
procurement: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999), and Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). The Bank-approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents will be adopted for all
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for Goods,
where the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used. All Consultant assignments will follow
the Standard Request for Proposals - Selection of Consultants (dated April 1998). The Bank's
Standard Documents will be used where no relevant model document exists. Due to scattered
locations and various schedules of project implementation activities, each PIA may undertake and
manage its own procurement. The MOF will oversee and coordinate project procurement and will
be responsible for ensuring that the Bank's Guidelines and regulations are observed. The
procurement profile is shown in Table A.
(2)  Goods. The Project will require a total value of goods worth about US$8.9 million. To the
extent practicable, contracts for goods will be grouped into bid packages whenever possible to
attract competition and permit bulk purchasing. All contracts for goods costing US$200,000
equivalent or more will be awarded under ICB. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the
CIF price of imported goods, or the actual customs duties and taxes, whichever is less, will be
allowed to qualified domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures. As currently
projected, no goods will be procured under ICB procedures. All goods costing less than US$
200,000 but equivalent to US$100,000 or more for each contract will be procured through NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. These will include computers (US$0.4 million), office
equipment (US$0.1 million) and network equipment (US$0.6 million). The other goods (US$7.8
million) will be procured using national shopping procedures to include computers, office
equipment and other equipment in small patches. About US$20,000 worth of minor and small
equipment will be non-Bank funded.
(3)  Consultant services and Training. Consultant services and training worth US$42.4
million will be undertaken for the Project. Employment of consultants (US$23.6 million) will be
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers. "Quality- and Cost-Based Selection"(QCBS) procedures will be used for
consultants to be hired through a firm. Individual consultants will be employed in accordance
with the procedures applicable to individual consultants. All consulting contract expected to cost
more than US$200,000 will be advertised in Development Business. Training and study tours
(US$14.3 million) will cover the associated expenses for both domestic and overseas training,
study tours, seminars, workshops and conferences, and will be reimbursed based on programs
reviewed by MOF and agreed with the Bank. About US$2.2 million worth of consultant services
and US$2.3 million worth of training expenses will be funded by the GOC.
(4)  Other. About US$15.3 million worth of miscellaneous costs be funded entirely by the
government.



- 31 -
(5)  Thresholds and Review
a.   Prior Review. All ICB and NCB documents for goods will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Consultant services contracts costing US$ 100,000 or more for firms and
US$ 30,000 or more for individuals will require the Bank's prior review and no objection on
budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports, and
contracts. The details of prior review arrangement are provided in Table A6.2.
b.   Ex-post Review. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank's
supervision missions. It is expected that ex-post review will cover about 15 percent of all
contracts according to Bank guidelines. This arrangement will be assessed during the mid-term
review.
2. Disbursement
(6)  Disbursement of the loan/credit proceeds will be made against the following expenditure
categories and percentages: (a) goods, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; (b) consultant services and training, 100 percent of expenditures; and (c) front-end fee,
100 percent of fee at 1 percent of the IBRD loan amount payable on loan effectiveness. The
allocation of loan/credit proceeds is shown in Table A6.3.
(7)  To avoid delay in start-up of the Project, a retroactive financing of SDR150,000
(equivalent to US$0.2 million) is recommended to cover expenditure incurred between March 10,
1999 and the date of signing of the Loan/Credit Agreements. The following activities will be
most likely to be covered: consultant services, training/study tour, seminar and some minor office
equipment.
(8)  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan/Credit account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for goods costing less than
US$100,000; (b) training and study tour expenses; and (c) consultant services costing less than
US$100,000 for firms and less than US$30,000 for individuals. The supporting documents for
statements of expenditure will be retained by each PIA and made available for review by the
Bank's supervision missions. In the case of contracts for goods and consultant services above
these thresholds, disbursements will be made against the full documentation of the contracts
themselves and other supporting documents.
(9)  To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account in US dollars to be operated by the MOF will
be established in a bank and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Authorized
Allocation for the Special Account will be US$3 million, equivalent to the Bank's financing of
average expenditure for four months of the Project implementation period. Applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly or whenever the amount is drawn down to 50 percent of
its initial deposit, whichever comes first. The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 2004 and the Loan and Credit accounts are expected to close on December 31, 2005.



- 32 -
Table A6.1a: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method               Total Costc
ICB      NCB       Other      NBF
A. Reform Support and
Institutional Development
1. Consultant Services                             8.0      2.2           10.2
(8.0)    (0.0)         (8.0)
2. Training and Study Tours                        9.8      2.3           12.1
(9.8)    (0.0)         (9.8)
3. Goods                                 1.1       4.8      0.0            5.9
(1.1)     (3.6)    (0.0)          (4.7)
4. Miscellaneous                                            6.3            6.3
(0.0)         (0.0)
B. Preinvestment and
Project Preparation Support
1. Consultant Services                            15.7                    15.7
(15.7)                 (15.7)
2. Training and Study Tours                        4.5                     4.5
(4.5)                  (4.5)
3. Goods                                           3.0                     3.0
(2.3)                  (2.3)
4. Miscellaneous                                             9.0            9.0
(0.0)         (0.0)
Total                                     1.1       45.8    19.9           66.7
(1.1)    (43.8)    (             (44.9)
a Other procurement methods include shopping for periodicals and books, consultant services and
training.
bNBF denotes non-Bank-financed.
cTotal cost includes contingencies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan and IDA credit.



- 33 -
Table A6.1b: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                                 a                      Total
Expenditure                       Selection Method                      CostC
Category
QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ    Other  NBF
A. Firms            12.9                                           1.6        14.5
(12.9)                                          -         (12.9)
B. Individuals                                             10.6    0.7        11.3
(10.6)    -        (10.6)
Total         12.9                                   10.6    2.3        25.8
(12.9)                                 (10.6)    -        (23.6)
aQCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, QBS = Quality-based Selection, SFB = Selection under a
Fixed Budget, LCS = Least-Cost Selection, CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, Other =
Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.,
bNBF = Not Bank-financed.
cTotal cost includes contingencies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD loan and IDA credit.
Table A6.2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Estimated Total Value
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement          Subject to Prior
Category            (Threshold)            Methoda               Reviewb
(US$ thousand)                              (US$ million)
1. Goods                     >100                 NCB                     1.1
2. Consultant Services
> 100 for firms               TA                     5.4
>30 for individuals           TA                    3.0
Total                                                      9.5
Note:a NCB = National Competitive Bidding. TA denotes selection method specified in
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999).
bTotal value includes contingencies.



- 34 -
Table A6.3: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
IBRD      CDi    TOTAL    FINANCING PERCENTAGE
Loan      Credit
Expenditure Category    US$ m.   US$ m.    US$ m                  (%)
equivalent
100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
(1) Goods                 1.6       5.4        6.9    factory cost) and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(2) Consultant Services   8.3       29.6       38.0    100% of expenditures
and Training
(3) Front-end Fee         0.1                  0.1     1 00% of fee amount
Total            10.0      35.0       45.0



- 35 -
Annex 7
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                               Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)           07/15/1996          07/15/1996
Appraisal mission departure                   02/24/1999           02/24/1999
Negotiations                                  03/29/1999          03/29/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 09/01/1999
Prepared by: the MOF
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project:
Name                                   Specialty
Shenhua Wang                     Task Team Leader
Youhua Yu                        Senior Disbursement Specialist
Weiguo Zhou                      Operations Officer
Xiaowei Guo                      Procurement Specialist
Anthony Toft                     Senior Legal Counsel
Luiz Gazoni                      Procuremrent Unit Chief
Nicolette DeWitt                 Principal Legal Counsel
Tony Shen                        Senior Financial Management Specialist
Sandy Durham                     Financial Management Specialist
Patricia Brereton-Miller         Acting Country Program Coordinator for China
Yan Wang                         Team Assistant
David Rix                        Task Team Leader (before retirement in 1997)
Keiko Sato                       Operations Officer
Peer Reviewers for this project
Albert Howlett                   Program Coordinator
Richard Scurfield                Lead Specialist
Tom Tsui                         Program Coordinator
Albert Keidel                    Senior Economist



- 36 -
Annex 8
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Documents in the Project File
1.  Original Project Proposal submitted by Borrower
2.  Revised Project Proposal submitted by Borrower (March, 1999)
3.  Project Concept Document (1996)
4.  Comments on Project Concept Document (May, 1996)
5.  Draft Project Appraisal Document
6.  Terms of References for Pre-Appraisal (June, 1996)
7.  Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire (July, 1996)
8.  Draft Project Implementation Plan by Borrower (January 29, 1999)
9.  Project Implementation Plan revised by the Bank (March 20,1999)
10. Appraisal Mission TOR (Februaryl2, 1999)
12. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire (March 10, 1999)
13. Appraisal Completion Note(March 15, 1999)
14. Project Appraisal Document Package-Review and Decision (March 18, 1999)
15. Project Information Document (1996, 1997, 1998)
16. Procurement Capacity Assessment (April 1999)
17. Procurement Plan (March, 1999)
18. Environmental Impact Clarence
19. Cost tables (March, 1999)
20. (Signed) Minutes of Negotiations
21. Status of Negotiations
22. Exchange of Letters between the Bank and the Borrower reaching agreement on Reporting
Formats for Financial Management



- 37 -
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
A. Status of Bank Group Operations in China
Operations Portfolio
As of 19-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         CONTAINER TRANSPORT                      71.00        0.00        0.00              71.00         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-41890     1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         LIAONING URB TRANSP                     150.00        0.00        0.00             150.00         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-49665     1999   PRC                               ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                     90.00       30.00        0.00             119.03         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-50036     1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                    200.00        0.00        0.00             200.00         7.45        0.00
CN-PE-51856     1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                      27.40        5.61        0.00              32.96         1.36        0.00
CN-PE-63123     1999   PRC                               YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                     40.00       40.00        0.00              79.21         0.00        0.00
CN-PE-3539      1998   PRC                               SUST COAST RES DEV                      100.00        0.00        0.00              96.00         -.25        0.00
CN-PE-3566      1998                                     BASIC HEALTH                              0.00       85.00        0.00              81.99          .05        0.00
CN-PE-35698     1998   PRC                               HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                    300.00        0.00        0.00             300.00         9.00        0.00
CN-PE-3591      1998   PRC                               STATE FARMS COMMERCI                    150.00        0.00        0.00             102.59      -32.91         0.00
CN-PE-3606      1998   GOC                               ENERGY CONSERVATION                      63.00        0.00        0.00              63.00         2.87        0.00
CN-PE-3614      1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                    200.00        0.00        0.00             192.00         5.61        0.00
CN-PE-3619      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                   123.00        0.00        0.00             123.00        18.50        0.00
CN-PE-36414     1998   CHINA                             GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                       72.00       20.00        0.00              88.83        -1.20        0.00
CN-PE-36949     1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA         NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                         250.00        0.00        0.00             242.00        12.00        0.00
CN-PE-40185     1998   PRC                               SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                     95.00        0.00        0.00              92.00        21.75        0.00
CN-PE-45788     1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                      230.00        0.00        0.00             230.00        39.70        0.00
CN-PE-46563     1998   PRC                               TARIM BASIN II                           90.00       60.00        0.00             140.76         5.11        0.00
CN-PE-46952     1998   PRC                                FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                   100.00      100.00        0.00             200.81         8.50       17.00
CN-PE-49700     1998   PRC                                IAIL-2                                 300.00        0.00        0.00             280.00         3.30        0.00
CN-PE-51736     1998   GOC                               E. CIHINA/JIANGSU PWR                   250.00        0.00        0.00             250.00        92.38        0.00
CN-PE-56491     1998   PRC                               HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                          0.00       28.40        0.00              10.66        -9.81        0.00
CN-PE-34081     1997   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                    430.00        0.00        0.00             331.51        89.27        0.00
CN-PE-3590      1997   PRC                               QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                     30.00      150.00        0.00             148.35        23.88        0.00
CN-PE-3635      1997   PRC                               VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                     10.00       20.00        0.00              15.19         1.30        0.00
CN-PE-3637      1997   PRC                               NATL RUR WATER III                        0.00       70.00        0.00              62.10        10.38        0.00
CN-PE-36405     1997   PRC                               WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                    400.00        0.00        0.00             320.09         5.08        0.00
CN-PE-3643      1997   PRC                               XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                    300.00        0.00        0.00             230.72        57.72        0.00
CN-PE-3650      1997   GOC                               TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                    400.00        0.00        0.00             394.61      137.17         0.00
CN-PE-3654      1997   PRC                               HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                    400.00        0.00        0.00             336.64        86.62        0.00
CN-PE-36952     1997   PRC                               BASIC ED. IV                              0.00       85.00        0.00              41.37      -26.19         0.00
CN-PE-38988     1997   PRC                               HEILONGJIANG ADP                        120.00        0.00        0.00              93.02         8.38        0.00



- 38 -
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-44485     1997                                     SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                     400.00        0.00        0.00             400.00       53.05         0.00
CN-PE-34618     1996   PRC                               LABOR MARKET DEV.                        10.00       20.00        0.00              24.00       22.16         0.00
CN-PE-3507      1996   GOC                               ERTAN HYDRO II                          400.00        0.00        0.00              25.23      -22.55         0.00
CN-PE-3563      1996   PRC                               ANIMAL FEED                             150.00        0.00        0.00             138.78      110.45        18.79
CN-PE-3569      1996   P.R.C.                            SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                    260.00        0.00        7.75             110.73       32.49        22.50
CN-PE-3589      1996   PRC                               DISEASE PREVENTION                        0.00      100.00        0.00              69.06       58.11         0.00
CN-PE-3594      1996   PRC                               GANSU NEXI CORRIDOR                      60.00       90.00        0.00             125.65       26.19         0.00
CN-PE-3599      1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                 YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                      125.00       25.00        0.00             139.13       18.15         0.00
CN-PE-3602      1996   PRC                               HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                    125.00       25.00        0.00             123.98       76.31         0.00
CN-PE-3638      1996   PRC                               SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                     80.00       20.00        0.00              80.15       27.70         0.00
CN-PE-3646      1996   PRC                               CHONGQING IND POL CT                    170.00        0.00       77.99              91.22      102.45         0.00
CN-PE-3648      1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT                SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                    250.00        0.00        0.00             157.96       76.95         0.00
CN-PE-3649      1996   CHINA                             SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                      0.00      100.00        0.00              34.56       -8.05         0.00
CN-PE-3652      1996   PRC                               2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                    210.00        0.00        0.00             139.29       51.28         0.00
CN-PE-36950     1996   PRC                               BASIC ED. POOR III                        0,00      100.00        0.00              11.93      -20.76         0.00
CN-PE-40513     1996   PRC                               2ND HENAN PROV HWY                      210.00        0.00        0.00             175.14       51.14         0.00
CN-PE-3493      1995   PRC                               INLAND WATERWAYS                        420.00        0.00        0.00             275.02       -9.54         0.00
CN-PE-3571      1995   PRC                               RAILWAYS VII                            400.00        0.00       29.00             344.67      201.66        -2.97
CN-PE-3585      1995   GOC                               SHENYANG IND. REFORM                    175.00        0.00        0.00              97.54       49.74         0.00
CN-PE-3596      1995   PRC                               YANGTZE BASIN WATER                     100.00      110.00        0.00              35.28      -12.19         0.00
CN-PE-3598      1995                                     LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                    110.00        0.00        0.00              70.21       58.65         0.00
CN-PE-3600      1995   PRC                               TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                    200.00        0.00        0.00             125.74       43.65         0.00
CN-PE-3603      1995   PRC                               ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                    275.00       75.00       20.00             199.84      155.96         7.94
CN-PE-36041     1995   MOF                                FISCAL & TAX REF. &                     50.00       25.00        0.00              66.31       41.61         0.00
CN-PE-3612      1995   PRC                               XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                      150.00        0.00        0.00              47.85       37.86         0.00
CN-PE-3634      1995   PRC                               MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                      0.00       90.00        0.00              18.42         8.84        0.00
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                               BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                      0.00      100.00        0.00               3.39       -1.46         0.00
CN-PE-3639      1995   PRC                               SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                     95.00      200.00        0.00             143.78       32.70         0.00
CN-PE-3642      1995                                     ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                     400.00        0.00        0.00             136.50      -44.02         0.00
CN-PE-3647      1995   PRC                               ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                       0.00       10.00        0.00               5.51         5.59        0.00
CN-PE-36947     1995   GOC                               SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                    270.00        0.00        0.00             132.50      119.80        80.99
CN-PE-37156     1995   PRC                                IODINE DEF. DISORDER                     7.00       20.00        7.00               1.91        11.57        -.19
CN-PE-3502      1994   MOH                               RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                       0.00      110.00        0.00              29.62        24.07        0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                               HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                    380.00        0.00        0.00              48.65        15.63        0.00
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                               LOESS PLATEAU                             0.00      150.00        0.00              27.96      -23.21         0.00
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                                FOREST RESOURCE DEV                      0.00      200.00        0.00              40.47       13.01       -32.36
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                 460.00        0.00        0.00                 .83         .83        0.00
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                               SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                    160.00        0.00        0.00              62.73       57.29         0.00
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                               SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                        0.00      205.00        0.00              25.39      -12.80         0.00
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                               RED SOILS II DEVELOP                      0.00      150.00        0.00              40.36        16.45        0.00
CN-PE-3609      1994   GOC                               SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION          255.00        0.00        0.00             122.62       71.13         0.00
CN-PE-3622       1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP IT                         150.00        0.00        0.00               7.36         7.37        0.00
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                                FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                    140.00        0.00        0.00              58.63       36.62         8.35
CN-PE-3633      1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                 TELECOMMUNICATIONS                      250.00        0.00       30.00              15.27        45.27        0.00
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                               YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                    350.00        0.00        0.00              74.09       57.77         0.00
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                   0.00      110.00        0.00              25.56         8.87        0.00
CN-PE-3473      1993   P.R.C.                            ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                      0.00      110.00        0.00              19.79       19.17         0.00
CN-PE-3512      1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C         SHANGHAI PORT REST.                     150.00        0.00       25.74               3.88       29.10         2.86



- 39 -
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                               GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT             240.00        0.00        0.00               2.08        -.94        0.00
CN-PE-3533      1993                                     TIANJIN IND. II                       150.00        0.00       40.35              13.59       44.43        7.93
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                              AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                     0.00      115.00        0.00              10.41       -1.50        0.00
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                               SICHUAN ADP                              0.00     147.00         0.00              5.49        0.00         0.00
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                               EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                     0.00     100.00        0.00               9.59        7.98         8.04
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                               RAILWAY VI                            420.00        0.00        0.00              94.61       93.62        0.00
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                               SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.          250.00        0.00        0.00               4.15        -.31        0.00
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                               HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                 120.00        0.00         0.00              9.59        9.60         0.00
CN-PE-3592      1993   PRC                               REF. INST'L.& PREINV                    0.00       50.00        0.00              18.47       18.48        0.00
CN-PE-3597      1993   PRC                               TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  100.00      100.00        0.00              47.43       43.08        0.00
CN-PE-3616      1993   PRC                               TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                   300.00         0.00        0.00             65.95       49.37         0.00
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                               FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                    0.00       60.00        0.00              19.16       16.21        0.00
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                               GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                  325.00      165.00         0.00            325.46      322.19       86.20
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                               ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                     0.00      50.00         0.00             10.71       11.06          .03
CN-PE-3503      1992                                     ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                  310.00         0.00        0.00              7.79        7.80         0.00
CN-PE-3534      1992   PRC                               ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                  220.00         0.00        0.00             19.91       19.92       12.42
CN-PE-3564      1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY              BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                    45.00       80.00         0.00             25.28       20.02         8.32
CN-PE-3565      1992                                     SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                     0.00      60.00         1.69              1.32        -.08         0.00
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                            TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                     0.00     100.00         0.00             18.33       15.24       -2.50
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH               INFECTIOUS DISEASES                     0.00      129.60         0.00             31.49       26.83       26.79
Total                                                                                       14,868.40   3,995.61       239.52          10,014.74   3,002.08       270.14
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               8,558.59           12,529.50          21,088.09
Of which has been repaid:                  73.75           2,515.23            2,588.98
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              18,550.68            9,648.52          28,199.20
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :           10,014.74               21.95          10,036.69
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



- 40 -
China
B. STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval               Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi
0                      Pacific Ports               0.00     3.64     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.64     0.00
1987/92/94               China Bicycles             8.50     3.39     0.00     0.00     8.50     3.39     0.00
1993                     Shenzhen PCCP              3.76      .99     0.00     0.00     3.76      .99     0.00
1993                     Yantai Cement             13.51     1.95     0.00     7.22    13.51     1.95     0.00
1994                     China Walden JV            0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.53     0.00
1994                     China Walden Mgt           0.00      .01     0.00     0.00     0.00      .01     0.00
1994                     Dalian Glass              20.50     2.40     0.00    40.50    20.50     2.40     0.00
1994                     Dynamic Fund               0.00    12.35     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.08     0.00
1994/97                  PTP Leshan                12.20     1.00     0.00    16.00    12.20     1.00     0.00
1995                     Dupont Suzhou             23.36     4.15     0.00    46.80    23.36     4.15     0.00
1995                     Newbridge Inv.             0.00     7.19     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.89     0.00
1995                     Suzhou PVC                22.00     2.48     0.00    22.20    22.00     2.48     0.00
1996                     Beijing Hormel             5.00      .50     0.00     5.50     5.00      .50     0.00
1996                     Jingyang                  40.00     0.00     0.00   100.00    40.00     0.00     0.00
1996                     NanjingKumho              16.00     3.81     0.00    45.50    13.63     3.81     0.00
1996                     Tianjin Kumho             11.17     0.00     0.00    33.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                     Weihai Weidongri           4.11     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.11     0.00     0.00
1997                     Ningbo                     0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00
1997                     Orient Finance            13.33     0.00     0.00    16.67    13.33     0.00     0.00
1997                     PTP Hubei                 12.63     0.00     0.00    25.38    10.96     0.00     0.00
1997                     Rabobank PTPC              2.40     0.00     0.00     2.40     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     Caltex Ocean              21.00     0.00     0.00    45.00    13.68     0.00     0.00
1998                     Chengxin-IBCA              0.00      .36     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     Rabobank SHFC              2.75     0.00     0.00     2.75     2.25     0.00     0.00
1998                     Zhen Jing                  0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                      232.22    54.22     0.00   408.92   206.79    45.82     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998                     CHENGDU CHEMICAL           7.40     3.20     0.00     8.60
1997                     CHINEFARGE                12.80     0.00     0.00    20.00
1998                     EURECA                     0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     JIANGSU COLINE             6.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     LESHAN SCANA               6.10     1.35     0.00     0.00
1997                     NISSAN/DONGFENG           20.20     0.00     0.00    27.00
1998                     ORIENT FIN A INC           3.33     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                     PTP HOLDINGS               0.00     1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                     SHANGHAI KRUPP            30.00     0.00     0.00    78.44
1997                     SMC                       14.00     0.00     0.00    14.00
1996                     TIANJIN                    9.10     0.00     0.00     9.10
1998                     WUHAN CIG                  0.00     1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                     WUHAN PORT                 5.00     0.00     0.00     5.00
1998                     XIB                       50.00    20.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     ZHEJIANG COLINE            6.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     ZHEN JING                  4.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             175.43    30.55     0.00   162.14



- 41 -
Annex 10
China at a Glance
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia &   middle- 
China    Pacific  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millionsj                    1.227.2     1,753     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Aflas method, US$)                    860       970      1,230
GNP (Atls method, US$ billions)                    1,055.4     1,707     2.818
Average annual growth, 1991.97
Population (%)                                         t,1       1.3       1.2
Labor force (%)                                        1.1       1.4       t.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most reeant estimate (latestyear available, 1991.97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of popuation beWow natonal poverty line)     7
Urban population (%of totalpopulation)                 32         32       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               32         38        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             16         16        -.                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populatIon)                 90         84        84
Illiteracy(% of population age 15+)                    19         17        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  118       115      t11         -Chma
Male                                                119        118       116             Lower-middle-income group
Femate                                              117        116      113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1988      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                          148.8    295.7     825.0    935.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                28.4     37.7      39.2      38.2                     Trade
Exports of goods and servicesJGOP             5.1     12.2      19.3      22.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   29.0     35.2      41.3      42.2
Gross national savings/GOP                   29.0     35.3      40.0      42.2
Current account balance/GOP                   0.2     -2.5       1.1       4.3     Domestic      D
Interest payments/GDP                         0.0      0.2       0.6       0.6     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                0.0      8.0      15,6      14.8
Total debt service/exports                    0.0      9.6       8.8       9.2
Present value of debt'GDP                      ..       ..      14.1
Presentvalue of debt/exports                   ..       ..      65,1
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 9.3      10.1      9.6       8,8
GNP per capita                       8.3      8.5      8.6       7.2        ..               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       18.8     14.0      8.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         30
Agrculture                                   33.2     27.1      20.2      19.7       T
Industry                                    42.3      44.0      49.0      50.8    20 t
Manufacturing                              30.1     35.5      38.1      39.5    10
Services                                     24.5     28.9      30.8      29.5      0      l
Private consumption                          63.3     51.4      47.6      47.2            92   93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                 7.7     13.4      11.1      10.5               -GDI    -          DP
Imports of goods and services                 4.5     14.7      17.1      18.2
(average annual growth)                  1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   6.0      4.4       5.1       3.9   40
Industry                                     11.0     13.9      12.1      10.5     0
Manufacturing                              12.8     13.3       11.7      10.5 
Services                                     12.0      8.7       7.9       9.4 
10
Private consumption                           9.3      8.8      11.9
General govemment consumption                 9.4      9.6       8.3               0
Gross domestic investment                    10.8     11.3       7.6       6.6            92   93   94   95   96   97
Imports of goods and services                22.5     12.8       8.8       7.2             -Exports         .0lmports
Gross national product                        9.8      9.9       9.7       8.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-42 -
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(%/ change)                                                                      30 
Consumer prices                                       6.6       8.3      2.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        2.6      4.6       7.0      3.9    is
1015
Government finance                                                                5
(% of GDP, includes cutnent grants)
Current revenue                                      24.0      11.3     116             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                5.6       0.6      0 6             -     GOP deflator  .P-CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                              -1.8      -1.5     -1.5
TRADE
(US$ millicons)                            1976    1986       1996      1997     Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                30,942   151,073              200,0co
Food                                              4,448    10,232
Fuel                                              3,683     5,929              159096
Manufactures                                     19,670   129.141
Total imponts (cif)                           ..42,904   138,828                 100996              i
Food                                              2,002        ..
Fuel and energy                                    504     6,877                0ia-
Captal goods                                     20,415                            o 0
Export price index (1995=100)                         66                                9
Import price index (1995=100)                         69         .                         aExports     mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              7,383   29,583   171,700  207,800     6 T
Imports of goods and services              7,125   37,472   154,100  167,200
Resource balance                            258   -7,889    17,600   40,600      4 +
Net income                                    0      176   -12,500  -10200       2
Net current transfers                         0      255      4,200   10,200
Current account balance                      258   -7,458     9,300   40600          91  92        994   9    96  97
Financing items (net)                               5,410    22,340   -4,900    -2
Changes in net reserves                             2,048   -31,640  -35,700    .-4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, localWlS$)             1.9      3.5       8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt. 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               23,719   128,817  138,006
IBRD                                               965      7,616    8,239                         A 8,239
IDA                                                774      7,579    7,830          G: 31,464            B 7,830
Total debt service                                  2,973    15,756   19,933                                   D: 3,778
IBRD                                                66       840       858
IDA                                                  8        73        81                                 :    20,782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                    155       248       255
Official creditors                                1,165     4,359    2,315
Private creditors                                 3,693     6,454    3,835                                 /
Foreign direct investment                         1,875    40,180   37,000
Portfolio equity                                     0      3,466        0
World Bank program                                                                            F: 66,787
Commitments                                       1,120     1,900    2,425     A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                      607      2,097    2,275     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                 0       364       377     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                           607      1,734    1,898
Interest payments                                   75       549       582
Net transfers                                      532      1,185    1,335
Development Economics                                                                                             8128/98



- 43 -
Annex 11
China
Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
Review of Financial Management System
I.   Background
1.   Scope/Objective of Review of Financial Management System. This report is the result of a
financial management review and analysis of the project as conducted by Tony Shen, Financial
Management Specialist, EACCF and Sandy Durham, Financial Management Specialist, EAPCO.
The scope of work has been set out in the 'Review of Financial Management System' as
documented in the LACI Handbook, Annex 2. The objective of the review is to determine
whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank in OP/BP 10.02.
2.   Project objective. The objectives of the proposed TCP IV project are to: (a) strengthening
institutions that are key to GOC's ongoing but yet unfinished economic and structural reform
agenda; (b) developing selected economic and structural reform programs which address priority
needs of GOC; (c) strengthening agencies involved in poverty reduction and rural development;
and (d) improving the preparation of projects involved in fostering sustainable development. Key
performance indicators include: (a) establishment of a national economic forecasting system; (b)
establishment of demonstrative regional models for disaster prevention and control; (c) number of
economic and structural reform activities undertaken; (d) number of people involved in design of
economic reform and/or poverty alleviation programs who receive training; (e) satisfactory
feasibility study reports and procurement documentation prepared.
3.   Project status. The project was appraised in February 1999 and negotiated from in the end
of March. It is scheduled to become effective on September 1, 1999, and implementation during
the period of September 1, 1999 - December 2004.
11.  Organizational Structure/Institutional Arrangements
4.   Organization Chart (see Part C, PAD). The agency responsible for overall project
coordination, management and implementation is the Technical Assistance and Human Resources
Development Division (TAHRD), International Affairs Department of the Ministry of Finance.
The central Project Management Office will be managed by TAHRD. The financial, accounting
and reporting aspects of the project, including monitoring, control and maintenance of the Special
Account, are to be handled by the Financial and Statistics Division, International Affairs
Department of the MOF. In addition, tentative subproject implementation agencies which will
implement the project are: (i) Provincial Financial Bureaus (5); (ii) Provincial Offices of Poverty
Alleviation and Development; (iii) Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; (iv) National School of
Administration; (v) Chinese Academy of Sciences; (vi) Shaanxi Yangling Demonstration Zone;
(vii) PIAs and other PIAs will be added as appropriate. Each of the Subproject agencies are
expected to produce and maintain their respective shares of project financial activities, supporting
documentation and reporting; however, consolidated project level reporting will be the
responsibility of the Financial and Statistics Division, the International Affairs Department of
MOF.



- 44 -
5.   Institutional experience with Bank-Financed Projects. The TAHRD has had previous
experience with similar Bank financed projects (e.g. TCC I, II and III) and is familiar with the
existing disbursement, procurement, financial reporting and auditing requirements; however,
additional training will be needed on the new Project Management Report requirements (see
Section VII. Staff and Training below).
HI.  Project Structure and Costing
6.   Financing and Cost Sharing. The financing of the project will be supported through IDA
(U.S. $35M equivalent SDR), IBRD (U.S. $1OM) and Government financing (approximately U.S.
$21.8M) for a total estimated project cost of U.S. $66.8M. Retroactive financing will be
available to cover Participating Agencies' expenses back to March 10, 1999.
7.   Loan/Credit Agreement Categories and Project Components.  The Loan and Credit
categories will include: (1) goods; and (2) consulting services and training. Each of the
loan/credit categories are broken down by project component: Part A - Reform Support and
Institutional Development (RSID); and Part B - Preinvestment and Project Preparation Support
(PPPS).
8.   Project Components. As noted above, the project comprises two components: (1) RSID;
and (2) PPPS. The RSID component will be executed by selected institutions involved in the
government's economic reform policies. Approximately 11 subprojects under this component are
in advanced stage. The RSID component will be designed to: (i) strengthen the capacity of PFBs
and PIAs to manage implementation of Bank-financed projects; (ii) strengthen institutions
involved in the government's economic policies; and (iii) support studies and research associated
with policy reform. The second component (PPPS) will support subproject preparation to be
financed by the Bank, other donor agencies and GOC. Non-Bank financed subprojects will be
selected from the National key Construction Project Plan of the SDPC. The selection of
subprojects to be financed by the Bank will be based on China's proposed Three - Year Rolling
Lending Program.
IV. Internal and Other Controls
9.   MOF Regulations.  The administration, accounting and reporting of the Project are
required to be set up in accordance with the following regulations/circulars as issued by the
International Affairs Dept. of MOF:
a. Circular No. 127: "Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting
Management for Projects Financed by the World Bank" issued in 1993 - provides basis of
accounting treatment of project activities and guidelines for project financial
management;
b. Regulation Method of World Bank "Third Technical Assistance Credit" Projects -
(also known as "Reform, Institutional Support Projects and Pre-Investment Credit",
referred to as "CRISPP Credit") this same regulation will apply to the subsequent TCP IV
project and covers the scope of project administration and implementation procedures
(e.g. procedures for a sub-project unit to apply for funding);
c. MOF Finance Administration and Settlement Method of CRISPP Projects -
encompasses the finance administration of CRISPP Credits;



- 45 -
d.   MOF Circular No. 12 - covers disbursement procedures and requirements; and
e.   MOF Agreement - An agreement has been reached with MOF on a standard set of
financial statements to be used by World Bank projects (see PIP). This agreement replaces
the previously issued Circular #6. These financial statements are based on the
Construction Accounting Standard noted in 10. below.
10.  Standards. The Construction Accounting Standard issued by Accounting Department,
MOF for construction oriented projects dictates the format of financial statements, chart of
accounts and related instructions which will therefore affect project accounting and reporting
requirements.
V.  Project Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting
11.  Accounting standards. The accounts will be prepared in accordance with the Circulars and
adhere to the respective laws and standards as noted in section IV above. An accrual accounting
system, double entry bookkeeping basis will be utilized in accordance with Chinese accounting
standards.
12.  Project Reporting. Clearance has been received from MOF on a standard set of project
financial statements, which will be utilized by this project. A template format of the Output
Monitoring Report has been prepared and provided (see Attachment 3). In terms of reporting
cycle, the project financial statements will be submitted to the Bank bi-annually, in a project
consolidated form, and include the following: (i) Balance Sheet; (ii) Sources and Uses of Funds
by Project Component; (iii) Statement of Implementation of Credit/ Loan Agreement; (iv) Special
Account Reconciliation. Each of the Participating Agencies will be managing, monitoring and
maintaining their respective financial reports; project level consolidation will be done by the
Financial and Statistics Division, MOF.
VI. Special Accounts, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation
13. The Cashier, Financial and Statistics Division (FSD), International Affairs Dept., Ministry
of Finance will manage, monitor and reconcile the one project Special Account. The Special
Account will be held in U.S. dollars. No other related recipient Special Accounts will be held
below the central project management level. Disbursement applications and corresponding
supporting  documentation  will  be  initiated  and  maintained  at  each  of  the
Implementing/Participating Agencies. Disbursement applications are to be first cleared at the
Implementing/Participating Agency level and then forwarded to the Accountant/DO, FSD for
review, approval and processing by the Cashier, FSD.
VII. Staffing and Training
14.  Staffing. Project accounting responsibilities are to be handled at the central level by the
Financial and Statistics Division: 3 operational staff (Accounting Manager with 2 staff:
Accountant/Disbursement Officer and a Cashier). The Accounting Manager reports to the
Director. All of these respective positions have been filled. The Accounting Manager has had
extensive previous experience with Bank projects. In addition, another staff from MOF will also
provide assistance as needed due to his extensive previous experience with Bank projects (e.g.
TCC I, II and III). The Cashier and Accountant/Disbursement Officer have also had extensive



- 46 -
previous experience with Bank projects (estimated at 30 projects). Each of the Implementing
Agencies will be required to have an Accountant/Disbursement Officer and Cashier assigned to
the management, monitoring and processing of project financial documents for its respective
entity, as required by the regulation noted in para. 9.d.
15.  Training. The central PMO and Financial and Statistics Divisions are both experienced
with Bank projects. It has been agreed that during project launching workshop, with participation
from Resident Mission, training will be arranged for all project related financial management
staff on the following: (i) the newly revised financial statement formats; (ii) performance
indicator and procurement reporting requirements; and (iii) project audit requirements. Similar
training will continue to be provided for staff of newly selected subprojects.
VIII. Audit Arrangements
16.  The National Audit Office will be responsible for a comprehensive project audit. The audit
will be scheduled for submission to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the calendar year.
Instructions regarding Bank audits, as documented in the EAP Regional Audit Manual, and a
respective training course was provided to the National Audit Office (central audit body) in Aug
1998 by Price Waterhouse Coopers (consulting firm that prepared the Audit Manual together with
EAP Regional staff).
IX. Conclusion
17.  The financial management team has determined that the project will satisfy the Bank's
financial management requirements as required by OP/BP 10.02. In terms of disbursement
procedures, the project is being deemed Ineligible for Project Management Report-Based
Disbursements and will be utilizing traditional disbursement techniques, in accordance with the
agreement reached between the Bank and the China Ministry of Finance.
Attachments:
1.   Project Organization Chart (see Part C, PAD)
2.   Financial statement formats (see PIP)
a.   Balance Sheet
b.   Summary of Sources and Uses by Project Component
c.   Statement of Implementation of Credit/ Loan Agreement
d.   Special Account
3.   Output Monitoring Report (see PIP)



