Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3212 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Technical Cooperation Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 27, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3212 CHA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project, and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) (the Loan); and 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such 
countries.” 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Implementing Agency” means, in respect of a Subproject, the agency or 
department of the Borrower or of a subdivision of the Borrower, responsible for 
implementing said Subproject; and “Implementing Agencies” means, collectively, all of 
said agencies, departments and subdivisions. 
(b)
“International Affairs Department” means MOF’s International Affairs 
Department, and any successor thereto. 
(c)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
(d)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto. 
(e)
“Subproject” means a specific program or subproject to be carried out by 
an Implementing Agency under Part A or Part B of the Project.
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty five million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR25,700,000). 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special account in dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2009 and ending January 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2019 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  4
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the Implementing Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate financial, economic, technical and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of 
the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement, and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and the Borrower, 
a plan for the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year, including those for the Special 
Account, audited in 
accordance with consistently 
applied appropriate auditing principles, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
may, from time to time, 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except only the effectiveness 
of this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
   %
(Expressed in
  (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
  in dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Goods: )100% 
of 
foreign
)expenditures; 100%
(a) under Part A         3,450,000
-
)of 
local expenditures
of the Project
)(ex-factory 
cost); and
)75% for 
other items
(b) under Part B           510,000           1,600,000
)procured locally
Page  7
of the Project
)
(2)
Consultants’
)100% 
services and
)
training:
)
)
(a) under Part A
   13,070,000               -
)
of the Project
)
)
(b) under Part B         8,670,000           8,300,000
)
of the Project
)
(3)
Front-end fee
-
      100,000
)Amount due 
under
)Section 2.04 
of the
)Loan 
Agreement
    __________
   __________
           TOTAL
    25,700,000
   10,000,000
    ==========
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign 
expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR150,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after March 10, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account (and the Bank 
may require withdrawals from the Loan Account) to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts 
awarded to individuals costing less than $30,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, 
regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
(or the Bank) shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (1) enhancing its 
institutional capabilities to implement its ongoing structural reform program; (2) 
developing specific economic reform programs and projects; and (3) strengthening the 
capacity of its provincial agencies to reduce poverty and promote rural development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Reform Support and Institutional Development 
Carrying out of the following selected technical assistance projects:
Page  8
(1)
Development and carrying out of technical assistance and training programs to 
strengthen the capabilities of national, provincial and local agencies in project 
implementation, said programs to focus on project management, risk management, 
financial analysis, cost-benefit analysis, procurement and disbursement, and to 
include the provision of equipment and software required therefor.
(2)
Development and utilization by the Borrower’s Academy of Social Sciences of 
improved regional and sectoral economic forecasting models, including the provision of 
computer hardware and software required therefor.
(3)
Development and implementation by the Borrower’s National School of 
Administration of a national training program for civil servants in market economics, 
through the development and implementation of teacher-training programs, carrying out 
of comparative studies of market economies and economic management functions of 
governments in market economies, and provision of equipment.
(4)
Development and utilization by the  Borrower’s Academy of Sciences of regional 
models for the anticipation and management of natural disasters, so as to prevent and 
limit damage caused by such disasters, including the provision of computer hardware 
and software required therefor.
(5)
Carrying out of a study by the Borrower’s Province of Guizhou to restructure and 
strengthen its county-level government administration and to develop a master plan for 
the alleviation of poverty in said province; and provision of computer hardware and 
software required therefor.
(6)
Development and introduction in the Yangling Demonstration Zone of the 
Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi, of an agricultural science and technology information 
network, including the establishment of a data bank and provision of computer systems 
and software required therefor.
(7)
Implementation of additional selected technical assistance projects designed to 
strengthen the institutional capabilities of the Borrower’s departments and agencies 
to develop and implement economic policy reforms.
Part B:
Preinvestment and Project Preparation Support
Carrying out of selected subprojects to prepare feasibility studies for 
investment projects proposed for financing by the Bank and other donor agencies, 
including the provision of equipment required therefor. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with:  
(a)
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto 
set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and 
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods to be financed in whole or in part 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the 
Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Page  9
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, but not less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 3. Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with:  (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
Page  10
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraph 1.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
A.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper coordination and management of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
1.
at all times continue to maintain with terms of reference, membership and 
resources acceptable to the Association, a Project management office, headed by the 
Director-general of the International Affairs Department, to be responsible for 
Page  11
ensuring overall management and supervision of the Project and coordination of the 
Implementing Agencies; and 
2.
employ not later than September 30, 1999, and thereafter at all times maintain, 
a Project coordinator with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association, who shall report to the Director of the Technical 
Assistance and Human Resources Development Division of the International Affairs 
Department, and who shall be responsible for the day-to-day administrative aspects of 
Project management. 
B.
Subprojects 
1.
Eligibility
Each program and subproject proposed for inclusion in Part A(1), A(7) or B of 
the Project shall qualify as a Subproject eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Credit only if it meets the following requirements:
(a)
the Subproject’s Implementing Agency has furnished to the Borrower a 
proposal for the Subproject prepared in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, said proposal to include the following information: 
(i)
a detailed description of the objectives, activities and expected 
benefits of 
the Subproject; 
(ii)
the responsibilities of the Implementing Agency in respect of the 
Subproject, 
including staffing arrangements and arrangements for 
the provision of office,  
transportation and other facilities for 
the Subproject; 
(iii)
the proposed procurement plan for the Subproject, including 
proposed 
procurement procedures, training program and 
terms of reference, 
qualifications and 
duration of employment of any consultants proposed to be 
engaged under the Subproject;  a detailed description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, an 
estimate of the 
foreign and local costs of the different items 
of expenditures required for 
the Subproject, a proposed 
financing plan for the Subproject and a proposed 
disbursement 
plan for the Subproject;
such other information as the Borrower and the Association may reasonably request;
(b)
the Borrower has determined, on the basis of an appraisal of said 
proposal, carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
that: 
(i)
the Subproject is a high priority for the Borrower; 
(ii)
in the case of a Subproject under Part A of the Project, the 
Subproject is 
designed to support the Borrower’s 
economic reform program;  
(iii)
the Subproject’s Implementing Agency has the organization, 
management, staff 
and other resources required for the efficient 
and effective carrying out of 
the Subproject; and the 
Subproject’s Implementing Agency has a suitable 
financial management system for the Subproject;
(c)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association said proposal for, and 
appraisal of, the Subproject, including information regarding the amount of the Credit 
proposed to be allocated to the Subproject and the terms and conditions of 
availability of said amount; and
(d)
the Association has notified the Borrower of its approval of the 
Subproject, the amount of the Credit proposed to be allocated to the Subproject, and 
the terms of availability of said amount. 
Page  12
2.
Terms of Availability of Credit  Proceeds under Part A of the Project
For the purpose of carrying out each Subproject under Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make available to the Subproject’s Implementing Agency the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to the Subproject on the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to the Implementing Agency shall 
be the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date, or respective dates, of 
withdrawal from the Credit Account, or payment out of the Special Account, as the case 
may be) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account 
of the cost of items required for the Subproject and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit (the Principal Amount) and shall be recovered by the Borrower 
in dollars in an amount equivalent to the Principal Amount (determined as of the date 
or respective dates of repayment);
(b)
the Borrower shall recover the Principal Amount from the Implementing 
Agency in semi-annual installments over a period of not less than 10 years, inclusive 
of a grace period of 5 years; and
(c)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the Principal Amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate which shall not exceed one percent (1%) per 
annum. 
3.
Terms of Availability of Credit and Loan Proceeds under Part B of the Project 
For the purpose of carrying out each Subproject under Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make available to the Subproject’s Implementing Agency the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to the Subproject on the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to the Implementing Agency shall 
be the equivalent in terms of dollars (determined as of the date, or respective dates, 
of withdrawal from the Credit Account, or payment out of the Special Account, as the 
case may be) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on 
account of the cost of items required for the Subproject and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit (the Principal Amount) and shall be recovered by the Borrower 
in dollars;
(b)
the Borrower shall recover the Principal Amount from the Implementing 
Agency over a period that shall include a grace period of 5 years; and
(c)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the Principal Amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate which shall not exceed three percent (3%) per 
annum. 
C.
Annual Implementation Plans 
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Implementing Agency shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Borrower, 
not later than November 30 in each calendar year, for consolidation and forwarding to 
the Association, a proposed implementation plan for the carrying out of its Subproject 
during the following calendar year, including a proposed training program to be 
carried out during said following calendar year.  
2.
The Borrower shall consolidate said implementation plans and forward the same to 
the Association not later than December 31 in each calendar year, for its review. 
3.
Thereafter, the Borrower shall ensure that each said Implementing Agency shall 
carry out its Subproject during said following calendar year in accordance with such 
implementation plan (including such training program) for such Subproject as shall 
have been approved by the Borrower and the Association.
D.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its 
Page  13
objectives.
2.
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, the following reports:
(a)
semi-annual reports, not later than February 28 and August 31 in each 
calendar year, which:  (i) integrate the results of said monitoring and evaluation 
activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
preceding calendar half-year; and (ii) set out any additional measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives 
during current and next following calendar half-year;
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 2001, which integrates the 
results of said monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
sets out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the Project’s objectives during the period following such date. 
3.
After furnishing each report referred to in Section 2 of this Part, the Borrower 
shall exchange views with the Association on said report, and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
4.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association copies of the documents prepared 
by the consultants engaged for any Sub-project, including reports and drafts thereof, 
in such number as the Association shall reasonably request.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account allocated to the eligible 
Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association or the Bank in respect of the Project pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the respective General Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR11,000,000.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for the Special 
Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
Page  14
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account and the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association; the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
Page  15
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account (as the 
case may be) for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, 
including the General Conditions applicable thereto. 
