Report No. PID4091
Project Name                     China-Fourth Technical Cooperation (@)
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Technical Assistance
Project ID                       CNPE42299
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Responsible Agency               Ministry of Finance
Mr. Zhang Wenhe, Deputy Chief
Technical Assistance Division
International Department
Tel. No. 86-10-6-855-1115
Fax No. 86-10-6-855-1125
Date this PID Updated            October 14, 1998
Appraisal Date                   December 1998
Tentative Board Date             June 1999
Tentative Project Financing Plan:                                 US$
IBRD                     10.0 m.
IDA                      15.0 m.
GOC                      6.0 m.
Total                    31.0 m.
Country and Sector Background
1.      Since 1980, the fundamental objective of the Bank's country assistance
strategy in China has been to provide analytical and material support to the
country's economic reform and modernization process. The Bank's international
perspective has made important contributions to the design and implementation
of China's development efforts, which have helped progressively to integrate
the country's economy with the rest of the world. In this context, and
complementing lending and economic and sector work, technical assistance has
been an increasingly important element of the Bank's assistance to the
country.
2.      Initially, the Bank's technical assistance effort focused on transfer of
technology, mainly through preinvestment, project preparation and training
activities. In the second half of the 1980s, the technical assistance focus
was broadened and deepened to include institutional development and policy
advice in China's key economic management and sectoral agencies. With the
acceleration of reform after 1992 and particularly since March 1998, demand
increased for technical assistance for policy advice, institutional
development support, and preinvestment support. Focused, 'free-standing'
sector-specific technical assistance projects, particularly in the
environmental, financial and fiscal sectors, have also been sought.
3.      Since 1983, the Government of China (GOC) has effectively implemented
four technical assistance projects of a general (non-sectoral) nature. These



have supported project preparation, planning studies, institutional
development, training and economic and policy reform efforts. The Government
has requested the proposed project to help meet its continuing need for
technical assistance in these areas, as well as increase its capacities in
areas not previously addressed in the earlier projects.
Need for Technical Assistance
4.      The large number of projects (both Bank- and non-Bank-financed) currently
under implementation in China (Bank-financed projects alone account for over
100 projects), together with the large annual lending program (about 15
projects), place a heavy and increasing burden of implementation management
responsibility on the central and provincial governments. To alleviate these
pressures, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) would like to strengthen the
capabilities and capacities of counterpart agencies in the provincial
governments, as well as some of the larger local project implementation
agencies, to enable them to assume greater responsibility for project
implementation management at the provincial and local levels. Technical
assistance is needed to support this capacity-building effort.
5.      The major changes that have taken place in China since the early 1980s
have permeated every area and sector of the economy. Over the past decade,
central government agencies responsible for economic policy analysis and
formulation and implementation of economic, financial, and industrial reforms
have made huge progress in managing these changes. However, the nature and
pace of change in recent years has been such that further strengthening of
these institutions remains a high governmental priority, and technical
assistance to support the further development of these institutions continues
to be needed.
6.      The Government's ambitious reform programs over the past 15 years have
generated a great demand for economic and sector analytical work and research
to support these programs, and this demand continues. The Bank's economic and
sector work and its ongoing dialogue with the Government -- for example, in
the areas of state-owned enterprise reform, pension reform, and macroeconomic
policy -- have further contributed to increasing the demand. Technical
assistance is needed to build on this work, and enhance the process of
economic development.
7.      China has benefited considerably from previous technical assistance
projects that have provided funds to support the preparation of projects to be
financed by the Bank. The benefits of effective project preparation are often
realized downstream, during project implementation. Project preparation is
costly, however, particularly for energy and transportation projects. Despite
the availability of other sources of finance for project preparation
activities, the need for continued support and technical assistance in this
area continues.
Project Objectives
8.      The primary purpose of the proposed Project is to provide continued
support to the GOC in its overall economic reform and modernization effort.
More specifically, project objectives are to: (a) increase and strengthen the
capacity of Provincial Finance Bureaus and local project implementing agencies
to manage and implement investment projects; (b) strengthen institutions
- 2-



involved in the Government's economic development program; (c) support the
development and implementation of the Government's reform programs and
policies; and (d) support the preparation of projects to be financed by the
Bank.
Project Scope and Design
9.      In line with the above objectives, the project would comprise two main
components:
(a)     an institutional development and reform support component (about $6
million IDA), which would finance:
(i)     activities designed to strengthen the capability and capacities of
selected Provincial Finance Bureau (PFBs) , as well as key local project
implementation   agencies     (PIAs), for  managing   the preparation and
implementation of investment (including Bank-financed) projects;
(ii)    activities to strengthen the capabilities and capacities of
institutions involved in China's economic reform and development efforts;
(iii)   economic and sector analytical, research, and development work
in selected key areas of the Government's reform program.
(b)     a project preparation component (notionally $10 million IBRD, $9 million
IDA), which would finance feasibility studies, procurement documentation,
training and related activities associated with the preparation of projects in
the Bank's three-year lending program.
10.     Under the institutional development and reform support component,
subproject proposals for capacity development of PFBs/PIAs would be prepared
by Economic Affairs Divisions of PFBs or PIAs. Financing for this capacity
development sub-component would cover consultant advisory services; training
(in such areas as project management, risk management, financial analysis,
cost-benefit analysis, procurement, contracts, and dispute settlement); local
workshops and conferences; equipment and software (e.g. project management
software); and limited project-related study tours. Initially, a pilot group
would be determined on the basis of need and willingness to commit budget
funds to service sub-loans from MOF. Subproject proposals would describe the
institutional development measures in individual PFBs/PIAs needed to bring
about the required capacity strengthening.
11.     A major emphasis in this component will be staff training. As part of
project appraisal, MOF will carry out an assessment of the training needs of
PFBs and selected PIAs, and in conjunction with the Bank, identify
participants for the pilot group. PFBs/PIAs not in the initial pilot group
would be eligible to participate in the project at a later stage of
implementation. Depending upon the nature of the PFB/PIA training required,
training may be carried out locally within provinces, or nationally under the
auspices of MOF. Training would be coordinated by a central institution
utilizing a network of existing universities and training institutions
throughout China.
12.     Subproject proposals for institutional development support and for
research and development studies related to the Government's reform program
-3 -



would be prepared by line ministries, government agencies, academic
institutions, and quasi-governmental institutions. Financing for the
institutional development sub-component would typically cover consultant
advisory services, studies, training, limited related study tours and small
items of equipment. Financing for the reform support sub-component would cover
consultant advisory services, research and studies, training, and possibly
limited related study tours.
13.     Under the project preparation component, subproject proposals would be
prepared by PIAs for projects specifically identified in the Bank's three-year
lending program. The component would finance only project preparation
activities. These could include consultant advisory services; feasibility,
design, engineering or environmental studies; training; small items of
equipment and software; and limited study tours.
Project Implementation
14.     The MOF's International Department would be responsible for the overall
management and coordination of the project. Both components would be
implemented as a series of subprojects. Agencies would have full
responsibility for implementing their particular subprojects, including
meeting consultant recruitment, equipment procurement, record-keeping,
accounting, and progress reporting requirements. MOF would establish
appropriate monitoring systems to ensure agency responsiveness to project
requirements, as well as maintain records for the project as a whole.
15.     MOF would enter into implementation and financial agreements with each
participating PFB, PIA, or central or other provincial agency. The
implementation agreement would provide guidelines and requirements for
subproject implementation. The financial agreements would set out the terms
and conditions under which funds would be on-lent by MOF to the agency. Funds
for all sub-components under the institutional development and reform support
component would be on-lent by MOF to the participating agencies at close to
IDA rates: a one percent interest rate, a five-year grace period, and a 10-
year repayment period. Institutions lacking capacity for loan repayment may
apply to MOF's Budget Department for repayment subsidies, enabling them to
obtain funds under the project on a grant basis. Funds for the project
preparation component would be onlent to participating agencies at a 'blend'
interest rate of about three percent, with a five-year grace period and a one-
year repayment period.
16.     Training required by PFBs and PIAs may be provided locally (in-province),
regionally, or centrally. For local or regional training, participating
PFBs/PIAs would themselves coordinate the logistics of the training, but hire
consultants from a centralized training institution or other sources for the
design and delivery of the courses. For central training, courses would be
designed and delivered by a centralized training institution, and
participating PFBs/PIAs would pay this institution for this service. Payments
would cover all of the institution's training-related costs.
Project Benefits
17.     The project's main benefits would be to strengthen, at the provincial
level, the Government's capacity to manage preparation and implementation of
projects; to strengthen key institutions involved in China's economic
- 4 -



transition; to reinforce the Government's economic and sector reform efforts;
and to finance the preparation of sound investment projects for Bank
financing.
18.     Sustainability under technical assistance projects is typically more
difficult to assess than under projects in other sectors. The project
preparation and supervision capabilities of PFBs and PIAs are likely to be
utilized, given the large number and wide geographic dispersion of projects in
the lending program and under supervision. The close involvement of
researchers in a number of Chinese institutions in implementation of policy
reform recommendations associated with the Bank's economic and sector work
program is also expected to lead to sustainable long-term benefits.
Program Objective Categories
19.     The project would support economic management and private sector
development. Poverty alleviation would not be a focus. Further, the project
is proposed as Environmental Category C, requiring no environmental analysis.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 16, 1998.
- 5 -



