Page  1
1
Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project 
Addendum to TA: Environmental Management Plan 
 
Environment 
 
Provision of preventive and diagnostic services under the HIV/AIDS project is 
expected to benefit the hygiene and sanitation situation in the country 
however it could generate infectious bio-medical wastes such as sharps 
(infected needles and syringes, etc), infected blood, HIV test kits used in VCT 
centers, blood banks and laboratories and pharmaceutical wastes. These 
wastes, if not managed and disposed properly, can have direct 
environmental and public health implications. 
 
The proposed project has been classified as category 
“B” as per the World 
Bank’s Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) 
for 
environmental screening purposes 
given 
the 
risks 
associated with 
the 
handling 
and disposal of medical waste and general health waste. Category B 
projects imply that the potential adverse environmental impacts of the 
program are site-specific and in most cases mitigatory measures can be 
designed readily and appropriately
.
The MoPH and the NACP team are feeling that under this project we are 
focusing on the Infection Control and Waste Management issues only in the 
activities pertaining to this current HIV/AIDS project but it could be a good start 
and foundation stone for a more comprehensive Waste Management Framework 
with other programs and institutions in the country in the future. 
 
An
 
Infection Control 
and 
Waste Management (IC-WM) Plan has been 
developed by 
NACP which 
focuses on the 
establishment of a sound 
management 
system for 
the treatment and disposal of the waste related to the testing, treatment and 
prevention of HIV/AIDS STI and includes generic guidance and protocols and 
alternative technologies for treatment, transportation and disposal 
in 
accordance 
with the 
size of healthcare 
facilities. 
 
Safeguard Policies 
 
This 
project has 
triggered 
OP 4.01 
Environmental 
Assessment due 
to 
the potential 
Adverse environmental impacts of healthcare waste as discussed 
in the 
previous section. A Limited environmental assessment was 
undertaken, by 
different stakeholders, by visiting some government run and some NGOs run 
facilities
,
which included field visits and consultations. NACP does
 
not have 
the 
necessary institutional capacity 
to 
implement 
the IC-WM Plan and would 
need to obtain appropriate support for components such as training, IEC and 
monitoring. 
An
 
external 
independent 
evaluation 
is 
recommended before the 
mid 
term 
review of 
the 
program to ensure all activities 
are 
on track. 
E1686 
Page  2
2
The final version, of the Infection Control and Waste Management Plan 
should be disclosed in the World Bank InfoShop prior to Appraisal and also it is 
the responsibility of the NACP and the MoPH to make it available to all 
relevant national stakeholders in the local languages as well as in the 
relevant websites. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) [ 
] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
Activities and Responsibilities of
 
NACP
 
NACP is the platform where the following Activities must take place: 
·
Development, revision and implementation of  Afghanistan National HIV/AIDS 
Strategic Framework 
·
Establishment and running VCCT centers in different parts of the country 
·
Development and adaptation of different types of guidelines and protocols 
·
Establishment and co-ordination of HIV/AIDS Co-ordination Committee of 
Afghanistan(HACCA) 
·
Supervising different surveys and studies regarding HIV/AIDS 
·
Fund raising for smooth running of Program 
 
Provision of preventative and treatment services under the NACP is expected to generate 
infectious bio-medical wastes such as sharps (infected needles and syringes,  equipment, 
IV sets) infected blood, HIV test kits used in VCT centers, blood banks and laboratories 
and pharmaceutical wastes. These wastes, if not managed and disposed properly, can 
have direct environmental and public health implications. Healthcare workers (HCWs) 
are at great risk as most bloodborne occupational infections occur through injuries from 
sharps contaminated with blood through accidents or unsafe practices. Systematic 
management of such clinical waste from source to disposal is therefore integral to 
prevention of infection and control of the epidemic. 
In this context, governments have an obligation to implement the provisions of the 
2001 United Nations Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, which include a 
commitment to strengthen health-care systems and expand treatment, as well as to 
respond to HIV/AIDS in the world of work by increasing prevention and care programs 
in public, private and informal work-places.  
 
HIV/AIDS Control Program in Afghanistan 
Page  3
3
The first HIV positive case was identified in central blood bank in 1989.As the country 
was in conflict in that time the Government of Afghanistan responded to it by launching 
awareness programs. In 2003 the Government of Afghanistan formed National AIDS 
Control Program (NACP) in MoPH. The first National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan was 
developed which was revised in 2006. Now the six functional VCCT centers are 
functioning throughout the country. 
Afghanistan National Development Strategy has a statement regarding HIV/
AIDS                                                                        
which indicate a high political commitment on government side. 
 
Environment and Public Health Impacts of the Program 
 
Provision of preventative and treatment services under the HIV AIDS project is expected 
to generate infectious bio-medical wastes such as sharps (infected needles and syringes, 
surgical equipment, IV sets) infected blood, HIV test kits used in VCT centers, blood 
banks and laboratories and pharmaceutical wastes. These wastes, if not managed and 
disposed properly, can have direct environmental and public health implications. 
Healthcare workers (HCW) are at great risk as most blood-borne occupational infections 
occur through injuries from sharps contaminated with blood through accidents or unsafe 
practices. Systematic management of such clinical waste from source to disposal is 
therefore integral to prevention of infection and control of the epidemic. 
 
In this context, governments have an obligation to implement the provisions of the 
2001 United Nations Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, which include a 
commitment to strengthen health-care systems and expand treatment, as well as to 
respond to HIV/AIDS in the world of work by increasing prevention and care programs 
in public, private and informal work-places. 
 
The NACP projects specially world bank supported project for the first time, has been 
classified as Category “B” as per the World Bank’s Operational Policy on Environmental 
Assessment (OP 4.01). Category B projects imply that the potential adverse 
environmental impacts of the program are site-specific and in most cases mitigatory 
measures can be designed readily and appropriately. NACP is developing an Infection 
Control and Waste Management Plan which defines a structured a systematic approach to 
institute best practices in managing health and environmental risks effectively. 
 
Also the ministry has developed guidelines on Auto-Disable Syringes Use and Disposal.
 
Auto-Disable (AD) syringes have been introduced in the country as part of the Universal 
Immunization Program. Accordingly, the MoPH has laid down the National Guidelines 
on use and disposal of AD syringes. 
 
In the following are some rules for Bio-medical Waste Management to be followed 
during the project Implementation. 
 
Table 1: Bio-medical Waste Management Rules 
 
Category
 
Waste Category
 
Treatment and disposal 
Page  4
4
1
Human Anatomical Waste (human tissues, organs, body 
parts) 
 
Incineration / deep burial 
 
2
Animal Waste (animal tissues, organs, body parts 
carcasses, bleeding parts, fluid, blood and experimental 
animals used in research, waste generated by veterinary 
hospitals colleges, discharge from hospitals, animal 
houses) 
 
Incineration / deep 
burial 
 
3
Microbiology & Biotechnology Waste (wastes from 
laboratory cultures, stocks or specimens of micro-
organisms live or attenuated vaccines, human and 
animal cell culture used in research and infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes 
from production of biological, toxins, dishes and devices 
used for transfer of cultures) 
 
Local autoclaving / microwaving 
/incineration 
 
4
Waste sharps (needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, glass, 
etc. that may cause puncture and cuts. This includes both 
used and unused sharps) 
 
Disinfection (chemical 
treatment/autoclaving/microwaving 
and mutilation/shredding) 
 
5
Discarded Medicines and Cytotoxic drugs (wastes 
comprising of outdated, contaminated and discarded 
medicines) 
 
Incineration, destruction and drugs 
disposal in secured landfills 
 
6
Solid Waste (Items contaminated with blood, and body 
fluids including cotton, dressings, soiled plaster casts, 
lines, beddings, other material contaminated with blood) 
 
Incineration /autoclaving 
/microwaving 
 
7
Solid Waste (wastes generated from disposable items 
other than the waste sharps such as tubing, catheters, 
intravenous sets etc). 
 
Disinfection by chemical treatment 
/autoclaving /microwaving and 
mutilation shredding 
 
8
Liquid Waste (waste generated from laboratory and 
washing, cleaning, house-keeping and disinfecting 
activities) 
 
Disinfection by 
chemical treatment and 
discharge into drains 
 
9
Incineration Ash (ash from incineration of any bio-
medical waste) 
 
Disposal in municipal 
landfill 
 
10 
Chemical Waste (chemicals used in production of 
biological, chemicals used in disinfection, as 
insecticides, etc.) 
 
Chemical treatment and discharge 
into drains for liquids and secured 
landfill for solids 
 
Notes: 
 (1) Chemicals treatment using at least 1% hypochlorite solution or any other equivalent chemical reagent.    
It must be ensured that chemical treatment ensures disinfection. 
(2) Mutilation/shredding must be such so as to prevent unauthorized reuse. 
(3) There will be no chemical pretreatment before incineration. Chlorinated plastics shall not be    
incinerated. 
(4) Deep burial shall be an option available only in towns with population less than five lakhs and in 
rural areas. 
Page  5
5
Institutional and Administrative Framework
 
National AIDS Control Program was established in 2003 as a unit in MoPH to lead the 
country response to the epidemic of HIV/AIDS. NACP has the responsibility of steering, 
supporting, coordinating and overseeing the activities carried out for HIV/AIDS control 
program. HIV/AIDS Co-ordination Committee of Afghanistan (HACCA) is the entity 
which oversees NACP. 
 
NGOs form an important element of targeted intervention. NGOs undertake HIV 
prevention activities through the public health system as well as through targeted 
interventions. Thus while the bulk of VCTCs, STD clinics are in the public sector, 
targeted interventions are implemented through NGOs who work with the high risk 
groups. For the most, these NGOs also make testing services available through the same 
public networks. 
 
BASELINE DATA AND CURRENT PRACTICES OF IC-WM
 
Sites and Facilities Visited and Stakeholders Consulted
 
The information relating to current practices enumerated below is based on site visits to 
(Place, Facilities number --------------------------------------- 
The facilities visited included primary, secondary and tertiary health-care facilities 
(government-run), VCCTCs, Blood banks, and STD Clinics 
(including associated laboratories). The stakeholders consulted during site visits 
included: 
ƒ
HACCA 
ƒ
NGOs 
ƒ
Health-care workers at blood banks, VCCTs, blood banks, and STD clinic 
ƒ
Primary/secondary/tertiary health-care facilities 
ƒ
Local communities, including patients, peer educators, commercial sex workers 
ƒ
Waste management facilitators (private organizations) 
 
Prevailing IC-WM Practices 
 
Survey Findings: 
The findings from the site visits and primary data collection have been grouped in two 
categories: 
ƒ
Government-
run Facilities (“Government Facilities”) that include primary, secondary 
and tertiary healthcare facilities 
ƒ
NGO-run Facilities (“NGO Facilities”) that include VCTC and STD clinics 
 
Government-run Facilities
 
Overview 
Page  6
6
Most of the government-run facilities surveyed had poor standards of hygiene and 
inadequate IC-WM practices. Although awareness of the Bio-medical Rules and 
Hospital Waste Management Guidelines is high (over 90% of the facilities visited), lack 
of funds, irregular supply of barrier protection and PEP(Post Exposure Prophylaxis) and 
human resource shortage were cited as the main reasons for poor implementation of IC-
WM practices. Though more than 90% of the facilities visited were aware of the 
Applicable statute and guidelines, specific compliance requirements were not known to 
the majority of the HCWs interviewed. 
In 
most of the facilities surveyed, hospital infection control committees had not been 
constituted. Even in those facilities in which IC-WM committees were present, the 
authorities admitted that these were not very active. 
Few or none IEC material were observed in most of the facilities visited. Additionally, 
there is no evaluation process to assess the quality of training imparted and its outcome in 
terms of improved IC-WM practices. 
 
Employment of Infection Control Measures 
 
The general assessment was that a large number of nurses, paramedics were found to be 
ignorant of good practices. Since these HCW also will work with HIV/AIDS patients, the 
lack of availability of barrier protection, disposable needles and PPE becomes a critical 
issue. In several instances the staff admitted to not using gloves during blood handling 
procedures. They also admitted to using the same disposable syringe for several patients 
and thus needle recapping was a common practice. AD syringes could not be observed at 
any of the facilities visited. 
On the contrary glass syringes were being used at several places for which the general 
practice is reuse after sterilization. 
 
Needle Cutters were rarely available and were mostly electric ones which are prone to 
being underutilized during power cuts or being damaged due to voltage fluctuations. It 
was observed that HCW either did not utilize the needle-cutters or instead broke the 
needles with their bare hands, or by using a heavy object, or even not at all. In majority of 
the instances the intact syringes or mutilated needles were not immersed in 1% 
hypochlorite solution as required. 
 
HCW in several of the secondary and tertiary facilities did report accidents due to needle 
stick injuries. However, the incidence of reporting was low, with only 30-40% of the total 
injuries being reported.  
 
In PHCs, no waste segregation and disinfection practices could be observed. The general 
standards of sanitation and hygiene were found to be very low. Infectious waste (blood-
soaked cotton, used un-mutilated syringes, worn gloves) was seen scattered under the 
patients’ beds, in the corridors and washrooms. All infectious and non- infectious waste 
was observed to be collectively disposed in shallow open pits. 
 
In secondary and tertiary facilities partial waste categorization and segregation practices 
were observed though awareness of statutory (Regulatory) requirements was largely 
Page  7
7
absent. Even if known, non-availability of appropriately colored poly-bags and bins, 
leads to improper segregation with waste being generally handled without any barrier 
protection. 
 
NGO
–run Facilities 
 
Overview 
 
In general, all NGO run-facilities demonstrated awareness of and adherence to good IC-
WM practices, partial or complete. These facilities typically had regular training, 
sufficient funds, regular supply of barrier protection and PEP and human resources. 
Awareness of NACP publications was also high as these form the basis of training and 
functioning of these facilities. Since the funding of NGO facilities is separate from that of 
Government facilities, hence selective training and equipment availability could be 
observed. 
 
Employment of Infection Control Measures
 
Due to systematic training and re-training, the awareness is significantly higher in these 
HCW. NGO have been providing barrier protection, PEP, disposable needles and needle 
cutters (electrical type) on a regular basis. Accident Reporting is also observed to a large 
extent and most workers had been vaccinated against HBV. 
 
Employment of Waste Management Measures 
 
The fact that the waste disposal for NGO
 facilities is dependent on the host facility’s 
disposal practices further compounds the problem of waste management. In instances 
where waste management is being carried out by third parties (such as at Common 
Treatment Facilities) there is a higher degree of conformance to Biomedical Rules. 
 
RECORD OF CONSULTATION/DISCUSSION WITH RELEVANT 
STAKEHOLDERS 
 
Two types of consultations were held during the course of this study:
 
Consultation with individual stakeholders during the site visits 
ƒ
Consultation convened by the NACP design team and facilitated by environmental 
department of MoPH 
 
The IC-WM Plan proposed below is based on existing documentation, observations 
during site visits, review of existing practices amongst other health initiatives and 
discussions and consultations with stakeholders. 
 
INFECTION CONTROL AND WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN
 
Page  8
8
The 
IC-WM Plan 
(“Plan”) provides a consolidated, reference material on IC-WM good 
practices that may be further tailored to suit the facility’s needs. The Plan is build on the 
following framework: 
ƒ
Section I: Infection Control and Waste Management 
ƒ
Section II: Capacity Building 
ƒ
Section III: Institutional Framework 
ƒ
Section IV: Monitoring and Evaluation 
ƒ
Section V: Implementation Schedule 
 
Section I: 
Infection Control and Waste Management
 
Healthcare workers involved in the NACP face the highest occupational risk due to the 
nature of their work dealing with testing and treatment of HIV/AIDS cases. Infectious 
waste from AIDS related activities include primarily: needles and sharps, blood and 
blood bags, used test kits, culture samples and slides and other related infectious waste 
such as swabs, gloves, bandages, sputum cups etc. Thus it is imperative that good IC-
WM practices are implemented. This activity should not be restricted only to certain 
sections of the healthcare facility like VCTC, PPTCT, but extend to all facilities runned 
by NACP. 
 
1. 
Waste Segregation and On-site Storage 
 
Segregation at source is the most critical step towards a well- functioning waste 
management system. Separation of infectious and non- infectious waste becomes 
impossible once mixed, resulting in greater risk to all concerned. 
 
The Bio-medical Rules provides color coding for waste segregation and their respective 
treatment options, as listed below in Table 
 
Waste segregation and color coding 
Color coding
Waste Category 
Treatment option 
Yellow
 
Plastic bag Cat. 1, Cat. 2, and Cat. 3, Cat. 6.
 
Incineration / deep burial
 
Red
 
Disinfected container/plastic bag Cat. 3, Cat. 6, 
Cat.7 
 
Autoclaving / Microwaving / 
Chemical Treatment
 
Blue / White 
Translucent
 
Plastic bag/puncture proof Cat. 4, Cat. 7. 
Container
 
Autoclaving / Microwaving / 
Chemical Treatment and 
Destruction / shredding
 
Black
 
Plastic bag Cat. 5 and Cat. 9 and Cat. 10. 
(solid)
 
Disposal in secured landfill
 
The facility should ensure that there are designated segregation points, as close to the 
generation points as possible. Segregation requires appropriate consumables, such as 
good quality and adequately sized containers, non-chlorinated plastic bags, needle cutters 
Page  9
9
and safety boxes. The specifications and color-coding provided in the Biomedical Rules 
need to be strictly followed. 
 
2. 
Collection and Transportation of Bio-medical Wastes
 
Transportation of bio- medical wastes, within and outside the healthcare facility needs to 
be secure and well-managed. Spills and leakages can be risky for patients and the 
community, but can also result in pilferage and reuse of potentially infectious items such 
as syringes etc. 
 
Specific steps to be taken by each facility include: 
¾
Waste should be collected from various sources and transported to a central location. 
¾
Within the facility, special waste routes should be designated to avoid patient care 
areas. Special timing should be identified for transportation of bio-medical waste to the 
central point. 
¾
Dedicated wheeled containers, trolleys or carts should be used to transport the waste 
to the collection/treatment site. These should be such that the waste can be easily loaded 
and emptied and remain secured during transportation. They should not have any sharp 
edges and be easy to clean and disinfect. 
¾
If disposal is done within the premises of the healthcare facility, care should be taken 
that different categories of waste are disposed of accurately (sharps in sharps pit, 
anatomical waste in deep burial pits etc) as designated in the Biomedical Rules. 
¾
Waste handlers should be properly trained and should use barrier protection during 
transportation. 
 
3. 
Treatment and Disposal of Bio-medical Wastes
 
·
Used sharps (needles, slides, scalpels etc), blood bags, syringes and other 
infectious plastic and liquid wastes (Categories 4, 7, 8, and 10 of the Biomedical 
Rules) need to be disinfected by immersion in 1% hypochlorite solution or any 
other equivalent chemical reagent. It must be ensured that chemical treatment 
ensures disinfection. 
·
Waste containers should contain freshly prepared disinfectant solution and be kept 
closed all the time. At all times, the waste container should not be more than 3/4
th 
full. 
·
The waste containers should be emptied at least once everyday. 
·
Infected linen in the hospital should be carefully packed in plastic bags, and 
disinfected before being sent for washing. Personnel involved in laundering 
infected linen should take adequate precautions to prevent the exposure to 
infections. 
·
A
log of quantity of waste generated by type, name of waste handler, time of 
emptying waste container, time of cleaning container and pouring disinfectant 
should be maintained. 
·
Disposal as recommended in the Rules, should be as follows: 
 
Page  10
10
ƒ
Sharps 
in their puncture proof containers should be drained of the disinfectant 
and disposed in the sharps pit, constructed within the premises. 
ƒ
Infected organic waste 
should be disposed of in the deep burial pits also 
constructed within the facility and covered with a layer of lime and soil. 
ƒ
Infected recyclables 
such as plastics and metals, can be sent for recycling but 
only after disinfection and/or autoclaving. 
 
All equipment used for bio-medical waste treatment should be periodically subjected to 
maintenance checks to ensure its functioning. Both preventive and corrective 
maintenance schedules and records should be retained in the facility. As a general 
practice of maintaining good hygiene, the floors of the facility should be first swabbed 
with a wet cloth, then swept to remove grits to avoid dust carrying pathogens from rising 
into the air and, finally, swabbed with a disinfectant solution. The swab cloth should be 
washed with detergent after every use. The housekeeping personnel should employ use of 
protective barriers to prevent exposure to infection. 
 
4. Sharps 
Management 
 
Given the high risk of infection from infected sharps, a separate section on the safe use 
and disposal of sharps is being detailed. Sharps are anything that may cause puncture and 
cuts. Sharps include needles, scalpels, blades, broken glass, slides, lancets, sutures, and 
IV catheters. Infected needles, sharps and blood, if improperly handled, can be a source 
of infection for the HCWs. 
 
Although the risk of infection from contaminated sharps is high for all categories of 
HCW, those most at risk of exposures are nurses, medical staff and clinical laboratory 
staff (blood collectors). Physicians are at some risk, but surgical and dental staff, 
although at high risk of injury, have a lower risk of infection. It must be remembered that 
all health care personnel (including cleaners, laundry staff and waste contractors) may be 
exposed to inappropriately discarded sharps. While emergency rooms and operating 
theatres pose high risk for HCW, it has been found that a) the majority of exposures have 
occurred in general ward areas and b) a larger number of exposures which would be 
classified as high risk have occurred in medical wards. 
 
The following measures must be taken to ensure sharps safety in the work-place: 
¾
Barrier protection must always be used when handling sharps. 
¾
Sharps must be segregated and stored in puncture-proof containers at the point of 
generation. 
¾
Sharps must be mutilated before treatment and disposal. Used disposable or 
Autodisable (AD) syringes should be mutilated by using needle cutters/ destroyers and 
hub-pullers and dropped into a puncture-proof container. Clipping, bending or breaking 
of needles by hand or re-capping should be avoided as this may cause accidental injuries. 
¾
Used sharps should not be left untreated or carelessly on counter tops, food trays, or 
beds, as this can pose a risk to all concerned. 
¾
Mutilated sharps should be immersed in 1% hypochlorite solution or any other 
equivalent chemical reagent for disinfection. Treatment by autoclaving / microwaving is 
also approved. 
Page  11
11
¾
Final disposal should be in a secured landfill. Wherever this is not available 
everywhere, sharps pits or encapsulation should be used. 
o
A
sharps pit is a circular or rectangular pit, where sharp wastes are disposed. These 
pits are lined with brick, masonry or concrete rings. 
The pit should be covered with a concrete slab. When the pit is full, it should be sealed 
completely and another pit is prepared. 
o
Encapsulation is another method. When a container (puncture & leak proof containers) 
is three-quarter full, material such as cement mortar, bituminous sand, plastic foam or 
clay is poured until the container is completely filled. After the medium has dried, the 
containers are sealed and disposed in landfill sites. 
 
GUIDELINES FOR DISPOSAL OF USED DISPOSABLE SYRINGES
5
No 
Steps / Stages
 
1
Severe needles from disposable syringe immediately after administering injection 
using a needle cutter/hub-cutter that removes the needle from disposable syringes 
or cuts plastic hub of syringe from AD syringes. 
 
2
The cut needles get collected in the puncture proof container of the needlecutter/ 
hub-cutter. The container should contain an appropriate disinfectant and the cut 
needles should be completely immersed in the disinfectant 
 
3
Segregate and store syringes and unbroken (but discarded) vials in a red bag or 
container. 
 
4
Send the collected materials to the common bio-medical waste treatment facilities. 
If such facilities do not exist, then go to the next step. 
 
5
Treat the collected material in an autoclave. If this is unavailable, treat the waste 
in 1% hypochlorite solution or boil in water for at least 10 minutes. It shall be 
ensured that these treatments ensure disinfection. 
 
6
Dispose the autoclaved waste as follows: (i) Dispose the needles and broken vials 
in a pit / tank, (ii) Send the syringes and unbroken vials for recycling or landfill. 
 
7
Wash the containers properly for reuse.
 
8
Make a proper record of generation, treatment and disposal of waste.
 
5.  
Blood safety in Laboratory
 
Blood is the single most important source of HIV, HBV, HCV and other blood borne 
infections for HCWs. It is mandatory to screen blood units for five transmissible 
infections: Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, HIV, syphilis and malaria. The Rules in the country 
Page  12
12
also require for testing procedures, quality control, standard qualifications, and 
experience for blood bank personnel, maintenance of complete and accurate records, 
strict guidelines for holding of blood donation camps etc. and to be further improved. 
Careful donor screening, discouraging use of paid donors, stringent screening of donated 
units of blood to prevent HIV transmission through blood and blood products. Another 
important action taken by MoPH has been to modernize the blood banks in the country.
 
Risk of infection varies with a number of factors, including type and number of 
exposures, amount of blood involved in the exposure, amount of virus in the patients’ 
blood etc. Modes of exposure to blood borne pathogens in a laboratory have been defined 
as below
7
:
Modes of Exposure to Blood-borne Pathogens in the Laboratory
 
Procedure
 
HCW at risk
 
Source/Modes of 
Transmission
 
Collection of 
blood/body fluid
 
Laboratory technician
 
ƒ
Needle stick injury 
ƒ
Broken specimen container 
ƒ
Blood contamination of 
hand with 
skin lesions/breach
\03
Transfer of specimen
 
Laboratory technician 
and transport worker
 
Contaminated exterior of 
container 
ƒ
Broken specimen container 
ƒ
Spills/splashes of specimen
 
Processing of 
specimen
 
Laboratory personnel
 
Puncture of skin 
ƒ
Contamination of skin from 
spills, 
splashes, glassware and work 
surface 
ƒ
Faulty techniques 
ƒ
Perforated gloves
 
Cleaning /Washing
 
Laboratory support 
staff
 
ƒ
Puncture of skin 
ƒ
Contamination of skin from 
spills, 
splashes, glassware and work 
surface
\03
Disposal of waste
 
Laboratory support 
staff
 
ƒ
Contact with infectious 
waste, 
specially sharps, broken 
containers
\03
Specimen Transport/postal 
staff
 
Broken/leaking container or 
Page  13
13
transportation/mailing
 
packaging
 
¾
As per the Bio-medical Rules, infected blood and blood samples is characterized as 
liquid waste and should be disinfected with hypochlorite solution. 
 
¾
Screened positive blood bags, contaminated test kits and items are categorized as 
infected solid waste and should be disinfected by chemical treatment / autoclave and 
mutilated before disposal. 
¾
Transport of specimens should be done in a diligent manner. The sample should be 
kept first in primary container with enough absorbent material around it. The primary 
container should then be placed in secondary container. 
¾
Staff should take care that the secondary container is also leak-proof, properly sealed 
and labeled. Upright position must be maintained at all times. 
 
6.  
Infection Control
 
The four key areas of infection control for the NACP are: 
O
Immunization against nosocomial infections 
o
Availability and use of barrier protection 
o
Management of PEP 
o
Awareness 
 
¾
Activities of high risk include invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, wound 
dressing, operation theatre procedures, handling of blood/serum/body fluids and tissues 
etc. and special attention should be paid to ensuring safety precautions during these 
activities. 
¾
Barrier protection (gowns, masks, caps, gloves, shoes) should be maintained to 
prevent contact with contaminated blood/body fluids. 
¾
HCW working in high risk areas should be immunized, at the minimum, against 
HBV. 
¾
Daily cleaning of facility premises with appropriate disinfection should be done. 
¾
Spills are an important source of infection and should be cleaned up immediately. 
The spill should be covered with absorbent material, disinfectant poured around the spill 
and over the absorbent material. The surface should be wiped again with disinfectant. 
HCW must utilize barrier protection, specially gloves, when managing spills. 
¾
General observance of personal hygiene is important. All staff must be neat and 
clean always, with clean uniforms, nails, short or tied-up hair, etc. 
¾
PEP is required when there has been contact with known HIV/AIDS infected 
materials resulting from: 
o
Percutaneous inoculation (needle stick, cut with a sharp, etc.) 
o
Contamination of an open wound 
o
Contamination of breached skin (chapped, abraded, dermatitis) 
o
Contamination of a mucous membrane including conjunctiva 
Page  14
14
¾
In all such instances immediate post-exposure management is crucial to reducing the 
risk of acquiring infection. This should be done in the manner prescribed by the above 
mentioned guideline to be developed by NACP. 
¾
All accidents whether needle stick injuries or spills should be reported. 
 
Section II: 
Capacity Building and Awareness
 
Training and sensitization of various HCWs and functionaries within and outside the 
health care system is vital for the successful implementation of any IC-WM Plan. The 
training should focus on Universal Precautions, principles of waste management, 
identification of roles and responsibilities for implementation, monitoring and reporting. 
All awareness, training and communication initiatives should be oriented towards 
providing knowledge / information, building skills & competencies and bringing about a 
fundamental, mindset change in the attitudes of staff & personnel. The Training Plan and 
budget should be included into the MoPH  PIP and into NACP PIP and program budget. 
 
The following steps should be followed for implementing training: 
¾
Conduct baseline assessment of training needs for HCWs involved in the 
implementation of AIDS Control Program. For an integrated approach 
¾
A
Training Plan needs to be developed based upon existing capacity and training 
needs. At the outset, this plan should distinguish between trainers and non-trainers and 
elaborate the criteria for identifying trainers and their requirement for training. 
¾
Training should be provided to all HCWs, including doctors, nurses, ward boys, 
paramedics, laboratory technicians, and Class IV and/or housekeeping staff. 
¾
Training should be imparted through: 
o
Dissemination of Information, Education and Communication (IEC)material that will  
sensitize HCWs and create general awareness on importance of IC-WM. 
o
Technical training for HCWs with specific responsibilities for discrete activities 
related to IC-WM. 
¾
Training in Infection Control and in Waste Management should be a comprehensive 
package as the two are closely inter-twined. 
¾
The 
Train the Trainer 
program will have to be undertaken at two levels 
–
state and 
district levels. Training should be provided on an annual basis, with refresher courses 
annually or biannually. 
 
¾
In addition to classroom type training, IEC material and awareness-creating activities 
also need to be employed for training the HCW. Training should preferably be provided 
on site. 
¾
Each facility should keep records of training provided to employees, by category of 
employee. 
¾
The IEC material must be prepared in the local language on both IC and WM and 
should be prominently displayed at various places. It should serve as a reminder for all 
the trained employees as well as sensitize patients visiting the facility.  
 
Page  15
15
Section III: 
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Monitoring & evaluation will be done through a mix of internal and external approaches. 
The internal reporting and evaluation mechanism on the IC-WM implementation should 
be integrated with overall NACP reporting. Management Information Systems (MIS) 
indicators pertaining to the IC-WM will be developed during implementation. External 
monitoring in the form of IC-WM implementation audits is also being recommended. 
 
i) Quarterly monitoring
 
Each facility must establish a robust system of monitoring through regular documentation 
and assessments. Ideally, each facility should designate one senior employee responsible 
for documentation and another for internal evaluation. In the case of VCTC, PPTCT and 
blood banks, the laboratory technician should maintain records of waste sharps, gloves, 
etc. and infectious waste. The records must be maintained on a daily basis and internal 
assessments should be conducted on a monthly basis. 
The monthly report from NGO should directly be send to NACP. 
 
ii) Periodic Implementation Review 
 
Periodic implementation review of the IC-WM should be undertaken, and as far as 
possible, this review should be inbuilt into the regular review process of the NACP. 
This review should focus on consolidated information and reporting from individual 
facility level. To facilitate regular and sustained monitoring, each NGO implementing 
HIV/AIDS program develops annual Action Plans specifically for IC-WM, which should 
be included into the MoPH PIPs. 
 
iii) Performance Indicators
 
NACP envisages a robust nationwide Strategic Information Management System (SIMS) 
with focus on implementation, monitoring, evaluation and strategic surveillance, 
appropriate standards for measuring performance, analyzing variances, identifying 
bottlenecks, alerting program managers and facilitating corrective measures. Some 
generic Performance Indicators of the IC-WM Plan have been recommended below, 
which should be integrated into the NACP SMIS. 
 
Implementation of all components of the IC-WM Plan 
o
Timely procurement and distribution of IC-WM consumables and equipment 
o
Regular and timely training programs undertaken 
o
Regular evaluation of training effectiveness and assessment of employee behavioral 
practices 
o
Timely interventions and coordination with host facility on significant issues which 
could hinder effective implementation of IC-WM Plan 
o
Timely and regular reporting and evaluation undertaken, with corrective measures 
when necessary. 
 
Page  16
16
iv) External Implementation Audits
 
The NACP will be responsible for hiring of an external technical consultant/firm to 
undertake an independent evaluation of the program and its implementation. The agency 
to conduct this technical review should be chosen on the basis of their technical expertise 
and established experience in Bio-medical waste management and environmental 
auditing. Such an independent audit review will be undertaken once during the life of the 
program, preferably before a mid-term evaluation is conducted.
 
