                                             Document of
                                           The World Bank


                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                            ReportNo: T7698 - AF




                                        TECHNICALANNEX

                                     FORA PROPOSEDGRANT

                               INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR6.60 MILLION

                                  (US$lO.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                            THE ISLAMICREPUBLICOF AFGHANISTAN

                                                FORA

                                  HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONPROJECT




                                             July 5,2007




HumanDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsiaRegion

This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contents mavnot otherwisebe disclosedwithout WorldBank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (ExchangeRateEffectiveApril 30, 2007)


                         CurrencyUnit = Afghani
                                  Af50 = US$1
                                  US$1 = SDR 1.450


                                  FISCALYEAR
                             March21     - March20



                       ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AHAPP     AfghanistanHIV/AIDS PreventionProject
ACBAR     Agency CoordinatingBodyfor AfghanRelief
AFGA      AfghanFamilyGuidanceAssociation
AIDS      AcquiredImmunodeficiencySyndrome
ANASF     AfghanistanNational AIDS Strategic Framework
ANCB      AfghanNon-GovernmentalOrganisations CoordinationBureau
AMI       Aid MedicalInternational
APWC      AfghanPeace-seekingWomen's Council
ARDS      Afghanistan ReconstructionandDevelopment Services
ART       Anti RetroviralTreatment (Therapy)
BCC       BehaviorChange Communication
BPHS      Basic PackageofHealthServices
CAF       Children's AIDS Fund
CBHC      Community-basedHealthCare
CBO       Community-basedOrganization
CRS       CatholicReliefServices
DA        DesignatedAccount
DaB       DaAfghanistanBank
DAC       DevelopmentAssistance Committee
DIC       Drop inCentre
EC        EuropeanCommission
FMA       FinancialManagementArrangements
EPAP      EmergencyPublicAdministrationProject
FSW       Female Sex Worker
GCMU      Grants and Contracts ManagementUnit
GDP       GrossDomesticProduct
GNP       GrossNationalProduct
GOA       GovernmentofIslamicRepublic ofAfghanistan
HACCA     HIV/AIDS CoordinatingCommitteeofAfghanistan
HIV       HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus
H-SWG     HIV SurveillanceWorkingGroup
H M I S   Health ManagementInformationSystem
HR        HarmReduction
I-ANDs    InterimAfghanistanNationalDevelopment Strategy

                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

       IBBS            IntegratedBiological and Behavioral Surveys
       IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
       IC-WM           InfectionControl and Waste Management
       IDA             International DevelopmentAssociation
       IDU             InjectingDrugUse(r)
       IEC             Information, Education and Communication
       IMF             International Monetary Fund
       KAP              Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
       KOR              Khatiz Organizationfor Rehabilitation
       M&E              Monitoringand Evaluation
       MDGs             MillenniumDevelopment Goals
       MOCN             MinistryofCounter-Narcotics
       MOD              MinistryofDefense
       MOE              MinistryofEducation
       MOF              MinistryofFinance
       MOHE             MinistryofHigher Education
       MOHIA            MinistryofHaj and IslamicAffairs
       M O I            MinistryofInterior
       MOJ              MinistryofJustice
        MOPH            MinistryofPublic Health
        MORR            MinistryofReturnees and Refugees
        M O U           Memorandum of Understanding
        MOWA            MinistryofWomen's Affairs
        MDM             Medecins duMonde
        MSM             Men who Have Sex with Men
        MSW             Male Sex Worker
        NACP            NationalAIDS ControlProgram
       NCA              NorwegianChurch Aid
        NGOs            Non Government Organizations
        OECD            Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
        01              Opportunistic Infection
        PACBP           Public Administration Capacity Buildingproject
        PEFA            Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
        PFM             Afghanistan's Public Finance Management system
        PIP             Program Implementation Plan
        PLWHA           People Livingwith HIV and AIDS
        POP             Program Operational Plan
        PPU             Procurement Policy Unit
        SCA             SwedishCommittee for Afghanistan
        SDU             Special Disbursement Unit
        SGS             Second Generation Surveillance
        SOEs            Statement o f Expenses
        STI
        sw              Sexually Transmitted Infection
                        Sex Worker
        TIS             Targeted Interventions
        TOR             Terms o fReference
        UNAIDS          Joint UnitedNations Programme on HIV and AIDS
        UNDP            UnitedNations Development Program
        UNGASS          UnitedNations Special Sessionon HIV and AIDS
        UNICEF          UnitedNations Children's Fund




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

UNODC  UnitedNations Officeon Drugs and Crime
VCCT   Voluntary Confidential Counseling and Testing
VCT    Voluntary Counselling and Testing
WADAN  Welfare Association for Development of Afghanistan
WHO    World Health Organization




                      Vice President:      Praful Pate1
                    Country Director:      Alastair McKechnie
                      Sector Manager:      Anabela Abreu
                  Task Team Leader:        Mariam Claeson



                                       iv

                                                AFGHANISTAN
                           AfghanistanHIV/AIDSPrevention Project
                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                              Page

I. PROJECTRESULTSFRAMEWORK                                    ..............................................................................       1

I1 PROJECTOBJECTIVESANDDESCRIPTION
 .                                                                               .............................................................     2
  A. Objectives ...........................................................................................................................        2
  B. Description of Project Components ....................................................................................                        2

I11 IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
  .                                                                   .......................................................................      5
  A. Institutional Arrangements..................................................................................................
         .   .                                                                                                                                     5
  B. Financial Management. Disbursementand Audit Arrangements .......................................                                              6
  C. Procurement Arrangements ................................................................................................                     8
  D. Monitoringand Evaluation Arrangements..........................................................................                               9

IV ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFEGUARDPOLICIES
  .                                                                                        ..................................................      10
  A. Environmental Assessment ...............................................................................................                      10
  B. Safeguard Policies.............................................................................................................               10

Appendix 1:ProjectCosts        ..........................................................................................................          12

Appendix 2: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                           ........................................................................        13

Appendix 3: ProcurementArrangements andProcurementPlan                                                .........................................    23

Appendix 4: FinancialManagement                  .........................................................................................         32

Appendix 5: Core services ofthe NationalHIV/AIDS PreventionProgram                                                       ........................  43

Appendix 6: ProjectPreparationand Supervision                             ..................................................................       44

Appendix 7: MapsIBRD31643R1                   ............................................................................................         46




                                                             V


I. PROJECTRESULTSFRAMEWORK
             Project Indicators                Baseline       Target End       Frequency          Data
                                                 Y r 0           Y r 3*        and Reports      Collection
                                                                                               Instruments


 1. HIV prevalenceingeneralpopulation           <0.5%            <0.5%         Every 2 years    Modeling
 2. HIV prevalenceamonghigh risk              IDU: 3%*          <=5%*          Every 2 years      IBBS
 groups (IDU,SW)
                                                                                             1I
 Project Key Performance Indicators:
 3. Percentage o f IDUs reporting use of                                     I              I

 sterile injection equipment at last time        --yo*      30 % agePoint      Every2 yrs         IBBS
                                                                             1I
 injected                                                       increase
 4. Percentageo f IDUsreporting use of
 condom at last time sex                                    20%agepoint
                                                                increase       Every2yrs          IBBS
 5. Percentageo f SW reporting use of a
 condomwith their most recent client             -q0*             50%          Every2yrs          IBBS
 6. Percentageof truckers reporting use of                  20 YOage point
 a condom last time with sex worker              --%*           increase       Every 2 yrs
 7. Percentageof prisonerswho report
 access to sterile injectingequipment.           --O/o*         increase


 8. Score on subset of National Composite            --                        Every 2 years      Policy
 Policy Index (UNGASS)**                                                                        assessment
 9. Percentageof those aged 15-24 who            --yo*      20 % age point      Every 2-3        NRVA
 correctly identify ways of preventing HIV                      increase          years
 transmission-measuredingeographic
 areas specific to program.
                                   Component 2. StrengtheningSurveillance
 10. Percentageof urban centers which          3 cities         33% o f           Annual       NGO reports
 have done high risk group mapping                             provinces
 11.Number of annualNACPreports and                  _ _       Every year         Annual       Annual report
 action plans informedby surveillance and                                                       andaction
 routine monitoring data.                                                                          plan
                                                           itions for at risk roups
                                                               IDU: 60%        Every 2 yrs;       IBBS
 (e.g., IDUs,FSWs, truckers, prisoners)                       FSW: 50%
 reachedby HIV prevention program                            Trucker: 25%         Annual         Routine
                                                             Prisoner: 80%                      monitoring
 13. Percentageo f most at risk populations                    IDU:50%
 (e.g., IDUs, FSWs, truckers, prisoners)                      FSW: 50%
 who correctly identify 2 ways of                --o/o*      Trucker: 50%      Every 2 yrs        IBBS
 preventing HIV transmission                                Prisoner: 75%
 14.Percentageo f T I sites meeting service                   IDU: 5 of 6
 quality standard                                    _-       FSW 1of 1                         Balanced
                                                            Trucker: 1of 1        Annual        score card
                                                                                                assessment

                                                                               milding
 15. Percentageof contractedsanctioned                                                       I
 implementationunits w/ uninterrupted                --           85%             Annual         GCMU
 fund flow and service delivery.                                                                 reports
 to be adjustedusingresults of baselinesurveillance data, ongoing;
**A subset ofAfghanistan policy priorities to be taken from UnitedNations Special Session on HIV andAIDS
(UNGASS) Policy Index and developedinto a score.

11.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Objectives
1.       The project will contribute to the national development goals of the Interim Afghanistan
National Development Strategy (I-ANDs) of maintaining Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
prevalencebelow 0.5 percent inthe generalpopulationand below 5 percent amongvulnerable groups
at high risk of infection. The project's development objectives are to slow down the spread of HIV
and build up the national capacity to respond to the epidemic. This will be accomplished by: (a)
behavior change among vulnerable groups at high risk; and (b) improving knowledge of HIV
preventionand reducingstigmarelatedto HIV and (AcquiredImmunodeficiencySyndrome) AIDS in
the generalpopulation.
2.       The key performance indicatorsthat will be usedto track the projectdevelopment objectives
are:

         (a) the percent of injectingdrug users who have adoptedbehaviors that reducetransmission
              of HIV, that is, who useclean injectingequipment at last time injecting;

         (b) the percentof sex workers who reportusinga condom with their mostrecentclient; and

         (c) the percent of young people aged 15-24, in areas covered by the project, who correctly
              identifyways of preventingHIV transmission.

B. Description ofProjectComponents

Component 1: Communicationsand Advocacy

3.       This component will strengthen the advocacy and communication capacity of the National
AIDS Control Program (NACP) to create a policy environment that enables scaling up of targeted
interventionsfor vulnerable populationsat highrisk, and reduces stigmaand discriminationrelatedto
high risk behaviors. Specifically, informedadvocacy among policymakersand opinion leaders will
aim to reduce stigma and harassment of vulnerable populationsand have leaders: (a) appreciate the
threat of HIV to Afghanistan; (b) better understand the actions that can prevent a full-blown HIV
epidemic; (c) becomeeffective sources of informationfor the rest of the community; (d) take actions
themselves to assist their communities to avoid HIV; and (e) provide continuous support for the
AIDS control program.It has been agreed that a national policy statement with commitment to the
principlesof confidentialityand the voluntary nature of HIV testingwill be inplace at the start ofthe
project, and that during the course of the project, appropriate substitution treatment policy for
injecting drug users (IDUs) will be developed. The communications activities, including behavior
change communicationand media activitiesdescribedbelow, will increase access to informationand
appropriate knowledge of HIV prevention and other related health issues for vulnerable groups at
highrisk, includingsex workers and their clients, truckers, andyouth in areas covered by the project.
The behavior change interventionswill includea focus on the use of clean needles and syringes, and
on condom use among IDUs and their partners; on consistent condom use among sex workers and
their clients; and, on appropriateknowledge about HIVtransmission andways ofpreventingit among
all vulnerable populationsat risk.

4.       Activities will include (a) target audience research; (b) development of an advocacy strategy
and activities such as high level meetings, training, and disseminationof evidence-based advocacy
informationpackages;(c) development of core training and informationpackagesfor target audiences
for use by service providers; (d) specific communication trainingfor Non Government Organizations
(NGO) service providers, journalists, private practitioners and others; (e) gender- and culturally

                                                   2

appropriate communication media targeting vulnerable persons at risk; (f)audience surveys; and (g)
reporting. To ensure a coherent approach and complementarity o f activities, one organization will be
contracted to develop the plan and implement all elements o f the communication and advocacy
component under the coordination and guidance o f the National AIDS Control Program (NACP).

Component2: StrengtheningofHIV Surveillance

5.       This component will build the evidence base for HIV and AIDS planning and help monitor
and evaluate the effectiveness o f the program. Itwill buildNACP capacity to track the magnitude and
trajectory o f the HIV epidemic in Afghanistan through the development o f second generation
surveillance (SGS) system. The SGS system includes separate mapping and size estimation o f at risk
populations, collection o f biological data from representative samples of the populations, and tracking
the behaviors that contribute the most to HIV transmission dynamics. Based on the current
understanding o f the epidemic, these behaviors are injecting drug use and unsafe sex. In addition to
providing data for monitoring o f the epidemic, the wide array o f knowledge, behavioral, and service
utilization data collected through SGS will provide the basis for future resource allocation and
program management decisions to be made by NACP. All the SGS data will therefore be owned by,
and readily available to, the NACP, and generated on an intermittent or routine basis, and not subject
to the same internal review processes put in place for research and special studies. All surveillance
activities involving HIV testing will follow the standard confidentiality and voluntary testing
procedures o f the voluntary confidential counseling andtesting (VCCT) sites.

6.       Epidemiologically relevant data in Afghanistan remain scarce; however some recent studies
o f at risk populations will be used to refine the selection o f survey groups and locations for the
baseline round o f the surveillance activities. As the baseline round o f surveillance data become
available, adjustments and potential expansions o f the surveillance sites and target populations will be
made as needed to more appropriately monitor the epidemic. Likewise, the preliminary targets
established by the program (see results framework) will be adjusted based on available data.

7.       The SGS activities will be implemented by an organization selected through international
competitive bidding.This organization will work with the National AIDS Control Program (NACP),
guided by an HIV Surveillance Working Group (H-SWG), to train its staff to conduct surveillance,
obtain all necessary test kits and other materials, provide timely reports, and disseminate findings.
The surveillance firm is given explicit responsibility for conducting national level capacity building
on SGS methods and providing thorough documentation on the design and execution o f the various
studies. The terms o f reference for surveillance include: (a) an initial desk review o f currently
available information about location and size o f at risk populations, including characterization with
respect to patterns o f mobility and intersection with other risk groups; (b) annual mapping and size
estimation o f at risk populations in urban centers (up to 8 sites every second year or twice during the
duration o f the project); (c) integrated biological and behavioral surveys (IBBS) o f IDU, female sex
worker (FSW), prisoners, and truckers using probability based methods conducted twice during the
Program Implementation Plan (PIP) period; (d) two rounds o f Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
( U P ) surveys o f mainstream opinion leaders to assess the effectiveness o f the advocacy and
communication component; (e) annual data synthesis and epidemic modeling o f available
surveillance and other data to project the impact o f the epidemic onthe overall country scenario.

8.       Due to the importance o f obtaining baseline measures for the core program indicators in order
to measure project results, the data collection activity for the IBBS o f IDU, SWs, and prisoners
should be completed within the first 6-9 months o f the project. The early development o f service
quality standards and guidelines for different program components will also ensure that the survey
instruments are specific and relevant to the program being implemented.


                                                     3

Component3: Targeted Interventionsfor HighRiskBehaviors

9.       This component will support targeted interventions(TIS)to prevent further spread of HIV
amongvulnerable groups at highest risk (see Appendix 5 for definitionof TI packages). The TISwill
support safe practices and reduce risky ones. The targeted intervention for HIV preventionamong
IDUs provides a comprehensive harm reduction package, including needle and syringe exchange,
peer counselingand education, and condompromotion,deliveredat drop incenters andthrough other
outreach services. The services will be delivered where HIV transmission is most likely to occur,
basedon mappingof highrisk populationsand sero prevalence survey data, with flexibility to expand
to new sites as they are identified. Proposals will be invited from NGOs for work with identified
groups, such as IDUs and their partners, sex workers and their clients, and others as appropriate in
selected sites startingwith the major urban areas. InKabul, due to the estimated size and spread of
mainly street based IDUs, there will be three contracts covering different parts of the city and
surroundingareas, while inthe other three cities with surrounding areas (Herat, Jalalabad andMazar)
there will be one contract for each area. NGOs will provide the services under contract with the
Ministry o f Public Health(MOPH). The Grants and Contracts Management Unit (GCMU) will have
the managerialand financial responsibilitiesandtheNACPwill providethe technicalsupervision.

10.      The terms of reference (TOR) for targeted interventions for IDUs, sex workers and their
clients, truckers and prisoners will include (a) gathering of baseline data to estimate the size of the
populationto be covered, on a case by case basis, taking into account local data needs and the data
that is already available through social mapping; (b) establishment and operation of appropriate
services such as, inthe case of HIV preventionamong IDUs, drop in centers (DIC), social support,
needle and syringe exchange, condom distribution, sexually transmitted infections (STI) care, other
medicalsupport, andVCCT; and(c) reporting.The contracts for IDUswill target groups in four cities
and their surrounding areas with flexibility to expandto new sites each following year basedon data
showingadditionalsites (hot spots) with concentrationof personswith highrisk behaviors.There will
be only one contract each for HIV prevention among truckers, sex workers and their clients, and
prisons.Procurementof this will be basedon competitivebidding.The prisonprogramand one ofthe
IDU TISwill include operations research to assess the feasibility of alternative options for effective
substitutiontherapy, to informnationalpolicy to be developed on substitutiontherapy. Ethnographic
study will be conducted to learn more about MSMnetworks and how to design appropriate strategies
for reachingMenwho have Sex with Men(MSM)with HIV preventioninterventions.

Component 4: ProgramManagement,CapacityBuilding,Monitoringand InnovationActivities

11.      This component will strengthen the core functions of the national HIV/AIDS prevention
program, including program management, capacity development, and monitoring by NACP and the
multi sector HIV oversight o f the HIV/AIDS Coordinating Committee o f Afghanistan (HACCA).
This component will also provide funding of innovativeapproaches - an "Innovation Initiative" for
mainstreamingof the national multi sector HIV response.Membership of HACCA is extensive and
includesNGOs and civil society representatives as well as ministrieslisted below. Capacity building
activities in this component will facilitate learning and include exposure visits, short term TA,
training, including training of health services providers, and conferences leading up to policy
development and review. The NACP will be supported though six national advisors, the program
manager, and an international advisor - two of the national advisors will support the GCMU on
financing and procurement. The Project will support NACP office operations and transport for
monitoringand supervisionactivities, includingregular (monthly) visits to activity sites throughout
the country.

12.      This component will support the development of routine monitoring and service quality
assessment, closely aligned with the existing Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and Health

                                                  4

Management Information System (HMIS) o f the MOPH, and including an action plan, timeline, and
assigned responsibilities to the M&E advisor and other NACP staff. Standardized, routine monitoring
indicators and formats will be developed for each program area. The principles and operations o f
routine monitoring for NACP will be consistent with established practices o f the larger MOPHM&E
and HMIS system for Basic Package o f Health Services/Emergency Project Health Services facilities.
This includes emphasis on local units reviewing and analyzing their own data for program
management purposes. In a few program areas, where other ministries or other M O P H departments
(e.g., Ministry o f Counter-Narcotics (MOCN) or the M O P H demand reduction unit) play a role in
managing NACP supported or externally funded activities, it will be critical to obtain consensus on
routine monitoring standards and requirements so that NGOs receiving funds from multiple donors
follow a single standard, and data can be analyzed across various types o f implementation units.

13.     The Innovation Initiative for multi sector mainstreaming will invite proposals from sectors
other than health. The Innovation Initiative will enable other line ministries, NGOs and the private
sector to develop action plans in support o f the project development objectives, through a
memorandum o f understanding with the MOPWNACP (line ministries) and through NGO contracts
managed by the MOPWGCMU. This will enable innovative HIV prevention activities, for example
among women, youth, refugees and returnees, and other initiatives to reduce stigma in different
population groups. The grants under the Innovation Initiative will include: (a) baseline (if available);
(b) appropriate innovation activity for an agreed target group in an agreed location; (c) monitoring
and evaluation plan; and (d) reporting. The first round may cover several contracts for different
audiences and/or target groups. The second and third round may extend these contracts and/or add
contracts for additional audiences and/or target groups.

14.     ProjectCosts. The estimated cost o fthe project with contingencies is about US$lO.O million
over three years. The project costs summary and cost breakdowns by components are described in
more detail inAppendix 1.

111.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

A. InstitutionalArrangements

15.     The project will be implemented over a three year period by the MOPH. The institutional
framework is in place, assigning the program coordination, management and technical roles to
MOPWNACP and the financial management and procurement responsibilities to the MOPWGCMU,
under the overall multi sector oversight o f HACCA. Technical working groups are being established
(Le,, HIV Surveillance WG) by the NACP to guide its work program, drawing on available technical
experts from professional, academic, research or other organizations within the country. These
technical working groups will support and report to NACP, which in turn will present the
recommendations o f the technical working groups to the H A C C A for endorsement. The M O P H will
contract the surveillance and communications components o f the project to agencies that can carry
out those functions while developing and transferring capacity in these areas. The targeted
interventions for the prevention of HIV among IDUs, sex workers and their clients, truckers and
prisoners will be contracted to NGOs and Community-based Organizations (CBOs) with experience
inworking with the communities at risk.Non-health ministries, private sector and NGOswill be able
support or implement HIV prevention programs, funded through the Innovation Initiative, by
preparing proposals to be reviewed by a multi sector review panel led by the NACP, and reporting to
the HACCA. Specifically, the roles ofthe NACP, GCMU and HACCA are as follows:

16.     National AIDS Control Program will lead the implementation o f the proposed project, in
close coordination with relevant departments within MOPH, Le., Reproductive Health, Mental
Health/Drug Demand Reduction, Information, Education and Communication (IEC), Environmental

                                                   5

Health, and M&E Departments and with key non-health sectors. The targeted intervention activities
will be contracted out to NGOs and CBOs. Working with NGOs and CBOs in the prevention,
treatment and care o f HIV and AIDS is international best practice, and will: (a) facilitate access and
use o f preventive services among vulnerable groups at highest risk through peer educators and other
outreach strategies; (b) ensure the protection o f communities at highest risk; and (c) help sustain the
program among communities at risk. The strengthening o f surveillance and the communications
components will also be contracted to organizations with experience in carrying out and building
capacity inthese areas. MOPHhas a good track record o f implementing the Health Sector Emergency
Reconstruction and Development Project, which includes the NGO-contracting approach to service
delivery. In fact, civil society involvement is even more relevant to HIV prevention efforts, because
the vulnerable population groups are particularly difficult to reach through governmental channels
and need to be involved for effective coverage and quality. The proposed multi sector Innovation
Initiative under AHAPP will be managed by the MOPH, reporting to HACCA. A multi sector review
board, chaired by the NACP, will approve proposals from non-health sectors, through the Innovation
Initiative.

17.      The NACP capacity will be strengthened. NACP is currently staffed by a Program Manager,
an international advisor (supported by the project), and four officers, most o f whom need to further
their skills and expertise in HIV/AIDS program management. The NACP i s in the process o f
recruiting a total o f six national advisors to help build NACP and G C M U capacity in the following
areas: (a) monitoring and evaluation; (b) advocacy and communication; (c) IDU interventions; (d)
interventions for other vulnerable populations; (e) procurement; and (f') accountant/financial
management. The NACP team will focus on the monitoring, coordination, quality control and
management o f various activities proposed by the AHAPP, while the GCMU, which has a strong
track record o f handling project financing and procurement, will manage those aspects o fthe project.

18.      HIV/AIDS Coordination Committee of Afghanistan (HACCA) has been established by
M O P H to ensure a broad-based and inclusive oversight mechanism. This multi sector committee is
chaired by the Deputy Minister for Technical Affairs o f MOPH, and includes the participation o f key
ministries, agencies from public and private sectors, civil society and external development partners.
HACCA will have eight provincial representatives (representing all 34 provinces) and two
representatives o f people living with HIV and AIDS (PLWHAs) to guide the national Program
Operational Plan (POP) and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), a subset o f the POP, and begin a
deeper involvement o f various sectors and partners. HACCA will play a critical role inthe process o f
developing a national policy on HIV/AIDS to be endorsed by key ministries and parliament,
including support to the principles o f confidentiality and voluntary testing and the protection o f
vulnerable groups at highrisk from stigma and discrimination.

19.      Grants and Contracts Management Unit. The Head o f the accounting department for
G C M U in MOPH will manage the financial transactions o f the program, such as the preparation o f
M-16 forms (payment orders), coordination with other line ministries involved in the program, and
overall contract and project management. This department is staffed with financial management (FM)
personnel who are efficiently managing all current external grants including the (International
Development Association (IDA) Health Sector Project. A qualified and experienced procurement
specialist and an accountant are being recruited by MOPH to strengthen the financial management
and procurement capacity o f GCMUto handle the additionalwork related to the AHAPP.

B. FinancialManagement,Disbursementand Audit Arrangements

20.      An Afghanistan's Public Finance Management (PFM) performance rating system has
recently been developed for Afghanistan by the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
(PEFA) multi-agency partnership program, which includes the World Bank, International Monetary

                                                    6

Fund (IMF), EC, and other agencies. Afghanistan's ratingsagainst the PFM performance indicators
portray a public' sector where financial resources are, by and large, being used for their intended
purposes as authorized by a budget that is processed with transparency and has contributed to
aggregatefiscal discipline.

21.     Financial management and audit functions for the proposed project will be undertaken
throughthe agents contractedunder the Public AdministrationCapacityBuilding project.This is the
primary instrument for continuing to strengthen the fiduciary measures put in place for ensuring
transparency and accountability of funds provided by the Bank and other donors. Under these
contracts, two advisers-Financial     Management and Audit-are       responsible for working with the
government and line ministriesto carry out these core functions. The FinancialManagement Agent
(FMA) is responsiblefor helpingthe Ministry of Finance(MOF) maintainthe accounts for all public
expenditures, including IDA-financed projects and for building capacity within the government
offices for these functions.

22.     At the project level, financial management will be coordinatedby the NACP through the
GCMU of MOPH. The financial management capacity in GCMU, which has experience in the
managementof Bank projects, will be strengthenedby the recruitmentof an additionalqualified and
experiencedaccountant.

23.      Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will be prepared by the NACP/GCMU/MOPH
accountingunit. Consolidated projectreports will be prepared, reviewed, and approved by the MOF,
supportedby the FMA.

24.      A DesignatedAccount (DA) with a ceilingof US$500,000 will be opened at DaAfghanistan
Bank (DaB, Central Bank) in the name of the project on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
The DA will be maintained by the MOF. Withdrawal applications for reimbursement will be
submittedmonthly.Financialmanagementarrangementsfor the project are detailedinAppendix 4.

Fund Flows

25.      Fund management for the Project will follow existing procedures. As with all public
expenditure, all payments under the project will be routed through MOF. The FM Agent will assist
the MOF in executing and recordingproject payments. In keepingwith current practices for other
projects in Afghanistan, the DA will be operated by the Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) in the
Treasury Department MOF. Requests for payments from DA funds will be made to the SDU by
MOPH. In addition to payments from DA funds, MOPH can also request the SDU to make direct
payments to contractors, consultants or consulting firms, and to request issuance of special
commitments for contracts covered by letters of credit. Such requests will follow World Bank
procedures. All withdrawal applications to IDA, including reimbursement, advances, special
commitment and direct payment applications, will be prepared and submitted by MOF.
GCMUMOPH will prepare statements of expenditures based on suggested formats given by the
Bank.

Accountingand Reporting

26.      A Financial Management Manual will be prepared by MOPH documentingthe financial
management arrangements for the project, including detailed arrangements and procedures for
payments and reporting for those that will benefit from the InnovationInitiative. The manual will
outline guidelines for project activities including specific requirementsfor line ministriesinvolvedin
the program, and establish a project financial management system in accordance with standard
Afghan government policies and procedures. This will include use of the Chart of Accounts

                                                    7

developedby the FMA to recordproject expenditure. Projectaccounts will be consolidatedcentrally
inMOF, throughthe SDUand supportedby the FMA. ConsolidatedProjectFinancialStatementswill
bepreparedfor all sources anduses of projectexpenditures.

InnovationInitiative

27.      An amount ofUS$l,OOO,OOO     is to be set aside from the projectfunds for innovativeactivities
that will strengthen multi-sector responses from government departments, community NGOs, and
privatef m s accordingto the project'sresults framework and essentialpackagesof services.Budgets
for the InnovationInitiative will form part of the total project budget for MOPH which will be the
responsible line ministry for the expenditures incurred, irrespectiveofthe benefitinglineministry.

28.      Disbursements for proposals approvedby the multi sector reviewBoardunder the Innovation
Initiativewill requiresignedperformanceagreements(Le., MOlJsfor line ministriesandcontractsfor
community NGOs and private firms) between the MOPH and the recipient institutions. The
performance agreements will delineate each party's responsibilities, record procedures for
procurement and financial management, and containa copy of the approvedfundingproposal.Itwill
also define performance milestones in project implementationthat, when verified, serve as triggers
for the release of additionalpayments, after the initial tranche payment made based on the proposal.
For NGOs and CBOs, IDA is financingthe sub-grant on either a lump sum or tranched basis, with
MOPH doing detailed monitoring of actual expenditures of sub-grant funds. For other Line
Ministries,IDA is financingthe procurement contracts (for works, goods, services) awardedandthus,
doing actual expenditure monitoring and requiring expenditures (use of sub-grant proceeds) to be
providedvia either records (supportingdocumentation) or reports of statement ofexpenses(SOEs).

29.      Forfinancial reportingfrom recipientinstitutions, reports will be submitted quarterlyor at the
time of request for funds tranche release, whichever is earlier. The reports shall consist of financial
and physicalprogress. MOPHwill designcommonreportingformats or templates, inorder to enable
it to assemble financial information from a number of participating institutions into an aggregate
reportfor onward submission to the Bank (as part ofthe quarterly interimun-auditedprojectfinancial
reports). Detailsandformats wouldbe includedinthe project's financialmanagementmanual.

DisbursementMethod

30.      Disbursements from the IDA grant will be in accordance with the Bank's Disbursement
Handbook for World Bank Clients and include advances reimbursement, direct payment, and
payments under Special Commitments including records (full documentation) or against summary
reports(statementsof expenditures), as appropriate.

Audit ofProjectFunds

3 1.     The Auditor General, supportedby the Audit Agent, is responsible for auditingthe accounts
of all IDA-financedprojects. Annualauditedproject financial statementswill be submittedwithin six
monthsofthe close ofGoA's fiscal year.

C. ProcurementArrangements

32.      Procurementactivitieswill be carried out by the MOPHthroughthe GCMU.

33.      Procurementwill be in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under
InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development(IBRD)Loans and IDA Credits" (datedMay

                                                   8

2004; revised October 2006); "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" (dated May 2004; revised October 2006); and the provisions stipulated in the
Development Grant Agreement. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Requests for Proposals,
and Forms o f Consultant Contract will be used. In case o f conflictlcontradiction between the Bank's
procurement procedures and any national rules and regulations, the Bank's procurement procedures
will take precedence. The summary o f the procurement capacity assessment o f the implementing
agencies and precise arrangements are presented inAppendix 3,

D. MonitoringandEvaluationArrangements

MonitoringArrangements

34.      M&E o f the national program will be NACP's responsibility, in cooperation with the M&E
department o f MOPH, and aligned with the HMIS. The project will strengthen the capacity o f the
NACP to monitor program implementation and evaluate progress towards the national HIV
development goal, which is to keep national HIV prevalence below 0.5 percent among the general
population and below 5 percent among the population groups with highrisk behaviors. Strengthening
o f surveillance is a major component o f the project, since sero-prevalence and behavioral data are
critically needed to inform policy, priorities and decision making. As part o f evaluation, the project is
also considering support for a feasibility study o f piloted harm reduction interventions, to strengthen
the evidence base for the most effective, feasible and appropriate substitutiontherapy options in the
Afghanistan context. Other special studies include an ethnographic survey o f M S M and analysis o f
the relationship between injecting drug use, poppy cultivation and counter narcotics policies. These
evaluation data and special studies will supplement the routine monitoring system, which will collect
and analyze data, contributing to, and using a compatible database platform as the existing M O P H
HMIS system.

35.      The project results framework (Section 1) was developed to ensure consistency between the
PIP and the broader POP, and linkingproject components and major actions with expected outcomes.
A checklist for the policy assessment index is being prepared to identify core policy issues necessary
to create an enabling environment for HIV/AIDS control programs to be effective in Afghanistan.
The checklist i s intended to award credit for partial achievements in advocacy considering the
substantial effort required to pass policy and legislation. Scoring i s determined objectively according
to whether policies are in place and supportive follow-up actions to enforce or apply such policies
have occurred.

36.      The ongoing social mapping o f high risk groups and the surveys o f sero-prevalence and
behavioral determinants among those and other groups (University o f Manitoba and University o f
California San DiegoNAMRU-3 respectively) will provide some results by mid 2007 and help build
a baseline for the project. The ongoing exercise is also building skills in the country to map highrisk
groups, skills essential for implementation and monitoring.

37.      Project Monitoring will be carried out at different levels. At the level o f NACP, the Manager
would conduct quarterly reviews with NACP staff and implementation partners (NGOs, CBOs, non-
health line ministries that draw from the multi-sector fund and academic or research institutions that
would carry out research studies). At the level o f MOPH, the Deputy Minister for Technical Affairs
would conduct regular biannual reviews. HACCA will also review the progress o f project
implementation at Annual Review meetings, including all development partners. A routinely
collected set o f monitoring data and service quality assessments will comprise the basis o f these
reviews. The specific indicators in both these sets will reflect the terms o f reference o f the program
component, and the guidelines/operations manual developed for use by the implementationagencies.


                                                    9

38.      Evaluation would be o f two types: (a) project evaluation, which would be carried out at the
end o f the project; and (b) assessment o f the feasibility o f pilot activities planned under the project.
The former would depend on baseline data, largely collected through the first round o f the planned
SGS activities, at the beginning o f the project period; routine monitoring data and periodic progress
reports through the life o f the project, a process monitoring based mid-term review 18 months into the
project's life and an end-line measurement o f achievements. Feasibility studies o f pilots would be
carried out by robust scientific methods, and would be built into the respective pilots themselves, in
order to determine the programmatic effectiveness and feasibility o f each intervention being tested,
and to learn lessons for incorporation incase the pilot intervention is deemed fit for scaling up.

IV.      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFEGUARDPOLICIES

A. EnvironmentalAssessment

39.      Provision o f preventive and diagnostic services under the HIV/AIDS project is expected to
benefit the health situation in Afghanistan, however, it could generate infectious bio-medical wastes
such as sharps (infected needles and syringes, etc.), infected blood, HIV test kits used in Voluntary
Counselling and Testing (VCT) centers and laboratories and pharmaceutical wastes. These wastes, if
not managed and disposed properly, can have direct environmental and health implications.

40.      This project has been classified as category "B" as per the World Bank's Operational Policy
on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.0 1) for environmental screening purposes given the risks
associated with the handling and disposal o f medical waste and general health waste. Category B
projects imply that the potential adverse environmental impacts o f the program are site-specific and,
in most cases mitigatory measures can be designed readily and appropriately. An Environmental
Management Plan, including an Infection Control and Waste Management (IC-WM) Plan has been
developed by NACP which focuses on the establishment o f a sound management system for the
treatment and disposal o f the waste related to the testing, treatment and prevention o f HIV/AIDS/STIs
and includes generic guidance and protocols and alternative technologies for treatment, transportation
and disposal in accordance with the size o f healthcare facilities. The details o f the Environmental
Management Planare described in a separate Addendum to the TA.

B. Safeguard Policies

41.      This project has triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment due to the potential adverse
environmental impacts o f healthcare waste as discussed in the previous section. A limited
environmental assessment was undertaken by different stakeholders and included consultations and
field visits to some government run and some NGO run facilities. NACP does not have the necessary
institutional capacity to implement the I C - W M Plan and will need to obtain appropriate support for
components such as training, IEC and monitoring. An external independent evaluation is
recommended before the midterm review o f the program, to ensure all activities are on track. It is the
responsibility o f the NACP o f the MoPH to make the final version o f the Infection Control and Waste
Management Plan (to be disclosed in the World Bank InfoShop) available to all relevant national
stakeholders inthe local languages as well as on the relevant websites.




                                                     10

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                    No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                  [XI                     [ I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [I                     [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                              [ I                    [XI
PhysicalCultural Resources(OP/BP 4.11)                                                 [ I                    [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                   [ I                    [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OPBP 4.10)                                                         [ I                    [XI
Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                                    [ I                    [XI
Safety of Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                             11                     [XI
Projects in DisputedAreas (OPBP 7.60);                                                 [ I                    [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                       [ I                    [XI




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice theJinal determination of theparties' claims on
the disputed areas

                                                          11

                                  Appendix 1:Project Costs

                                  PROJECT CO1 `S SUMMARY
                                                       Local           Foreign        Total
           Project Cost by Component                (US$ Million)   (US$ Million)  (US$ Million)
1. Communication and Advocacy                          0.30             0.76           1.06
2. Strengthening HIV Surveillance System               0.50             1.11           1.61
3. Targeted Interventionsfor Vulnerable Groups at      0.60             3.46          4.06
   HighRisk
4. Program Management, Capacity-Building,
   Monitoring and Innovation Initiative                1.10             0.70           1.80
Total Baseline Costs                                   2.50             6.03          8.53
PhysicalContingencies                                  0.40             0.60           1.00
 Price Contingencies                                   0.00             0.47          0.47
Total Project Costs                                    2.90             7.10           10.0
Total Financing Required                               2.90             7.10           10.0

                                  COMPONENT DETAILS
                  Component 1: Communication and Advocacy Component
                       Item                          Year 1      Year2     Year3      Total
Communication and Advocacy                            100,320    658,480    504,400 1,263,200
                       Total                          100,320    658,480    504,400 1,263,200

                 Component 2: Strengthening HIV Surveillance System

                       Item                          Year1      Year2      Year3      Total
Strengtheningof HIV/AIDS Surveillance                260,430     776,070    763,200 1,799,700
                      Total                          260,430     776,070    763,200 1,799,700

         Component 3: Targeted Interventions for Vulnerable Groups at HighRisk




     Component 4: Program Management, Capacity-Building, Monitoring and Innovation
                                           Initiative

                       Item                          Year1      Year2      Year3      Total
BuildingCapacity for Management andMonitoring        153,100     563,500   280,800    997,400
Multi-sector InnovationInitiative                    200,000     400,000   400,000  1,000,000
                      Total                          353.100     963.500   680.800  1.977.400



 Costs including contingencies




                                               12

                            Appendix2: Economicand FinancialAnalysis

ProjectRelationto AfghanistanDevelopmentContext
The project is well situated within the overall development context of Afghanistan as expressed inthe
InterimAfghanistan NationalDevelopment Strategy (I-ANDS)and inthe "Afghanized" MDGtargets
and indicators.
The I-ANDS. One main pillar o f the I-ANDSis to improve the well-being o f the poor through social
protectionas well as to mainstream cross-cutting issues ingender. The project approach to HIV/AIDS
prevention and control will necessarily be cross-cutting due to the multi-sectoral nature of the
response to this disease. Furthermore, HIV/AIDS presents a major economic shock for infected
individuals and their families and preventing infections i s an important form of social protection.
Costs of treatment for illness, and especially the death o f a household member, may push otherwise
economically robust households into poverty (Wagstaff, 2005). One recent study from Vietnam
estimated that, with the exception of households inthe richest quintile, all households with a PLWHA
will fall below the poverty line as a result of the income and expenditure effects of HIV/AIDS
(United Nations Development Program D D P ] , 2004).

The project focus on targeted interventions (e.g., harm reduction programs) and advocacy efforts
reflects another major theme of the I-ANDS. This theme looks to strengthen protection of human
rights for all and assure redress for violations. Attempts to reduce the social stigma of, and provide
health services to, at risk and vulnerable groups will have the additional advantage of improving the
human rights situation for these socially marginalizedgroups.

The "Afghanized" MDGs. The "Afghanized" MDGs, as they relate to HIV/AIDS, aim to halt and
reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS by 2020 and the MDG monitoring includes monitoring of the
condom use rate, the percent of the adult population with knowledge o f HIV/AIDS, and the HIV
prevalence rate among groups at high risk. The MDGtargets also include the proportion of injecting
drug users intreatment by 2015. Project activities will contribute to all o fthese outcome measures.

Justification for GovernmentFinancing

Public financing o f the project is justified because of the positive externalities associated with
preventing HIV transmission and because of the public goods nature o f advocacy and other
communication efforts, the establishment of a second-generation HIV surveillance system, and the
piloting of treatment programs among vulnerable groups at high risk.Equity considerations are also
relevant as part of the overall economic justification for the project; as suggested above the
microeconomic impact of HIV infection on households is severe. An additional important externality
of the project arises as a consequence of a reduction in the incidence of HIV/AIDS - an expected
corresponding reduction in opportunistic infectious and costly diseases such as pulmonary
tuberculosis will further reduce the burden on households and the Afghan health system. Given the
public health nature of the interventions supported through the project andtheir large externalities, the
GOAhas a central role insupportingactivities inthis area.

EconomicAnalysis
The project will fund activities in three broad HIV related components: (a) harm reduction programs
and other behavioral interventions (including behavior change communication (BCC) focused on
reducing stigma and discrimination) that aim principally to reduce the transmission of HIV; (b) the
establishment of a second generation surveillance system; and (c) policy and program development
on a pilot basis, including substitution treatment for IDUs. Each of these three components will be
discussedseparately inthis economic analysis.


                                                   13

Harm Reduction Activities

The cost effectiveness o f reducing HIV transmission has been demonstrated in numerous global
settings. These findings are partly due to the simple fact that the disease largely affects prime age
adults and the associated costs o f an adult death constitute the key microeconomic impact o f the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. Over the course of the disease, household labor quality and quantity are
reduced, initially as the infected person i s less productive, and subsequently with their death. This
cost o f foregone earnings i s one major microeconomic cost o f the disease. These costs are
exacerbated when there is more than one infectedperson inthe household, which is not unusual given
the nature o f transmission. Other major costs include health care needs and the foregone earnings of
family caretakers.

The general success o f HIV prevention interventions, including harm reduction interventions for
IDUs, is another reason for its general cost-effectiveness. International and regional evidence,
including in resource constrained settings, demonstrate HIV prevention programs do indeed reduce
HIV transmissions (Bertozzi et al., 2006). HIV prevention interventions are most timely -many more
infections are preventable - in countries where the epidemic is growing rapidly rather than in
countries where it i s stable or declining. This is the case in Afghanistan where the epidemic i s
believedto be growing but concentrated in several key sub-groups, mainly IDUs.

IDUshave been the starting point o f the HIV epidemic in many East and South Asian countries and
the focus o f this project on the reduction in HIV transmission among IDUs as well as across to other
groups i s well justified. Usingthe Asian Epidemic Model, Saidel et al., (2003) demonstrated that in
countries where the epidemic among IDUsstarts in advance o f a generalized (non-IDU) heterosexual
epidemic there i s a 171 percent increase over a 15 year period in infections if IDU prevalence i s not
kept under control.

The total costs o f the program are well-anticipated, yet the proposed program will occur in an
environment with other donor supported HIV/AIDS activities coordinated under the National
Framework and the POP. Bank-funded activities, however, will focus on reducing transmission
(including the piloting o f substitution therapy) among the groups most urgently requiring
interventions for the future health o f the country.

Through the targeted interventions, the project will directly benefit socially excluded groups such as
IDUsand SWs. This is true for harm reduction as stated above. It should also be true for behavioral
change communication and stigma reduction since changing popular attitudes towards PLWHAs as
well as attitudes towards vulnerable groups should at the very least increase the effectiveness o f harm
reduction interventions. As these socially excluded groups find increased social acceptance, at least
among important contact populations such as health workers, they will be more likely to respond to
public or NGO sponsored interventions.

The economic analysis here attempts to assess the net impact o f the program's package o f behavioral
interventions. Towards this goal it adopts a cost-benefit approach couched in the general
epidemiological patterns observed in Afghanistan's neighbors. This approach i s adopted because,
largely as a result o f the longstanding conflict, the absence o f a surveillance system on HIV/AIDS in
the country and current reliance on sporadic and unsystematic data make it very difficult to (a)
determine the magnitude o f the actual epidemic today; (b) understand the dynamics o f transmission;
and (c) assess the potential for its further diffusion.




                                                     14

However, what information exists suggests a potentialfor rapid increase indiseaseprevalence:

        (a) Countries experiencing war or in complex emergency states, like Afghanistan, are
             particularly vulnerable to rapid HIV transmission (Wollants et al., 1995; Smallman-
             Raynor and Cliff, 1991). Factors related to increased transmission during war include
             poverty, displacement of a population with high HIV prevalence to areas of lower
             prevalence, and sexual abuse or use of sex as a survival commodity. Additionally,
             populations within post-conflict states experience psychological effects that lead to
             increasedriskbehavior.

        (b) Limitedhealth care and education also contribute to the continuation of risk behaviors,
             particularly among IDUs. Displaced Afghan heroin users exhibit less knowledge
             regarding HIV transmission and engage in high-risk behavior when compared to
             Pakistani heroin users (Zafar at al., 2003). A recent study o f 464 IDUs in Kabul found
             that 35 percent claimed to have ever shared syringes, 76 percent had ever paid for sex
             with a woman, 27 percent had ever had sex with other medboys, 19 percent had ever
             been in prison, and 4 percent had ever been paid for donating blood. In this sample 3
             percent were already HIV sero-positive and 37 percent carried the Hepatitis C virus
             (Todd et al., 2006).

        (c) Afghanistan is re-emergingas the leading supplier of opium inthe global market. Heroin
             use is widespread in Afghanistan and though injection i s not a common route of
             administration traditionally, this is increasing as displaced persons returnto Afghanistan
             with injection techniques learned in bordering countries (IRINews.org, 2004). UNODC
             estimates there are 50,000 narcotics addicts in Afghanistan, o f which 7,000 inject. They
             also estimate that a large number of people are injecting over the counter
             pharmaceuticals (e.g., pentazocin) which suggests there may be as many as 19,000 IDUs
             inAfghanistan at risk for acquiringHIV(UNODC, 2006).

        (d) Central and South Asia are experiencing a rapid increase in HIV cases introduced by
             injection drug use and the commercial sex trade (Joint United Nations Programme on
             HIV and AIDS [UNAIDS], 2006). Iranhasthe highest rate ofheroinaddiction per capita
             inthe world: 20 percent of Iranians aged 15 to 60 are engaged in drug abuse 9 to 16
                                                                                              -
             percent of whom inject drugs. Twenty-three percent of IDUs in Tehran are HIV positive
             (Zamani et al., 2006), this is an increase from 15 percentjust one year earlier (Zamani et
             al., 2005).

The HIV/AIDS epidemic in the Islamic Republic of Iran appears to be accelerating at an alarming
rate. The Iranian HIV adult prevalence rate in 2001 stood at less then 0.1 percent, roughly where
Afghanistan stands today. By 2006 there were 66,000 HIV positive adults in Iran, or 0.2 percent of
the adult population (UNAIDSAVorld Health Organization [WHO], 2006). The Iranian experience
may be particularly relevant for the future of the epidemic in Afghanistan. A 2005 United Nations
Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) report found that at least 50 percent of injecting drug users in
Afghanistan reported to have started in Iran. In addition, the genotype o f the virus identified in a
recent sero-prevalence study is identical to that found among IDUs in Iran (Todd et al., 2006).

IfAfghanistan were to follow the Iranian example then an increasefrom less than 0.1 percentofthe
general adult population (15-49) to 0.2 percent over five years represents a minimum o f 16,000 new
infections (assuming a mortality rate of 15 percent over the next five years for individuals already or
soon to be HIV-positive). This hypothetical course of the epidemic in Afghanistan serves as the
baseline progression of the disease for this economic analysis.


                                                    15

The impact o f the project can be modeled as a series o f harm reduction interventions that affect the
transmission rates within and across vulnerable groups as well as across to the general population.
The likely impact o f the proposed interventions on transmission is treated as a random variable with
hypothesized distributions. The analysis then adopts Monte Carlo methods to generate a distribution
o f anticipated total benefits, at the national level, to compare with costs.

The assumed impact ontransmission of the project inits entirety is set at the deliberately conservative
expected value o f a 30 percent reduction in expected infections over the period 2007-2010
(approximately equal to 4800 infections averted). In other words, disease prevalence in the overall
adult population in five years time would be 0.03 percent less as a result o f the program if the
trajectory o f the epidemic would have followed the Iranian pattern. To account for heterogeneity in
project outcomes, we assume a standard deviation o f 25 percent, or 1200 infections averted. In each
simulation, a new draw o f infections averted is taken from this distribution in order to explore
benefits o f the project under various levels o f effectiveness.

The monetized benefits from a reduced number o f HIV infections are here determined as the sum o f
three factors: the costs o f medical treatment foregone, the value o f lost earnings for PLWHAs given
increased mortality, and the value o f lost earnings for the typically familial and unpaid caretakers.
Table 1 gives the summary cost parameters used inthe analysis. The analysis makes no attempt either
to directly value the years o f life lost due to premature mortality or to cost the pecuniary savings from
a reduction intuberculosis and other opportunistic infections transmitted to HIV-negative individuals.
Clearly, taking these values into account will substantially increase the estimated benefits depicted
here.

The number o f productive work years lost to premature HIV-related death is assumed to average 20
years across individuals. Wage and earnings information for Afghan workers are incomplete and
often o f questionable validity. One careful small-scale longitudinal study conducted in three urban
centers (Kabul, Herat, Jalalabad) estimates mean annual earnings to be US$425 (Beall & Schutte,
2006). Since this study spans a 12-month period it includes seasonal spells o f under- and un-
employment. Approximately 80 percent o f earners are male, so this wage estimate is heavily
weighted towards male earners. However this may not introduce much bias since the majority of
IDUs are male and correspondingly many o f the infections in the next few years are expected to be
male. Real wages are set to grow an average o f 3 percent a year (in-line with economic projections),
with a standard deviation o f 0.5 percent. This additional source o f variation ensures that every
simulation will have unique real wage growth rates.

When infected individuals fall sick, they need care and the cost o f foregone earnings for the care-
takers is another substantial cost. For example in Vietnam, three-quarters o f PLWHAs interviewed in
a recent UNDP sponsored qualitative study claimed they required the assistance o f a caregiver on
average for five hours a day. A quarter o f caregivers reported having to give up a job in order to
spend time with the infected person (UNDP, 2004). This analysis sets the expected earnings loss for
caregivers at one half o f annual earnings, and this loss occurs in the final year o f life for PLWHAs
when they are most in need o f homecare.

The expected lifespan, after infection, o f a PLWHA is assumed to be nine years and an enhanced
level o f health care will be necessary in the final five years, with the final year o f life preoccupied
with even greater medical care (Zaba et al., 2004). Little information on the costs o f care for
PLWHAs, both out-of-pocket private expenditures and public sector spending, exists in Afghanistan.
One linked facility and household survey estimates that 49 percent o f total Afghan health spending
was out-of-pocket private expenditure (Johns Hopkins Unit, 2006). The same study estimates that the
average monthly expenditure for a sick adult presenting to a health facility is US$20. This analysis


                                                        16

assumes that after an HIV positive individual begins to suffer from opportunistic infections and falls
ill,bythe fifthyear ofinfection, s/he willpresentthreetimes annuallyto ahealthfacility, for an
average private cost o f US$60 a year. The study further assumes an equal amount o f resources in the
public sector are devoted to that individual's care (since the amount o f spending in the health system
from private and public sources i s estimated to be roughly equal).

It is to be expected that this level o f care, for the maintenance o f OIs, will be necessary for several
years, while in the final year the costs are expected to rise substantially. The same UNDP sponsored
Vietnam study referenced above found that the average per capita health expenditure per PLWHA
rose seven fold in the final year o f life (UNDP, 2004). This study takes the same multiplier and
applies it in the Afghan context. Hence, both public and private spending inthe final year o f life for a
PLWHA averages US$420 each.

The analysis also adopts a discount rate o f 5 percent, a typical value for the evaluation o f health
projects. Table 2 presents the range o f benefit-cost figures as determined inthe Monte-Carlo analysis.
The total gross program cost is US$10 million over three years, yielding a net present value o f
US$9.40 million given the anticipated disbursement schedule. The median present value o f total costs
averted i s estimated at US$30.8 million, yielding a gross benefit-cost ratio o f 3.28. Indeed almost
every point in the range o f possible outcomes, depicted in the kernel density plot in Figure 1, i s
associated with a substantially higher present value o f total costs averted. Inonly one simulation (out
o f 500) is the estimated gross benefit less than cost. Where gross benefits exceed costs, the benefit-
cost ratio ranges over the interval (1.16, 6.14).

The median present value o f savings to the healthcare system due to reduced system expenditures on
PLWHAs is estimated at US$2.04 million, resulting in a net program cost o f US$7.36 million and a
net benefit-cost ratio o f 4.19. Where net benefits exceed costs (which occurs in 499 out o f 500
simulations), the benefit-cost ratio ranges over the substantially longer interval (1-25, 9.00). These
ranges o f gross and net benefit-cost ratios calculated here are consistent with the ratios found in other
countries in the region, especially when the conservative estimates o f program impact are taken into
account. Even with these very conservative assumptions on program impact, made in a data scarce
environment, the anticipated net benefits are substantial.

StrengtheningHIV Surveillance

The cost to Afghan society o f the proposed new surveillance system for HIV/AIDS, which the project
would support over the first three years o f operation, would be the cost o f establishing the new system
and subsequently the cost o f operating the system as per its design. This component is currently
valued at a total cost o f US$1.6 million. Onthe benefits side, the economic benefits that would accrue
to society from the new HIV surveillance system are those discussed above, namely the costs o f
medical treatment foregone and the value o f avoided lost earnings for both HIV patients and unpaid
caretakers.

In practice, estimating distinct benefits as a direct result o f surveillance independent o f the overall
package o f interventions and investments would be very difficult. Instead the influence o f the new
system on actual health outcomes is reflected in the analysis above in so far as a functioning HIV
surveillance system will increase the efficacy and targeting o f harm reduction programs. Indeed ifthe
surveillance framework does substantially improve the effectiveness o f interventions, then the true
benefits estimated above may be even greater than depicted.




                                                     17

Nevertheless, there are several dependent processes nested in the establishment and operation o f a
surveillance system that need be made explicit. For any economic benefits to arise it would be
necessary that:

        (a)  Competent and qualified personnel are identified and recruited to the organizations
             charged with establishing and maintainingthe surveillance system.

        (b) The surveillance system collects reasonably accurate information on HIV/AIDS as per
             its design.

        (c)  Relevant personnel process such information into meaningful reports and ensure the
             dissemination o f the reports in a timely fashion to those officials in place that are able to
             utilize them for policy purposes.

        (d) The reports result in effective action taken by the relevant decision makers inthe public
             or private sectors, which in turn improves the delivery o f services on the ground in a
             way that results inthe prevention o f a number o f cases o f the disease or a more effective
             treatment for those already afflicted.

Program design must be such to ensure that these steps are accomplished.

PilotTreatment Programsfor IDUs

The program and policy component o f the project includes the establishment o f harm reduction and
substitution treatment programs among IDUs. Given the current lack o f such programs, and the
importance o f IDUs as a group in the transmission o f the disease, the need to develop cost-effective
procedures to treat IDUs for substance dependency is an important component in GOA'Soverall
response to the HIV epidemic. The chief economic benefit o f any pilot arises from the externalities
from learning-by-doing. It i s expected that after several years o f experience with the treatment of
IDUsGOAwill be able to implement effective substitution treatment programsfor IDUs.Because the
value o f the pilot lies in the learning opportunities, a formal cost-benefit analysis i s not applicable
unless the externalities are adequately understood and converted to a monetary value. However the
analysis notes that the project should ensure as many key preconditions as possible so that the pilot
exercise will indeed be a valuable learning tool for the GOA.

The key preconditions for a successful IDU drug substitution pilot include the following: thorough
training and adequate supervision and regulation o f clinic staff; a procurement and distribution system
that can ensure timely delivery o f medication to groups in need; the medication being included in the
essential drug list; a M&E system that is able to accurately forecast demand for services and to plan
accordingly; and effective cross-sectoral cooperation among all involved ministries, including the
Ministries o f Interior and Justice.

FiscalSustainability

The completion o f the project will bequeath modest recurrent costs to GOA.The estimated recurrent
costs engendered by the project, listed separately by main areas o f activity, are presented in Table 3.

The burden o f recurrent government expenditures generated by the proposed project is estimated to
equal US$2,976,000 per year after project completion. The uses o f recurrent expenditures falling to
the central government include the continuing activities o f national BCC, the continued operation o f
the HIV surveillance framework, and the on-going harm reduction activities.



                                                    18

This amount is relatively small (2.1 percent) in comparison with the total health sector Government
spending, which is currently US$140 million per year (including donor support) and expected to
increase substantially inthe comingyears. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth is projected at
12 percent in 2007/08 and 10 percent from 2008/09 onwards. In addition, the share of government
health expenditures in total GDP is expect to increase 40 percent by 2009/10 (IMF, 2006). This
anticipated growth implies that the inherited recurrent spending will total only 1.2 percent of the
public sector healthbudgetby 2009/10.

Furthermore, the budgetary impact of the project recurrent expenditures may very well be over-
estimated. The economic analysis for this project determinedthat the direct costs averted within the
healthsector as a result of fewer infectionsmay also lessenthe budgetary burden.


Figure 1. Distribution of costs averted as a result of harm reduction interventions sponsored by the AF-HIVIAIDS Prevention Project




                0                             20000000                           40000000                     60000000
                                                    Value of infections averted (USD)
               Dashed line depicts total discounted cost of project




                                                              19

Table 1.Cost parameters

Average annual earnings of all workers                             $425.0

Mean annual real wage growth (random variable)                       3.0%
Standard deviation of annual real wage growth                        0.5%

Average wage loss for caregivers, in final year of illness         $212.0

Average private health care costs, excepting final year of life     $60.0
Average public health care costs, excepting final year of life      $60.0

Average private health care costs in final year of life            $420.0
Average public health care costs in final year of life             $420.0

Assumed discount rate                                                5.0%




                                                    20

U
m
c
8
8

References

Beall,Jo and StefanSchutte.2006. "Urban LivelihoodsinAfghanistan". AfghanistanResearchand
EvaluationUnit, Synthesis Paper Series.
Bertozzi, Stefan0 andothers. 2006. "HIWAIDS PreventionandTreatment". InDiseaseControl
PrioritiesinDevelopingCountries, SecondEdition,editedby DeanT. Jamison andothers. Oxford
UniversityPressandthe WorldBank.
IMF.2006. "Islamic Republicof Afghanistan-Draft StaffReport for FirstReviewunderthe Three-
Year Arrangement underthe PRGF".
1RINews.org.Accessed September 12, 2004. "Bitter-sweet harvest:Afghanistan's new war: IRIN
web special onthe threat ofopiumto Afghanistan andthe region.Addiction: drugabuseinKabulcity
andbeyond." UNOffice for the Coordinationof HumanitarianAffairs.
http://www,irinnews.org/webspecials/Opium/addadd.asp
Johns HopkinsUniversityThirdParty EvaluationTeam. 2006. "Health SeekingBehavior,Health
Expenditures, and Cost SharingPractices inAfghanistan."Draftmanuscript.
Saidel, T. et al. 2003. "Potential Impactsof HIV amongIDUson HeterosexualTransmissioninAsian
Settings: Scenarios from the AsianEpidemicModel". International Journal ofDrugPolicy, 14: 63-74.
Smallman-Raynor, M.R., andA.D. Cliff. 1991. "Civil war andthe spread ofAIDS in CentralAfrica."
EpidemiolInfect, 107: 69-80.
Todd, Catherine, AbdullahAbed, Steffanie Strathdee, Boulos Botros, NaqibullahSafi, andKenneth
Earhart.2006. "Prevalence o f HIV, viral hepatitis, syphilis, andrisk behaviors amongIDUsinKabul,
Afghanistan." Presentation.
UNAIDS.2006. "Report onthe GlobalAIDS Epidemic 2006". WHO, Geneva.
UNDPDraftConsultant Report.2004. Socio-EconomicImpactof HIVIAIDS inViet Nam.
UNODC.GovernmentofAfghanistanMinistry of CounterNarcotics. AfghanistanDrugUse Survey
2005.
UNODC. 2006 World drugreport.Geneva: UnitedNationsOffice on DrugsandCrime, 2006.
Wagstaff, Adam. 2005. "The EconomicConsequencesofHealth Shocks". The World Bank, Policy
ResearchWorkingPaper Series #3644.
Wollants, E., M.Schoenenberg,C. Figueroa, G. Shor-Posner,W. Klaskala,andM.K.Baum. 1995.
"Risk factors andpatterns ofHIV-1transmission inthe El Salvador military duringwar time." AIDS,
9: 12919-1292.
Zaba, Basia, Alan Whiteside, andJ. Ties Boerma. "Demographic and socio-economic impactof
AIDS: taking stock ofthe empiricalevidence". AIDS, 18(suppl2):Sl-S7.
Zafar, T., Brahmbhatt, H.,Imam, G., ulHassan, S., Strathelee, S.A.2003. "HIV knowledgeandrisk
behaviorsamongPakistaniandAfghani drugusers inQuetta, Pakistan." J. AcquiredImmuneDefic.
Syndr.32:394-398
Zamani, S. et al. 2005. "Prevalence of andfactors associatedwith HIV-1 infectionamong drug users
visitingtreatment centers inTehran, Iran." AIDS, 19:709-716.
Zamani,S. et al. 2006. "High prevalenceof HIV infectionsassociatedwith incarcerationamong
community-based injectingdrug users inTehran, Iran." JournalofAcquiredImmuneDeficiency
Syndromes, 42:342-246.



                                                 22

                Appendix 3: ProcurementArrangements and ProcurementPlan


Country Context


The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding of the procurement environment in
Afghanistanthrough its involvement in the interim procurement arrangements put in place through
EmergencyPublic AdministrationProject(EPAP) as well as with the institutionssuch as Afghanistan
Reconstructionand Development Services (ARDS) that is holding the current responsibility for
government's procurement administration.As part of the broader review of PFM system, the Bank
recently carried out an assessment of the procurement environment in the country based on the
baseline and performanceindicatorsdevelopedby a group of institutions led by the World Bank and
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/Development Assistance
Committee(DAC).

The first key issue identifiedthroughthe procurementassessmentwas the need for ownership and a
championin the Government for reform, deepeningof capacity, ensuring integrity inthe operation of
procurement systems, andpromotingsoundprocurement amongministries.

A new procurement law was adopted in November 2005 which radically transformed the legal and
regulatoryframework for the procurement administrationof Afghanistan.While it provides a modern
legal system for procurement, effective implementationof the law may encounter difficulties in the
current weak institutional structure and capacity of the Government. A Procurement Policy Unit
(PPU) has been established under MOF to ensure the implementation through the creation of
secondary legislation, preparationof standardbiddingdocuments, provisionof advice and creation of
the necessary information systems for advertising and data collection. Afghanistan Procurement
ProcedureshavebeeneffectivesinceApril 12,2007. Proceduresfor ProcurementAppealand Review
have been developed by PPU/MOF. Members have been appointed and the system has been
functionalsince April 2007.

In the absence of adequate capacity to manage procurement activities effectively, some interim
arrangements have been put in place to improve the procurement management of the country. A
central procurement facilitation service, ARDS, has been established under the supervision of the
Ministry of Economy.The Bank and the Government have agreed on a program for country wide
procurement reform and capacity building, leading to the transitionfrom centralizedto decentralized
procurementservices. The Bank funded Public AdministrationCapacity Buildingproject(PACBP) is
the primary instrumentfor implementingthe programto strengthen capacity of the line ministries to
manage public procurement in an effective, transparent and accountable manner. However, the
implementationof the procurementcapacity buildingstrategy has not made any significant progress
yet due to lack of coordinationand delays indecision makingwithin the Government.The envisaged
radicalchanges to the procurementmanagementenvironment expectedfrom the new law also require
the urgent implementationof a comprehensivehuman resources and capacity development program.
The implementationof the procurement reform component of the PACBP and the proposed Public
FinancialManagementReformProject should be consideredwith due priority to ensurethat fiduciary
standards are further enhanced and that capacity is developed in the Government to maintainthese
standards.

General

The procurement administration of the project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised



                                                23

October 2006, "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated May 2004, revised October 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreement.
The general description of various procurements under different expenditure categories are described
below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame agreed between the
Grant Recipient and the Bank project team are described in the Procurement Plan. This Procurement
Planwill be updated at least annually or at lesser time intervals as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements inthe institutional capacity.

Procurementof Works: The proposed grant will not finance any works contracts.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procuredunder this project would include vehicles. The procurement
will be done usingthe Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the
Bank. Other methods will be shopping and direct contacting. Threshold for NCB goods will be US$
200,000 per contact and for shopping will be US$lOO,OOO per contract.

Selection of Consultants: Consultant firms under the project will include: (a) Communication and
Advocacy (CA); (b) Second Generation Surveillance (SGS); (c) Targeted Interventions (TI) IDU; (d)
Targeted Interventions (TI) - Harm Reduction (HR) with Operation Research; (e) Targeted
Interventions (TI) Sex workers (SW); (f) Targeted Interventions (TI) Prisoners with Operation
Research; and (8) Targeted Interventions (TI) Truckers.

Under Program Management and Capacity Buildingthe following national individual consultants will
be recruited to help build NACP capacity: (a) Project Director; (b) Monitoring and Evaluation
Advisor; (c) Communication and Advocacy Advisor; (d) Harm Reduction Advisor; (e) Vulnerable
Reduction Advisor; (f) Procurement Specialist; and (g) Accountant.

The above individual consultants would be recruitedusing the PPF funds and maintained using the
project funds once it is approved. The Program Manager will be included inthe project budget when
his present contract under the Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development Project
ends in September 2007.

The selection methods for consultants will include QCBS, QBS, CQS, LCS, FBS, SSS and Section V
of Guidelines for individual consultants. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less
than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Threshold for CQS
will be below US$200,000 equivalent per contract.

Specific qualification criteria for selection of consultants under Targeted Intervention will be
incorporated in the TOR as well as in the EO1 for the assignments. All the assignments under
Targeted Intervention will be advertised under one EO1and the option will be givento consultants to
apply for one or more assignments. Consultants applying for more than one assignment should
demonstratetheir capacity to implement the contracts.

RPM Office through an email dated May 19, 2007 has issued a waiver to allow more than six
qualified NGOs in the shortlist as the case may be and to allow a shortlist comprising more than two
local firms for the TI assignments.

Innovation Initiative: An amount of US$l,OOO,OOO has been allocated under the project. The
procedure for use of the fund will be elaborated inthe PIP of the project.




                                                   24

Operational Costs which would be financed by the project would be procured using the
implementing agency's administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the
Bank.

Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the MOPH through GCMU.

An assessment of the capacity of GCMU, the Implementing Agency, to implement procurement
actions for the project, was carried out by World Bank procurement specialists in December 2006.

The G C M U is a group o f individual consultants established in 2003 to carry out procurement
activities for the Bank financed Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development Project,
HSERDP (P078324). The agency is staffed by 30 people and the procurement unit is staffed by four
procurement officers. One o f the four procurement officers is working on procurement o f health
sector goods and the three others are busy with hiring and managing consultant contracts under the
Health Sector EmergencyReconstruction and Development Project.

The procurement specialists responsible for hiring consultants do not have adequate experience. The
procurement officer working on the procurement o f health sector goods i s involved only with
procurement o f small contracts (less than US$200,000) o f health sector goods. Big contracts (more
than US$200,000) o f health sector goods are procured through ARDS. ARDS i s a Government
Procurement FacilitatingAgency.

As previously indicated, the existing procurement personnel: (a) do not have adequate experience for
procuring and managing large value contracts; and (b) are fully busy with their procurement activities
under the Health Project. To mitigate the risk, the following arrangement will be adopted for the
Project:

         (a)  A competent procurement specialist will be hired under GCMU o f MOPH to procure
              small value goods, works and consultancy contracts. The procurement specialist will be
              responsible for     managing procurement for           the  project based on technical
              specifications/TOR provided by NACP. The procurement specialist, if needed, will also
              get help from the procurement team already hired under the IDA financed Health Sector
              Emergency Reconstruction and Development Project (P078324).

         (b) To ensure compliance with World Bank policies and procedures, procurement
              documentation for complex and large value goods and consultancy contracts will be
              carried out in consultation with the ARDS.

The overall project risk for procurement is high.

Frequency of Procurement Supervision: In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried
out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended two
supervision missions to visit the field to carry out post review o f procurement actions. As the overall
project risk for procurement i s high, 20 percent o f contracts will be post reviewed.

Procurementaudit: In addition to the prior review and post review supervisions to be carried out
from Bank offices, an independent procurement audit will also take place duringthe project life.




                                                    25

Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementInvolvingInternationalCompetition

Goods: All contracts estimated to cost above US$200,000 equivalent for goods per contract and all
direct contractingwill be subject to prior review by the Bank.

Consulting Services:

        (a) List of consulting assignmentswith short list of internationalfirms

    1                     2                           1      4     1       5         6           7

                                                                        Review
                                                                          by     Expected
                                         Estimated                       Bank    Proposals
                  Descriptionof           Cost per        Selection     (Prior / Submission
Ref. No.           Assignment             Contract        Method         Post)     Date     Comments


HIV/Con-        Communication and                                        Prior    1 Sep 07  Three years
    1                Advocacy                                                               contract

HIV/Con-          Survey (Second                                                  1 Sep 07  Three years
    2        Generation Surveillance-                                                       contract
               SGS and Knowledge,
             Attitudes, andPractices-
                        KAP

HIV/Con-      TargetedInterventions         $473,200      QBS            Prior    1 Sep 07  Three years
    3         (TI) -Harm Reduction                                                          contract
              (HR) Kabul-District A

HIV/Con-     T I -HR Kabul-District B       $473,200      QBS                     1 Sep07   Three years
    4                                                                    Prior              contract

HIV/Con-    T I -HR Kabul-District C-       $646,200      QBS                     1Sep 07   Threeyears
    5           with Oper Research                                       Prior              contract

HIV/Con-       TI HRCity B Mazari           $473,200      QBS                     1 Sep 07  Three years
    6                   Sharif                                           Prior              contract

HIV/Con-        TI HR City C-Herat          $473,200      QBS                     1 Sep 07  Threeyears
    7                                                 IIII          IIII Prior              contract

HIV/Con-     T I HR City D-Jalalabad        $473,200      QBS            Prior    1 Sep 07  Threeyears
    8                                                                                       contract

HIV/Con-     T I Sex worker (SW) City       $308,300      QBS            Prior    1 Sep 07  Three years
    9                   TBD                                                                 contract

HIV/Con      TI Prisonerswith Oper          $300,300      QBS            Prior    1 Sep 07  Three years
    10               Research                                                               contract

HIV/Con             T I Truckers            $444,000      QBS                     1 Sep 07  Three years
    11                                                I             1    Prior              contract




                                                  26

         (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and all Single
              Source selection of consultants (firms/individual) will be subject to prior review by the
             Bank.


Procurement Plan

General

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Planfor project implementation which provides
the basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed between the Borrower and the Project
Team on May 31,2007 and i s available at GCMU inthe MOPH, Wazir Akbar KhanMina, Charahi-i-
Masood. It will also be available in the Project's database and on the Bank's external website. The
Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Projectinformation:

Country:Islamic Republic o fAfghanistan

ProjectName: Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project P101502

LoadcreditNo.:

ProjectImplementingAgency (PIA): National AIDS Control Program, Ministryof Public Health.

Bank's approval Date ofthe procurement Plan: [Original: May 31,20071

Date o f General Procurement Notice: May 7,2007 and the number is WB1779-703.

Periodcovered by this procurementplan: 1July 2007 to 30 June 2010

Goods and Works and non-consultingservices

Prior Review Threshold:Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as stated in
Appendix 1to the Guidelinesfor Procurement:


                        ProcurementMethod                Prior Review Threshold               Comments

          1.    Goods                                    us$200,000

          2.    Direct Contracting                       All


Prequalification.Bidders for NIL                       shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.

ProposedProceduresfor CDD Components(as per paragraph.3.17 of the Guidelines): NA




                                                   27

Reference to (ifany) Project ImplementationPlan (PIP)/ProcurementManual:

Any Other SpecialProcurementArrangements: NIL

ProcurementPackageswith Methodsand Time Schedule.

 1          2                                        5              6          7           8          9

Ref.   Contract                                 Prequalifi Domestic        Review Expected          Comment
No.    (Descrip                                 -cation       Preference   by         Bid-
       tion)                       Method       (yeslno)       (yeslno)    Bank       Opening
                                                                           (Prior I Date
                                                                           Post)
G-1         2                                      NO             NO          Post    30 Aug 07
       (vehicles
           for
        NACP)                                                                        I            I


Selection of Consultants

Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as stated in
Appendix 1to the Guidelines Selection and Employment o f Consultants:


                        Selection Method                  Prior ReviewThreshold           Comment

         1.    Competitive Methods (Firms)               us$100,000

        2.     Individual                                US$50,000

         3.    Single Source (Firmshndividual)           All

Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list o f consultants for services,
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO    equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely o f national
consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.

Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: Retroactive financing o f up to US$I.O million is
envisaged for the reimbursing related to start-up activities between March 1,2007 and when the grant
agreement is signed. The retroactive fmance can be disbursed only after the grant becomes effective.




                                                  28

Consultancy Assignmentswith SelectionMethodsand Time Schedule 1           1
    1                  2                      3      4             5             6              7
                                  Estimated Cost
 Ref. No.      Descriptionof      per Contract    Selection     Review       Expected      Comments
                 Assignment                       Method        by Bank      Proposals
                                                                (Prior I     Submission
                                                 QBs             Post)         Date
HIVICon-1    Communicationand      US$1,063,200                  Prior        1 Sep07      Three years
                  Advocacy                                                                   contract
HIVICon-2      Survey (Second                                                              Threeyears
                  Generation                                                                 contract
               Surveillance-SGS
               and Knowledge,
                Attitudes, and
                Practices-KAP
HIVICon-3          Targeted          US$473,200 QBS              Prior        1 Sep07     Three years
              Interventions(TI)-                                                          contract
               Harm Reduction
             (HR) Kabul-District
                       A
HIVICon-4       TI -HR Kabul-    I   US$473,200 QBS
                                                I                             1 Sep07     Three years
                                                                                          contract
HIVICon-5                                                                                 Three years
             District C-with Oper                                                         contract

HIVICon-6                                                                                 Three years
                                                                                          contract
HIVICon-7                                                                                 Three years
                                                                                          contract
HIVICon-8                                                                                 Three years
                                                                                          contract
HIVICon-9                                                                                 Threeyears
                                                                                          contract
 HIVICon                                                                                  Three years
    10                                                                                    contract
 HIVICon                                                                                  Threeyears
    11                                                                                    contract
HIVICon-                                                                                   Hiredunder
    12                                                                                    healthproject
HIVICon-                                                                                   To be hired
    13                                                                                     under PPF
HIVICon-                                                                                  To be hired
    14                                                                                    under PPF
HIVICon-                                                                                  To be hired
    15                                                                                    under PPF
HIVCon 16                                                                                 To be hired
                                                                                          under PPF
 HIVICon                                                                                  To be hired
    17                                                                                    under PPF
 HIVICon         Accountant                                                               To be hired
    18                                                                                    under PPF

Agreed Procedures for NationalCompetitiveBidding

In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of
Section Io f the Procurement Guidelines, the following criteria will be followed in procurement under
National Competitive Biddingprocedures:



                                                 29

(a) Standardbiddingdocumentsapprovedby the World Bankwill be used.

(b) Invitationsto bidwill be advertised inat least one (1) widely circulatednationaldaily
    newspaperandbiddingdocumentswill bemadeavailable to prospective bidders, at least
   twenty eight(28) days priorto the deadline for the submissionofbids.

(c) Bidswill not be invitedonthe basis ofpercentagepremiumor discount over the
    estimatedcost.

(d) Biddingdocumentswill bemade available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing
    to pay the requiredfee.

(e) Foreignbidderswill notbeprecludedfrom bidding.

(f) Qualificationcriteria(incase pre-qualificationswere not carriedout) will be statedon
    the biddingdocuments, and ifa registrationprocessis required, a foreignfirm
    determinedto bethe lowestevaluatedbidderwill be givenreasonable opportunityof
    registering,without any hindrance.

(g) Biddersmay deliverbids, at their option, either inpersonor by courier service or by
    mail.

(h) All bidderswill providebidsecurity as indicatedinthe biddingdocuments.A bidder's
    bidsecurity will apply only to a specific bid.

(i)Bidswill   be openedinpublic inone placepreferablyimmediately,but no laterthan one
    hour, after the deadline for submissionofbids.

6)  Evaluationofbids will bemade in strict adherenceto the criteriadisclosed inthe
    biddingdocuments, ina format, andwithinthe specifiedperiod, agreedwith the
    Association.

(k) Bidswill not be rejectedmerelyon the basis of a comparisonwith an official estimate
    without the prior concurrenceofthe IDA.

(1) Split awardor lotteryinawardofcontractswill notbe carriedout. Whentwo (2) or
    morebidders quote the same price,an investigationwill be madeto determine any
    evidenceof collusion, followingwhich:(a) ifcollusion is determined, the parties
    involvedwill be disqualifiedandthe awardwill then be madeto the next lowest
    evaluatedandqualifiedbidder;and(b) ifno evidence of collusioncan be confirmed,
    thenfresh bids will be invitedafter receivingthe concurrenceofthe IDA;

(m) Contracts will be awardedto the lowestevaluatedbidderswithin the initial periodof bid
    validity so that extensionsare not necessary.Extensionof bidvalidity may be sought
    only underexceptionalcircumstances.

(n) Extensionof bidvalidity will not be allowedwithoutthe prior concurrence ofthe IDA
    (a) for the first requestfor extensionif it is longerthan eight (8) weeks; and(b) for all
    subsequentrequestsfor extensionsirrespective ofthe period.

(0) Negotiationswill not be allowedwith the lowest evaluatedor any other bidders.



                                          30

(p) Re-biddingwill notbecarried out withoutthe IDA'Sprior concurrence; and

(9) All contractors or supplierswill provideperformancesecurity as indicatedinthe
    contract documents.A contractor's or a supplier's performancesecurity will apply to a
    specific contract under whichit was furnished.




                                        31

                            Appendix 4: FinancialManagement

Country Issues

The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding of the financial management
environment inAfghanistanthroughthe large number of projectsunder implementationover the
past four years. The PACBP is the primary instrument to continue and enhance the fiduciary
measuresput in place duringthe past years to help ensure transparency and accountabilityfor the
fundingprovidedby the Bank and other donors.

A PFM performance rating system using 28 high-level indicators that was developed by the
Public Expenditureand FinancialAccountability (PEFA) multi-agencypartnership program was
applied in Afghanistan in June 2005. PEFA is comprised of the World Bank, IMF, EC, and
severalother agencies.The system is structuredaroundsix core dimensions of PFMperformance:
(a) budget credibility; (b) comprehensiveness and transparency; (c) policy-basedbudgeting; (d)
predictability and control in budget execution; (e) accounting, recording, and reporting; and (f)
external scrutiny and audit. Afghanistan's ratings against the PFM performance indicators
generally portraya public sector where financial resourcesare, by and large, being usedfor their
intended purposes. This has been accomplished with very high levels of support from
internationalfirms; this assistance will continue to be needed over the medium term if these
ratingsare to be maintained. There is also muchroomfor improvement.

In spite of undeniable gains made in reconstructionsince the end of 2001, the challenges facing
Afghanistanremainimmense; not least becauseofthe tenuous security situationinthe regionand
continued prevalence of a large illegal and illicit economy. The policy framework benchmarks
have not yet been fully costed so various priorities are funded through the annual budgeting
process. The rising costs of the security sector constitute the major constraint on attainment of
fiscal sustainability. With regard to executive oversight, the national assembly will play an
increasinglyactive role.All in all, the new national strategy has created high expectations of the
executivewhich couldproveto be quite difficult to meet.

The public sector, in spite o f considerable efforts to reform its core functions, remains extremely
weak outside of Kabul.The lack ofqualifiedstaffinthe civil service andthe absenceof qualified
counterparts in the government after 30 years of war and conflicts is a bindingconstraint.Delays
in reformingthe pay structure and grading of civil servants have severely crippled the public
administration of the country. Domesticrevenues lag behind expenditures by a factor of ten to
one. Large-scalecorruptioncould emerge to underminethe government's efforts to enhance aid
flows through national accounts. Capacities to track expenditures and monitor expenditure
outcomeshave improved, butthey needrapidand substantialstrengtheningifprogresstowardthe
attainment of nationaldevelopment targets is to be monitored.Currently, 75 percent of external
revenuesbypassgovernment appropriationsystems.

The World Bank is financing a FinancialManagementAdvisor to assist the Ministry of Finance,
an Audit Advisor to assist the Control and Audit Office, and a ProcurementAdvisor to assist in
Procurement-related activities. Also an Internal Audit function is being developed within the
Ministry of Finance with World Bank financing. USAID, and earlier the IndianAid Assistance
Program, is financing a team of consultants and advisors to assist the Da Afghanistan Bank in
local as well as foreign currency operations. The activities carriedout under the existingPublic
Administration projects have helped the Government to ensure that appropriate fiduciary




                                               32

   standards are maintainedfor public expenditures, includingthose supported by the Bank and the
   donor community.

   Progress has beenslower than expected in shiftingfrom operations support providedby the three
   Advisors to capacity development and knowledge transfer to the civil servants. Giventhat, it is
   expected that the Advisors will continue to be required for the medium term. Challenges still
   remaininattainingthe agreed upon fiduciary standards and also to further enhance them. And to
   make matters more complex, the regulatory environment in Afghanistan has advanced
   significantly in the past three years. Unfortunately, even mastery of basic skills in the early
   environment does not fully qualify the civil servants to work effectively in the new emerging
   environment.

   RiskAssessmentand Mitigation

   The table below identifiesthe key risksthatthe projectmay face and indicateshowthese risks are
   to be addressed.

           Risk                 Risk       RiskMitigation Measures
                              Rating                                      Risk       negotiations,
                                                                                       Boardor
                                                                                     Effectiveness


                                 M       Source PFM study
                                                -
                                 H      Minimize use of Designated
Risk                                    Account, maximize direct
                                        paymentsto consultants; all
                                        procurementthrough
                                        ProcurementAdvisor
PerceivedCorruption              H      Governmentcommitment,
                                         internal controls andnew
                                         internal audit will help to
                                        reduce the high level of
                                        perceived corruption
        Overall Inherent Risk    H
2.       CONTROLRISK
1. Weak Implementing Entity      H      Bulk ofthe implementation
                                        will be through contracts issued
                                        to NGOs and CBOs.

                                        Recruitment of International
                                        Advisor to strengthenthe
                                        management capacity at
                                        NACP.
                                        MOPHhas adequate staffing in
                                         GCMUto implement the
                                        program; however, a qualified
                                        accountantwill be recruited to
                                         strengthenthe financial
                                        management capacity at
                                        GCMU.
                                        Eachline ministry involvedin
                                        the programwill havea



                                                  33

                               dedicatedmanager and
                               accountingstaff to maintain
                               minimal records andreport on
                               their transactions.
2. FundsFlow                   Payments will be madeto
                               consultants, suppliers,
                               Innovation window recipients,
                               etc. from the Designated
                               Account (DA) by SDU-MoF.
                               Inaddition to paymentsout of
                               DA funds, the implementing
                               entities can also request the
                               SDUto make i)direct
                               paymentsfrom the Credit
                               Account to consultants or
                               consulting f m s , and ii)special
                               commitmentsfor contracts
                               coveredby letters of credit.
                               These paymentswould only be
                               made by SDUafter due
                               processesandproper
                               authorization from the
                               respectivecomponent
                               implementing entities.
3. Budgeting                   A budget committee will be
                               appointedto coordinatethe
                               preparationof annualwork
                               plan andthe derivation of
                               annualbudgetthere from.
                               Representativeswill be from
                               HACCA, NACP, GCMU and
                               MOPH, and shall report to the
                               HACCA.
4. Accounting Policies and     Will follow international
Procedures                     standards. Project accounting
                               proceduresand details ofthe
                               F Marrangements will be
                               documentedinan F MManual
                               to be approvedby the Bank
5. Internal Audit              Newly-created internal audit
                               departmentwill review project
                               internal control systems
6. ExternalAudit               Will be auditedby CAO with          S      N
                               support from Audit Advisor
7. Reporting and Monitoring    Strengtheningthe SDU is a           S      Y
                               priority underthe new FM                Negotiations
                               Advisor contract, to provide
                               information that will comply
                               with agreed format of financial
                               reports.




                                        34

      OVERALL CONTROLRISK           H                                             S
      DETECTION   RISK              S        Adequate accounting,                M               N
                                             recording, and oversight will
                                             be provided inproject
                                             procedures.
                                             AccountingRecordingIoversig
                                             htby SDU-MOF of all
                                             advanceshl-16 supportedby
                                             Financial Management
                                             Advisor.
   RISK RATING.' H=HIGHRISK;
         S=SUBSTANTIAL RISK;
 hf=MODEST RISK: L-LOWRISK

Strengths and Weaknesses

Strengths

The Government provides assurance to the Bank and other donors that the measures in place to
ensure appropriate utilization o f funds will not be circumvented. The Government support for PACBP
is strength in itself to enhance financial management in Treasury operations, public procurement,
internal audit inthe public sector, and external audit by the Auditor General. This i s the second IDA-
funded grant for MOPH so the agency has experience in implementing Bank projects and following
Bank procedures.

Weaknessesand ActionPlan
The main weakness in this project, as in many others in Afghanistan, is the ability to attract suitably
qualified and experienced counterpart staff especially for Financial Management. The additional staff
to be funded by the project, together with intensive training programs included in this project, is
expected to strengthen the fiduciary arrangements.

ActionPlan

          Significant                           Action                 Responsable Agent    Completion
          Weaknesses                                                                           Date
Shortage of qualified              Appointment of an FMS in            MOPH                15" June 2007
And experiencedFMstaff              GCMU and an International
                                   Advisor inNACP.
Project internal controls and Financial ManagementManual                                   15" June
proceduresneedto be defined      I                -                    MOPH
                                    developed                                            I2007

reauired &formation              I renort formats c o n f i e d       I(DBER'I           I negotiations I

ImplementingEntity
The institutional framework i s in place, assigning the program coordination, management and
technical roles to MOPWNACP and the financial management and procurement responsibilities to
the MOPWGCMU, under the overall oversight o f the multi sector HACCA. Technical working
groups are being established (Le., HIV Surveillance WG) by the NACP to guide its work program,
drawing on available technical experts from professional, academic, research or other organizations
within the country. These technical working groups will report to NACP, which inturn, presents the
recommendations o f the technical working groups to the HACCA for endorsement. The MOPH will
contract the surveillance and communications components o f the project to agencies that can carry


                                                     35

out those functions while developing and transferring capacity in these areas. The targeted
interventions for the prevention of HIV among IDUs, sex workers and their clients, truckers and
prisons will be contracted to NGOs and CBOs with experience working with the communities at risk.
Non-health ministries, the private sector and NGOs will be able support or implement HIV prevention
programs, funded through the Innovation Initiative, by preparing proposals to be reviewed by a multi
sector review panel ledby the NACP, and reportingto the HACCA.

Specifically, the roles of the NACP, GCMU and HACCA are as follows:

National AIDS Control Program. NACP will lead the implementation o f the proposed project, in
close coordination with relevant departments within MOPH, Le., Reproductive Health, Mental
HealtWDrug Demand Reduction, IEC, Environmental Health, and M&E Departments and with key
non-health sectors. The targeted intervention activities will be contracted out to NGOs. The
strengthening of surveillance and the communications components will also be contracted to
organizations with experience in carrying out and buildingcapacity inthese areas. MOPH has a good
track record of implementing the Emergency Health Project, which includes the NGO-contracting
approach to service delivery. In fact, the civil society involvement i s even more relevant to the
HIV/AIDS prevention efforts, because the vulnerable population groups are particularly difficult to
reach through governmental channels and needto be involved for effective coverage and quality. The
proposed multi sector Innovation Initiative under AHAPP will be managed by the MOPH, reporting
to HACCA. A multi sector review panel, chaired by the NACP, will approve proposals to the
InnovationInitiative from non-healthsectors.

HIVIAIDS Coordination Committee of Afghanistan. HACCA has been established by MOPH to
ensure a broad-based and inclusive oversight mechanism. This multi sector committee is chaired by
the DeputyMinister for Technical Affairs of MOPH, and includes the participation of key ministries,
agencies from public and private sectors, civil society and external development partners. While
HACCA ensures multi sector coordination and oversees the broad Program Operational Plan (POP),
the MOPHhasthe technical lead role, and provides the programmatic accountability for NACP.

Grants and Contracts Management Unit.The head of the accounting department for GCMU inMOPH
will take responsibility for the financial management activities of the program. GCMU will carry out
the day-to-day financial management operations of the project, preparation of M-16 forms (payment
orders), preparation of summary reportshimplified statements of expenditures, coordination with
other line ministries involved in the program and overall contract and project management. This
department is adequately staffed with FMpersonnel who are efficiently managing all current external
grants including the IDA Health Sector Project. However, a qualified and experienced procurement
specialist and accountant are being recruited by MOPH to strengthen the financial management and
procurement capacity of GCMU to managethe additional contracts under this project.

Budgeting
A PlanningCommittee will be appointed to coordinate the preparation o f annual work plans and the
derivation of annual budgets. This committee will be made up of representatives from the HACCA,
NACP, GCMU, and MOPH and shall report to the HACCA. The Planning Committee shall also
coordinate quarterly budget reviews to ensure adequate budget discipline and control. The committee
will be responsible for ensuring that project expenditures for each fiscal year are captured in the
Governmental Development budget of that fiscal year. The MOPH must get approvals from the
presidential office and the parliament and attach them to B27 and PCS forms at the time of requesting
yearly allotments for contracts under the project to avoid delays in payment processing.




                                                   36

FundsFlow
The standard funds flow mechanism inAfghanistan will be followed inthis project. Project funds will
be deposited in the DA to be opened and maintained at the D a Afghanistan Bank (DaB). The DA, in
keeping with current practices for other projects in Afghanistan, will be operated by the SDU in the
Treasury Department o f MOF. Requests for payments from the DA will be made to the SDU by the
G C M U M O P Hwhen needed.

In addition to payments out of DA funds, the GCMUMOPH can also request the SDU to make (a)
direct payments from the Grant Account to contractors, consultants or consulting firms; (b) transfer
sub-grant amounts to beneficiaries (awarded out o f the Innovation Initiative component); and (c)
request issuance o f special commitments for contracts covered by letters o f credit. These payments
will follow World Bank procedures. All project payments will be made to either international firms,
local firms or individuals or sub-grant recipients that have bank accounts in DaB, a local commercial
bank, or an overseas bank. All payments will be made either through bank transfers into the account
o f such firms or by check. Expenditures for each component will be paid centrally from MOPH in
accordance with the approvalmechanisms documented inthe HIV/AIDS project FMManual.

Payments to line ministries, community NGOs and the private sector from the Innovation window
will be based on the approved performance agreement, Le., memorandum o f understanding (MOU)
for line ministries and contracts for NGOs and private firms. The request for payments should be
authorized by the line ministry's designated representative to enable NACP and G C M U to commence
processing the payments. Release o f first tranche payments, where necessary will be based on the
terms o f the performance agreement. Subsequent release o f funds will be dependent on the
achievement o f performance milestones stated in the agreement, submission o f SOEs to
G C M U M O P H by sub-grant recipients and relevant supporting documents (if required), and
submission of financial and physical progress reports to G C M U M O P H as o f that date. Where it i s
observed by NACP and G C M U that a recipient has utilized the funds to finance activities other than
those stated inthe approved work plans, these would be considered as ineligible expenditures and the
amounts would need to be refundedto the project.

Cash advances may be taken from the Designated Account, and held and managed by MOPH. This
agency's controls, holding, accounting, and preparation o f SOEs have been satisfactorily assessed.
New cash advances will only be made when all other prior cash advances have beenjustified through
submission o f SOEs to the SDU.

Retroactive financing o f up to SDR 657,000 (US$l.O million equivalent) is envisaged for
expenditures between March 1, 2007 and when the grant i s signed. Retroactive financing can be
disbursed only after the grant becomes effective.




                                                   37

FUNDSFLOW CHART



                                                                           F                   Y


                                                                             Direct Payments
                                                                             to consultants,
                                                                                Innovation
                                                                             Initiative /sub-
                                                                             grants recipients
                                                                             (NGOs/CBOs),
                                                                              suppliers, etc.
                                                                             after approval o f
                                          Designated Account in              W.A initiatedby
                                       DAB denominated inUSD         "       the project and
                                                                           .submitted through
                                                                                   SI31J
                                                                                               I




                            Project transactions processed through SDU
                   and paid to suppliers and Sub-grant recipients (NGOdCBOs)




Legalrequirementsfor authorizedsignature
Ministry of Finance has authorization to disburse funds from the Grant. Specimen signatures of
authorized signatories inMOF are on file.
Accounting
The SDUwill maintaina proper accounting systemof all expendituresincurred along with supporting
documents to enable IDA to verify these expenditures. The FM staff of GCMU in MOPH will: (a)
supervise preparation of supporting documents for expenditures; (b) prepare payment orders (Form
M16); (c) obtain approval for M-16s by the Minister or Deputy Minister depending on the payment
amount; and (d) submit them to the Treasury Department in MOF for verification and payment.
Whilst original copies of requiredsupporting documents are attached to the Form M16, the project is
required to make and keep photocopies of these documents for records retention purposes. The FM
Advisor in the MOF/SDU will use the government's computerized accounting system, AFMIS, for
reporting, generating relevant financial statements, and exercising controls.




                                                  38

G C M U FM staff will maintain essential project transaction records using Excel spreadsheets and
generate requiredmonthly, quarterly, and annual reports. At each o fthe line ministries involved inthe
program, the assigned accounting officer will maintain essential project records and prepare basic
financial reports (Receipts and Payments Account) on their activities. GCMU FM staff will prepare
summary reports (statements o f expenditures), reconcile the designated account and ensure accuracy
o f DaB statements and monitor procedural compliance for Sub-grants disbursed under the Innovation
Initiative.

The FM Manual, to be prepared by MOPH and approved by the Bank, will include: (a) roles and
responsibilities for all FM staff; (b) documentation and approval procedures for payments and release
o f funds to each o f the Innovation Initiative recipients; (c) project reporting requirements; and (d)
quality assurance measures to help ensure that adequate internal controls and procedures are in place
and are being followed.

Internal Control& InternalAuditing

Project-specific internal control procedures for requests and approval o f funds will be described in
the FM Manual to be developed before disbursements begin including segregation of duties,
documentation reviews, physical asset control, and cash handling and management. Adequate
procedures, guidelines, and controls on payments to line ministries involved in the program will also
be included in the FMManual.

The Head o f the FM unit o f G C M U will be responsible for coordinating FM activities of the project
with the SDU.

Annual project financial statements will be prepared by S D U M O F detailing activities pertaining to
the project as separate line items with adequate details to reflect the details o f expenditures within
each component.

The project financial management systems will be subject to review by the newly-established internal
audit directorate o f the MOF, according to programs to be determined by the Director o f Internal
Audit usinga risk-based approach.

ExternalAudit

The project accounts will be audited by the Auditor General, with the support o f the Audit Advisor,
with terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association. The audit o f the project accounts will include
an assessment o f the: (a) adequacy o f the accounting and internal control systems; (b) ability to
maintain adequate documentation for transactions; and (c) eligibility o f incurred expenditures for
Association financing. The audited annual project financial statements will be submitted within six
months o f the close o f fiscal year. All agencies involved in implementation and maintaining records
o f expenditures would need to retain these as per the IDA records retention policy.

The following audit reports will be monitored each year in the Audit Reports Compliance System
(ARCS):




                                                    39

I   ResponsibleAgency        I              Audit              I     Auditors      I      Date      I
 MoF, supportedby Special     SOE, Project Accounts and          Auditor General    Sep 22
 DisbursementUnit             DesignatedAccount


 FinancialReporting

 FinancialStatementsandProjectReportswill beusedfor projectmonitoringandsupervision. Based
 uponthe FMarrangementsofthis project,FinancialStatementsandProjectReportswill beprepared
 quarterly and annuallyby the GCMUinthe MOPH.Thesereports will beproducedbasedonrecords
 kept on Excelspreadsheets after due reconciliationto expenditure statementsfrom SDU(as recorded
 inAFMIS) andbank statementsfrom DaB.

 The quarterly ProjectReports will show: (a) sources and uses of funds by project component; and (b)
 expenditures consolidated and compared to governmental budget heads of accounts, MOPH will
 forward the relevant details to SDU/DBER with a copy to IDA within 45 days of the end of each
 quarter. The government and IDA have agreed on a pro forma report format for all Bank projects; a
 final customizedformat for HIV/AIDSwas agreedprior to projectnegotiations.

 The annual projectaccountsto be preparedby SDU from AFMIS after due reconciliationto records
 maintainedat the GCMUwill form part ofthe consolidatedAfghanistanGovernmentAccounts for all
 development projects.This is done centrally inthe Ministry of FinanceTreasury Department,
 supportedby the FinancialManagementAdvisor.

 DisbursementArrangements

 Disbursements procedures will follow the World Bank procedures described in the World Bank
 Disbursement Guidelines and the Disbursement Handbook for World Bank Clients (May 2006).
 Table 1shows the allocationof IDA proceedsin a single, simplifiedexpenditurecategory.The single
 category for "goods, works, consultancy services, training, Sub-Grants (under the Innovation
 Initiative) and operating costs" is defined in the financing agreement to facilitate preparation of
 withdrawal applications and record-keeping. Project funds will be disbursed over 36 months. The
 closingdate ofthe projectwill be December31,20 10with a final disbursementdeadline four months
 after the closingdate.

 Duringthis additional4-monthgraceperiod, project-relatedexpenditures incurredprior to the closing
 dateare eligible for disbursement.




                                                  40

                  Table 1: IDA Financingby Category of Expenditure (SDR million)

                          ExpenditureCategory                                  Amount of the Grant            Financing
                                                                                 Allocation (SDR)             Percentage
  (1) Goods, consultants' services, training, sub grantsand                         6,502,000                   100 %
  IncrementalOperatingCosts'

  (2) PPFRefmancing                                                                    98,000
  Total                                                                             6,600,000

SummaryReportslRecords.Summary reports inthe form of Statements ofExpenditurewill be used
for expenditures on contracts below US$25,000; for all training programs, operating costs and all
Sub-grants (to NGOs/CBOs) financed from the Innovation Initiative regardless of whether Bank
procurementprior review is required or not. Records (supporting source documentation) are required
only for contracts for goods, works and servicesexceedingUS$25,000 including procurementcarried
out by other Line Ministries relatedto the Innovation Initiative.

Designated Account. A single DesignatedAccount with a ceiling of US$500,000 will be opened at
DaB representingthree months of estimated expenditures. The SDU in MOF will managepayments
from and new advances/reimbursementsto this account. Cash advances may be taken from the
Designated Account, and held and managed by MOPH in accordance with MOFMOPH procedures.
This agency's controls, holding, accounting, and preparation of SOEs have been satisfactorily
assessed. New cash advances will only be made when all other prior cash advances have been
justified through submissionof SOEs to the SDUMOF. The DesignatedAccount will be reconciled
and a reimbursementapplicationpreparedon a monthly basis.

Direct Payments. Third-party payments (direct) and Special Commitments will be permitted for
amounts exceeding 20 percent of the advance in the DA (US$lOO,OOO). All such payments require
supporting documentation in the form of records (copies of invoices, bills, purchase orders, etc.). In
the event a direct payment of a Sub-grant to an NGO/CBO is made under the Innovation Initiative,
then copies of the relevant Sub-grant agreement are required. For any tranche or installment
payments, other appropriate records (progress reports, as required under terms of the Sub-grant
agreement) would be required.

Preparation of Withdrawal Applications. MOPH will prepare Summary Reports (simplified
Statements of expenditures based on those in "A Guidance Note on Disbursement Procedures -
World Bank HIV/AIDS Program") and forward those reports to the SDU for further processing as a
reimbursementapplication. The SDUwill review withdrawal applications for quality and conformity
to Treasury procedures, and then obtain signature. Selected MOPH and SDU finance staff will be
registeredas users of the World Bank Web-based Client Connection system, and take an active hand
inmanagingthe flow of disbursements.




'Incremental  Operating Costs refers to project-related incremental expenses incurred on account of project implementation
support and management including the rental of office space; the operation, maintenance, rental and insuranceof vehicles;
fuel; communications supplies and charges; advertisements; books andperiodicals; office administrationand maintenance
costs; bank transaction charges; utility charges; domestictravel and per diem but excluding salaries of officials and staff of
the Recipient'scivil service.



                                                             41

FinancialManagementCovenants

       (a) MOF shall submit audited financial statements for the project within six months of the
             end of each fiscal year. The Project's auditreportwill cover the financial statements,the
             DA, and SOEs, inaccordancewith terms of reference agreedwith the Association.

        (b) Un-auditedproject interimfinancial reports will be submittedby MOPHon a quarterly
             basis to the World Bank and a copy to SDU-MOFwithin 45 days after the end of each
             quarter.

        (c)  MOPH will ensure that the new Financial Management Specialist to be employed is
             retained throughout the duration of the project in order to ensure smooth project
             implementation.

SupervisionPlan

During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management
arrangements.The team will:
             Review the project's quarterly un-audited interim financial reports as well as the
             project's annual auditedfinancialstatementsand auditor's managementletter.

             Reviewthe project's financial managementand disbursement arrangements(includinga
             review of a sample of SOEs and movements on the DA and bank reconciliations) to
             ensure compliance with the Bank'sminimumrequirements.

             Review agency performance in managing project funds to ensure that it is timely,
             accurate, and accountable. Particular supervision emphasis will be placed on asset
             managementand supplies.

             Reviewof financial managementrisk ratingandcompliance with all covenants.

Conclusion

The FM arrangements, including the systems, processes, procedures, and staffing are adequate to
support this project- subject to implementationofthe items listedinthe actionplan.




                                                  42

             Appendix 5: Coreservicesof the NationalHIV/AIDS PreventionProgram

      Intervention               Core services             Sample Monitoring         Multisector partners
                                                               Indicators            (actual and potential)
1. Reproductive Tract     *Syndromic management of % STI cases who are            Integratedinto Essential
Infections/ STI case      STI                         correctly assessed& treated Health ServicesPHC
management                                                                        NGOPrivate sector
2. HIV preventive         *Promotion ofknowledge & % of generalpopulation         Integration into essential
services ingeneral        consistentcondomuse         with knowledge about HIV    health services/ PHC
population, including     *Voluntary Counselingand    transmission andprevention  Ministry of Education,
vulnerablegroups at high  Testing, PMTCT, RTI,        %consistent condom use      Strategic communications/
risk                      *Community based                                        BCC, Transport sector,
                          responses                                               Prisonhealth services
3. Refugees, Returnees    *Referral for VCCT and      YORefugees& Returnees       Ministry of Refugees and
and Migrant workers       STI,                        with appropriate knowledge  Returnees.Transport sector
support centre            *BCC peer education         regarding HIV
4. Blood safety program   *Voluntary non-             % HIV prevalenceinblood     RedCross/RedCrescent
                          remuneratedblood donation   transfusions                Integratedinto Essential
                          *Rational use of blood      % oftranshsed bloodunits    Health Services / PHC
                          *HIV testing of Bloodunits  screened for HIV
                          /QA Bloodbanks
5. Youth Friendly         *Life skills (sexuality,    YOHIV prevalenceamong       Education sector, Social
Services & programs       substance abuse)            adolescents                 Development
                          *Health education& social   %youth knowing about        Ministry of Religious Afairs,
                          services                    HIV Prevention              Ministry of Education
6. HIV preventive         *Voluntary Counselingand    % sex workersfclients       FSW and MSW programs
services involving sex    Testing                     reporting use of condom     NGO/CBO Peer education
workers andtheir clients  *Community basedresponse with their most recent         Prison services
& othervulnerable         *Promotion ofknowledge & clienthex worker
groups at highrisk (Le,,  consistentcondomuse
truckers & other migrant                              % prison inmateswith
labor, refugeesand                                    access to HIV preventive
returnees, prison                                     services
populatiois)
7. ComprehensiveIDU       *Needle syringe program     %HIV prevalenceamong        Community based services
program                   *Oral substitution (inpilot InjectingDrugUsers          NGO/CBO Peer education
                          programs)                   YOIDUswho usedsterile       BCC Communications
                          *Referral (01, DOTS, STI,   equipment intheir last      sensitizationofpolice &
                          VCCT, ART, drug de-          injection                  legal system
                          addiction )                                             prison health services
                          Social serviceseeer                                     Ministry of Counter
                          education& Counseling on                                Narcotics
                          HIV prevention, condom
                          promotion
8. Workplace program,     *Workplace policy &         % of employees, including   Transport sectorltrucking
including migrant labor,  protocols implemented       truckers, with access to    companies, private sector,
long distance bus and     (HIV/AIDS code, referral    HIV/AIDS information &      labor unions, business
truck drivers             VCCT, IEC, non               services                   corporations-with large
                          discrimination                                          migrant populations
9. Treatment and care for AIDS case management        % PLWHA seeking care        Integratedinto public health
PLWHA                     appropriate care, non       who are correctly managed   services
                          discrimination, community   (including ART)
                          support




                                                    43

                          Appendix 6: ProjectPreparation and Supervision
 ProcessingSchedule:

                                                      Planned                      Actual
 PCNreview                                           9/29/2006                    1013112006
 Initial PIDto PIC                                   10105/2006                   11/02/2006
 InitialISDS to PIC                                  1011012006                   1111112006
 Appraisal                                           0411512007                   0411512007
 Negotiations                                        0513112007                   0513112007
 BoardRVP approval                                   0713112007
 Planneddate of effectiveness                        0813112007
 Planneddate of mid-termreview                       0313112009
 Plannedclosing date                                 1213112010

 Key institutionsresponsible for preparationof the project:
 National AIDS Control Program, Ministry o f Public Health

 Other relevant departments inthe Ministry o f Public Health (M&E Department, IEC Department,
 Environmental Health Department, DrugDemand ReductionDepartment, ReproductiveHealth
 Department).

 Ministry of Finance

 Other relevant line ministries (Counter-Narcotics, Education, Higher Education, Women's Affairs,
 Labor and Social Affairs, Haj and Religious Affairs).

 Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

~




 Name                                                  Title                             Unit
 Mariam Claeson               Regional HIV/AIDS Coordinator & Task-Team Leader          SASHD
 Sundararajan S. Gopalan      Senior HNP Specialist                                     SASHD
 Deepal Fernando              Senior Procurement Specialist                             SARPS
 Kenneth 0.Okpara             Senior FM Specialist                                      SARFM
 Asha Narayan                 Financial Management Analyst                              SARFM
 David Freese                 Senior Finance Officer                                   KE3LwB
 Laura Kiang                  Operations Officer                                        SASHD
 Sheila Braka Musiime         Counsel                                                   LEGMS
 Martin M. Serrano            Counsel                                                   LEGMS
 Jed Friedman                 Economist                                                 DECRG
 Ghulam Dastagir Sayed        Public Health Specialist                                  SASHD
 Rahimullah Wardak            Procurement Analyst                                       SARPS
 Mohammad Arif Rasuli         Environmental Specialist                                  SASES
 Alex Wodak                   Consultant                                                SASHD
 Nagaraju Duthaluri           Consultant                                                SARPS
 Nilufar Egamberdi            Consultant                                               HDNGA
 Silvia M.Albert              Program Assistant                                         SASHD
 Hasib Karimzada              Team Assistant                                            SASHD




                                                   44

Bankfunds expended to date on projectpreparation:
    1. Bank resources:  US$120,000
   2. Trust funds:      Nil
   3. Total:            us$120,000
EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
    1. Remaining costs to approval:      US$80,000
   2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:  us$100,000




                                          45


                        Afghanistan HIV/AIDS PreventionProject
                  Addendum to TA: EnvironmentalManagement Plan


Environment

Provisiono f preventive and diagnostic services underthe HIV/AIDS project i s expected to
benefit the hygiene and sanitation situation inthe country however it could generate
infectious bio-medical wastes such as sharps (infected needles and syringes, etc), infected
blood, HIV test kits usedinVCT centers, blood banks and laboratories and pharmaceutical
wastes. These wastes, ifnot managed and disposed properly, can have direct environmental
and public health implications.

The proposed project has been classified as category "B" as per the World Bank's
Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) for environmental screening
purposes given the risks associated with the handling and disposal o f medical waste and
general health waste. Category B projects imply that the potential adverse environmental
impacts o f the program are site-specific and inmost cases mitigatory measures can be
designed readily and appropriately.

The MoPH and the NACP team are feeling that under this project we are focusing on the
Infection Control and Waste Management issues only inthe activities pertaining to this
current HIV/AIDS project but it could be a good start and foundation stone for a more
comprehensive Waste Management Framework with other programs and institutions inthe
country inthe future.

An Infection Control and Waste Management (IC-WM) Planhas been developed by NACP
which focuses on the establishment o f a sound management system for the treatment and
disposal o f the waste related to the testing, treatment and prevention o f HIVIAIDS STI and
includes generic guidance and protocols and alternative technologies for treatment,
transportation and disposal inaccordance with the size o f healthcare facilities.

Safeguard Policies

This project has triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment due to the potential adverse
environmental impacts o f healthcare waste as discussed inthe previous section. A Limited
environmental assessment was undertaken, by different stakeholders, by visiting some
government runand some NGOs runfacilities, which included field visits and
consultations. NACP does not have the necessary institutional capacity to implementthe
IC-WM Plan and would needto obtain appropriate support for components such as
training, IEC and monitoring. An external independentevaluation i s recommended before
the mid term review ofthe program to ensure all activities are on track.

The final version, ofthe Infection Control and Waste Management Plan should be
disclosed inthe World Bank InfoShop prior to Appraisal and also it i s the responsibility o f
the NACP and the MoPH to make it available to all relevant national stakeholders inthe
local languages as well as inthe relevant websites.




                                                 1

SafeguardPolicies Triggered by the Project                           Yes               N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                 [XI               [ I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                         [ I              [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             [ I              [XI
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                              [ I              [XI
Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                  [ I              [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4. IO)                                      [I               [XI
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                  [I               [XI
Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                          [ I              [XI
Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP 7.60)                                 [ I              [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                      [ I              [XI


 Activities and Responsibilitiesof NACP

 NACP i s the platform where the following Activities must take place:

          Development, revision and implementation o f AfghanistanNational HIV/AIDS
          Strategic Framework;

          Establishmentandrunning VCCT centers indifferentparts o fthe country;

          Development and adaptation o f differenttypes o f guidelines and protocols;

          Establishmentand co-ordination o fHIV/AIDS Co-ordinationCommittee of
          Afghanistan(HACCA) ;

          Supervising different surveys and studies regarding HIV/AIDS; and

          Fundraising for smoothrunningofProgram.

 Provision o f preventative and treatment services under the NACP i s expected to generate
 infectious bio-medical wastes such as sharps (infected needles and syringes, equipment,IV
 sets) infected blood, HIV test kits used in VCT centers, blood banks and laboratories and
 pharmaceutical wastes. These wastes, if not managed and disposed properly, can have
 direct environmental and public health implications. Healthcare workers (HCWs) are at
 great risk as most bloodborne occupational infections occur through injuries from sharps
 contaminated with blood through accidents or unsafe practices. Systematic management o f
 such clinical waste from source to disposal i s therefore integral to prevention o f infection
 and control o fthe epidemic.

 In this context, governments have an obligation to implement the provisions of the 2001
 UnitedNations Declaration o f Commitment on HIVIAIDS, which include a commitment to
 strengthen health-care systems and expand treatment, as well as to respond to HIVIAIDS in
 the world of work by increasing prevention and care programs in public, private and
 informal work-places.




                                              2

HIV/AIDS ControlProgram in Afghanistan

The first HIV positive case was identifiedincentral blood bank in 1989. As the country
was inconflict inthat time the Government o f Afghanistan responded to it by launching
awarenessprograms. In2003 the Government o f Afghanistan formed National AIDS
Control Program (NACP) inMoPH. The first National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan was
developed which was revised in2006. Now the six functional VCCT centers are
functioning throughout the country.

Afghanistan National Development Strategy has a statement regarding HIV/AIDS which
indicate a high political commitment on government side.

Environment and Public Health Impactsof the Program

Provision o f preventative and treatment services under the HIV AIDS project i s expected to
generate infectious bio-medical wastes such as sharps (infected needles and syringes,
surgical equipment, IV sets) infected blood, HIV test kits usedin VCT centers, blood banks
and laboratories and pharmaceutical wastes. These wastes, if not managed and disposed
properly, can have direct environmental and public health implications. Healthcare workers
(HCW) are at great risk as most blood-borne occupational infections occur through injuries
from sharps contaminated with blood through accidents or unsafe practices. Systematic
management o f such clinical waste from source to disposal i s therefore integral to
prevention o f infection and control o f the epidemic.

In this context, governments have an obligation to implement the provisions of the 2001
United Nations Declaration o f Commitment on HIV/AIDS, which include a commitment to
strengthen health-care systems and expand treatment, as well as to respond to HIV/AIDS in
the world of work by increasing prevention and care programs in public, private and
informal work-places.

The NACP projects specially world bank supported project for the first time, has been
classified as Category "B" as per the World Bank's Operational Policy on Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.0 1). Category B projects imply that the potential adverse environmental
impacts o f the program are site-specific and in most cases mitigatory measures can be
designed readily and appropriately. NACP i s developing an Infection Control and Waste
Management Plan which defines a structured a systematic approach to institute best
practices in managing health and environmental risks effectively.

Also the ministry has developed guidelines on Auto-Disable Syringes Use and Disposal.
Auto-Disable (AD) syringes have beenintroduced inthe country as part o f the Universal
ImmunizationProgram. Accordingly, the MoPHhas laid down the National Guidelineson
use and disposal o f AD syringes.

Inthe following are some rules for Bio-medical Waste Management to be followed during
the project Implementation.




                                               3

                            Table 1: Bio-medical Waste Manag nent Rules

Category                       Waste Category                       Treatment and disposal

1            Human Anatomical Waste (human tissues,                 Incineratiorddeep burial
             organs, body parts).
2            Animal Waste (animal tissues, organs, body parts       Incineratioddeep burial
             carcasses, bleeding parts, fluid, blood and
             experimental animals used in research, waste
             generated by veterinary hospitals colleges,
             discharge from hospitals, animal houses).
3            Microbiology & Biotechnology Waste (wastes             Local autoclavingimicrowaving
             from laboratory cultures, stocks or specimens o f /incineration
             micro-organisms live or attenuated vaccines,
             human and animal cell culture used in research
             and     infectious   agents   from     research   and
             industrial laboratories, wastes from production o f
             biological, toxins, dishes and devices used for
             transfer o f cultures).
4            Waste sharps (needles, syringes, scalpels, blades,     Disinfection (chemical
             glass, etc. that may cause puncture and cuts. This     treatment/autoclaving/microwaving
             includes both used and unused sharps).                 and mutilation/shredding)
             Discarded Medicines and Cytotoxic drugs                Incineration, destruction and drugs
             (wastes comprising o f outdated, contaminated          disposal in secured landfills
             and discarded medicines).
             Solid Waste (Items contaminated with blood, and        Incineration/autoclaving
             body fluids including cotton, dressings, soiled        /microwaving
             plaster casts, lines, beddings, other material
             contaminated with blood)
7            Solid Waste (wastes generated from disposable          Disinfection by chemical treatment
             items other than the waste sharps such as tubing,      /autoclaving /microwaving and
             catheters, intravenous sets etc).                      mutilation shredding
             Liquid Waste (waste generated from laboratory          Disinfection by chemical treatment
             and washing, cleaning, house-keeping and               and discharge into drains
             disinfecting activities).
             IncinerationAsh (ash from incineration o f any         Disposal in municipal landfill
             bio-medical waste).
10           Chemical Waste (chemicals used in production           Chemical treatment and discharge
             o f biological, chemicals used in disinfection, as     into drains for liquids and secured
             insecticides, etc.).                                   landfill for solids
Notes:
(1)   Chemicalstreatment using at least 1% hypochlorite solution or any other equivalent chemicalreagent.
      It must be ensured that chemicaltreatmentensures disinfection.
(2)   Mutilationishredding must be such so as to preventunauthorizedreuse.
(3)   There will be no chemicalpretreatmentbefore incineration. Chlorinated plastics shall not be
      incinerated.
(4)   Deep burial shall be an option available only intowns with population less than five lakhs and in rural
      areas.




                                                      4

Institutionaland AdministrativeFramework

National AIDS Control Program was established in 2003 as a unit in MoPH to lead the
country response to the epidemic o f HIV/AIDS. NACP has the responsibility o f steering,
supporting, coordinating and overseeing the activities carried out for HIV/AIDS control
program. HIV/AIDS Co-ordination Committee o f Afghanistan (HACCA) i s the entity
which oversees NACP.

NGOs form an important element o f targeted intervention. NGOs undertake HIV
prevention activities through the public health system as well as through targeted
interventions. Thus while the bulk o f VCTCs, STD clinics are inthe public sector, targeted
interventions are implementedthrough NGOs who work with the high risk groups. For the
most, these NGOs also make testing services available through the same public networks.

BASELINE DATA AND CURRENT PRACTICES OF IC-WM

Sites and FacilitiesVisited and StakeholdersConsulted




The facilities visited includedprimary, secondary and tertiary health-care facilities
(government-run), VCCTCs, Blood banks, and STD Clinics (including associated
laboratories). The stakeholders consulted during site visits included:

       (a)    HACCA;

       (b) NGOs;

       (c)    Health-care workers at blood banks, VCCTs, blood banks, and STD clinic;

       (d) .Primary/secondary/tertiary health-care facilities;

       (e)   ,Local communities, including patients, peer educators, commercial sex
              workers; and

       ( f )  Waste management facilitators (private organizations).

PrevailingIC-WM Practices

Survey Findings

The findings from the site visits and primary data collection have beengrouped intwo
categories:

       (a) Government-runFacilities ("Government Facilities") that include primary,
            secondary and tertiary healthcare facilities; and




                                              5

         (b) NGO-runFacilities ("NGO Facilities") that include VCTC and STD clinics.
Government-runFacilities

Overview

Most o f the government-run facilities surveyed had poor standards o f hygiene and
inadequate IC-WMpractices. Although awareness o f the Bio-medical Rules and Hospital
Waste Management Guidelines i s high (over 90% o f the facilities visited), lack o f funds,
irregular supply o f barrier protection and PEP(Post Exposure Prophylaxis) and human
resource shortage were cited as the main reasons for poor implementation o f IC-WM
practices. Though more than 90% o f the facilities visited were aware o f the Applicable
statute and guidelines, specific compliance requirements were not known to the majority o f
the HCWsinterviewed.

Inmost ofthe facilities surveyed, hospital infectioncontrol committees had not been
constituted. Even inthose facilities inwhich IC-WM committees were present, the
authorities admittedthat these were not very active.

Few or none IEC material were observed inmost of the facilities visited. Additionally,
there i s no evaluationprocess to assess the quality of training imparted and its outcome in
terms o f improved IC-WMpractices.

Employment of InfectionControlMeasures

The general assessment was that a large number o f nurses, paramedics were found to be
ignorant o f good practices. Since these H C W also will work with HIV/AIDS patients, the
lack o f availability o f barrier protection, disposable needles and PPE becomes a critical
issue. In several instances the staff admitted to not using gloves during blood handling
procedures. They also admitted to using the same disposable syringe for several patients
and thus needle recapping was a common practice. AD syringes could not be observed at
any of the facilities visited. On the contrary glass syringes were being used at several
places for which the general practice i s reuse after sterilization.

Needle Cutters were rarely available and were mostly electric ones which are prone to
beingunderutilized during power cuts or being damaged due to voltage fluctuations. It was
observed that HCW either did not utilize the needle-cutters or instead broke the needles
with their bare hands, or by using a heavy object, or even not at all. In majority o f the
instances the intact syringes or mutilated needles were not immersed in 1% hypochlorite
solution as required.

H C W in several o f the secondary and tertiary facilities did report accidents due to needle
stick injuries. However, the incidence o f reporting was low, with only 30-40 percent o f the
total injuries being reported.




                                                6

In PHCs, no waste segregation and disinfection practices could be observed. The general
standards o f sanitation and hygiene were found to be very low. Infectious waste (blood-
soaked cotton, used un-mutilated syringes, worn gloves) was seen scattered under the
patients' beds, in the corridors and washrooms. All infectious and non- infectious waste
was observed to be collectively disposed in shallow open pits.

Insecondary and tertiary facilities partial waste categorization and segregation practices
were observed though awareness o f statutory (Regulatory) requirements was largely absent.
Even if known, non-availability o f appropriately colored poly-bags and bins, leads to
improper segregation with waste being generally handledwithout any barrier protection.

NGO-run Facilities

Overview

In general, all NGO run-facilities demonstrated awareness of and adherence to good IC-
WM practices, partial or complete. These facilities typically had regular training, sufficient
funds, regular supply o f barrier protection and PEP and human resources. Awareness o f
NACP publications was also high as these form the basis o f training and functioning o f
these facilities. Since the funding o f NGO facilities i s separate from that o f Government
facilities, hence selective training and equipmentavailability could be observed.

Employment of InfectionControlMeasures

Due to systematic training and re-training, the awareness is significantly higher in these
HCW. NGO have been providing barrier protection, PEP, disposable needles and needle
cutters (electrical type) on a regular basis. Accident Reporting i s also observed to a large
extent and most workers had been vaccinated against HBV.

Employment of Waste Management Measures

The fact that the waste disposal for NGO facilities i s dependent on the host facility's
disposal practices further compounds the problem o f waste management. In instances
where waste management i s being carried out by third parties (such as at Common
Treatment Facilities) there is a higher degree o f conformance to Biomedical Rules.

RECORD OF CONSULTATIONLDISCUSSION WITH RELEVANT
STAKEHOLDERS

Two types o f consultations were held during the course o f this study:

         (a) Consultation with individual stakeholders during the site visits; and

         (b) Consultation convened by the NACP design team and facilitated by
             environmental department o f MoPH.




                                              7

The IC-WM Plan proposed below is based on existing documentation, observations during
site visits, review o f existing practices amongst other health initiatives and discussions and
consultations with stakeholders.

INFECTION CONTROL AND WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN

The IC-WM Plan("Plan") provides a consolidated, reference material on IC-WM good
practices that may be further tailored to suit the facility's needs. The Plan i s build on the
following framework:

        (a) Section I : Infection Control and Waste Management;
             ,


        (b) Section 11: Capacity Building;

        (c) Section 111: Institutional Framework;

        (d) Section IV:Monitoring and Evaluation; and

        (e) Section V: Implementation Schedule.

Section I: InfectionControland Waste Management

Healthcare workers involved in the NACP face the highest occupational risk due to the
nature o f their work dealing with testing and treatment o f HIV/AIDS cases. Infectious
waste from AIDS related activities include primarily: needles and sharps, blood and blood
bags, used test kits, culture samples and slides and other related infectious waste such as
swabs, gloves, bandages, sputumcups etc. Thus it i s imperative that good IC-WM practices
are implemented. This activity should not be restricted only to certain sections of the
healthcare facility likeVCTC, PPTCT, but extend to all facilities runnedby NACP.

1.      Waste Segregation and On-siteStorage

Segregation at source i s the most critical step towards a well- functioning waste
management system. Separation o f infectious and non- infectious waste becomes
impossible once mixed, resulting in greater risk to all concerned.

The Bio-medical Rulesprovides color coding for waste segregation and their respective
treatment options, as listed below inTable 2.




                                                8

 Color coding                         Waste Category                             Treatment option
Yellow           Plastic bag Cat. 1, Cat. 2, and Cat. 3, Cat. 6.          Incineratioddeep burial

Red              Disinfected container/plastic bag Cat. 3, Cat. 6, Cat.7  Autoclavinghlicrowaving /
                                                                          Chemical Treatment

Blue / White     Plastic bagipuncture proof Cat. 4, Cat. 7.               Autoclavinghlicrowaving /
Translucent      Container                                                Chemical Treatment and
                                                                          Destructionishredding

Black            Plastic bag Cat. 5 and Cat. 9 and Cat. 10.               Disposal in secured landfill
                 (solid)



The facility should ensure that there are designated segregation points, as close to the
generation points as possible. Segregation requires appropriate consumables, such as good
quality and adequately sized containers, non-chlorinatedplastic bags, needle cutters and
safety boxes. The specifications and color-coding provided inthe Biomedical Rules need to
be strictly followed.

2.      Collectionand Transportationof Bio-medicalWastes

Transportation o f bio- medical wastes, within and outside the healthcare facility needs to be
secure and well-managed. Spills and leakages can be risky for patients and the community,
but can also result inpilferage and reuse o f potentially infectious items such as syringes
etc.

Specific steps to be taken by each facility include:

        (a) Waste should be collected from various sources and transported to a central
             location;

        (b) Within the facility, special waste routes should be designated to avoid patient
             care areas. Special timing should be identified for transportation o f bio-medical
             waste to the central point;

        (c) Dedicatedwheeled containers, trolleys or carts should be usedto transport the
             waste to the collectiodtreatment site. These should be such that the waste can
             be easily loaded and emptied and remain secured during transportation. They
             should not have any sharp edges and be easy to clean and disinfect;

        (d) Ifdisposal is done within the premises o fthe healthcare facility, care should be
             taken that different categories o f waste are disposed of accurately (sharps in
             sharps pit, anatomical waste in deep burial pits etc) as designated inthe
             Biomedical Rules; and




                                                      9

        (e) Waste handlers should be properly trained and should use barrier protection
             duringtransportation.

3.      Treatment and Disposalof Bio-medicalWastes

        (a) Used sharps (needles, slides, scalpels etc), blood bags, syringes and other
             infectious plastic and liquid wastes (Categories 4, 7, 8, and 10 of the
            Biomedical Rules) need to be disinfected by immersion in 1% hypochlorite
             solution or any other equivalent chemical reagent. It must be ensured that
             chemical treatment ensures disinfection;

        (b) Waste containers should contain freshly prepared disinfectant solution and be
             kept closed all the time. At all times, the waste container should not be more
            than 3/4th full;

        (c) The waste containers should be emptiedat least once everyday;

        (d) Infected linen in the hospital should be carefully packed in plastic bags, and
             disinfected before being sent for washing. Personnel involved in laundering
             infected linen should take adequate precautions to prevent the exposure to
             infections;

        (e) A log o f quantity o f waste generated by type, name o f waste handler, time o f
             emptying waste container, time o f cleaning container and pouring disinfectant
             should be maintained; and

        (0 Disposalas recommended inthe Rules,should be as follows:

              (i)   Sharps intheir puncture proof containers should be drained of the
                    disinfectant and disposed inthe sharps pit, constructed within the
                    premises;

              (ii)Infectedorganicwaste       should be disposed o f inthe deep burial pits
                    also constructed withinthe facility and covered with a layer o f lime and
                    soil; and

              (iii)Infectedrecyclablessuchasplasticsandmetals,canbesentfor
                   .
                    recycling but only after disinfection and/or autoclaving.

All equipment used for bio-medical waste treatment should be periodically subjected to
maintenance checks to ensure its functioning. Both preventive and corrective maintenance
schedules and records should be retained in the facility. As a general practice o f
maintaining good hygiene, the floors o f the facility should be first swabbed with a wet
cloth, then swept to remove grits to avoid dust carrying pathogens from rising into the air
and, finally, swabbed with a disinfectant solution. The swab cloth should be washed with
detergent after every use. The housekeeping personnel should employ use o f protective
barriers to prevent exposure to infection.




                                               10

4.      Sharps Management

Given the high risk of infection from infected sharps, a separate section on the safe use and
disposal o f sharps i s being detailed. Sharps are anything that may cause puncture and cuts.
Sharps include needles, scalpels, blades, broken glass, slides, lancets, sutures, and IV
catheters. Infectedneedles, sharps and blood, if improperlyhandled, can be a source of
infection for the HCWs.

Although the risk o f infection from contaminated sharps i s high for all categories o f HCW,
those most at risk o f exposures are nurses, medical staff and clinical laboratory staff (blood
collectors). Physicians are at some risk, but surgical and dental staff, although at high risk
o f injury, have a lower risk o f infection. It must be remembered that all health care
personnel (including cleaners, laundry staff and waste contractors) may be exposed to
inappropriately discarded sharps. While emergency rooms and operating theatres pose high
risk for HCW, it has been found that a) the majority o f exposures have occurred in general
ward areas and b) a larger number o f exposures which would be classified as high risk have
occurred in medical wards.

The following measures must be taken to ensure sharps safety inthe work-place:

              Barrier protection must always be usedwhen handling sharps;

              Sharps must be segregated and stored inpuncture-proofcontainers at the point
              o f generation;

              Sharps must be mutilated before treatment and disposal. Useddisposable or
              Autodisable (AD) syringes should be mutilated by usingneedle cutters/
              destroyers and hub-pullersand dropped into a puncture-proof container.
              Clipping, bending or breaking o f needles by hand or re-capping should be
              avoided as this may cause accidental injuries;

             ,Usedsharps should not be left untreated or carelessly on counter tops, food
              trays, or beds, as this can pose a risk to all concerned;

              Mutilated sharps should be immersedin 1 percent hypochlorite solution or any
              other equivalent chemical reagent for disinfection. Treatment by autoclaving /
              microwaving is also approved; and

              Final disposal should be ina secured landfill. Wherever this i s not available
              everywhere,sharps pits or encapsulation should be used.

A sharps pit is a circular or rectangular pit, where sharp wastes are disposed. These pits are
lined with brick, masonry or concrete rings. The pit shouldbe covered with a concrete
slab. When the pit is full, it should be sealed completely and another pit i s prepared.

Encapsulation i s another method. When a container (puncture and leak proof containers) is
three-quarter full, material such as cement mortar, bituminous sand, plastic foam or clay i s



                                                11

poured untilthe container i s completely filled. After the mediumhas dried, the containers
are sealed and disposed inlandfill sites.



No.        Steps/ Stages

1          Severe needles from disposable syringe immediately after administering injection
           usinga needle cuttedhub-cutter that removes the needle from disposable syringesor
           cuts plastic hub o f syringe from AD syringes.

2          The cut needles get collected inthe puncture proofcontainer of the needlecutteri hub-
           cutter. The container should contain an appropriate disinfectant and the cut needles
           should be completely immersed inthe disinfectant

3          Segregate and store syringes and unbroken (but discarded) vials in a red bag or
           container.

4          Send the collected materials to the common bio-medical waste treatment facilities. If
           such facilities do not exist, then go to the next step.

5          Treat the collected material in an autoclave. Ifthis is unavailable, treat the waste iii
           1% hypochlorite solution or boil inwater for at least 10 minutes. It shall be ensured
           that these treatments ensure disinfection.

6         Dispose the autoclaved waste as follows: (i)Dispose the needles and broken vials in a
           pit / tank, (ii)Send the syringesand unbroken vials for recycling or landfill.

7          Wash the containers properly for reuse.

8         Make a proper record o f generation, treatment and disposal o f waste.

         I


5.      Blood safety in Laboratory
Blood i s the single most important source o f HIV, HBV, HCV and other blood borne
infections for HCWs. It i s mandatory to screen blood units for five transmissible infections:
Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, HIV, syphilis and malaria. The Rules in the country also require
for testing procedures, quality control, standard qualifications, and experience for blood
bank personnel, maintenance o f complete and accurate records, strict guidelines for holding
of blood donation camps etc. and to be further improved.

Careful donor screening, discouraging use o f paid donors, stringent screening o f donated
units of blood to prevent HIV transmission through blood and blood products. Another
important action taken by MoPHhas beento modernize the blood banks inthe country.

Risk of infection varies with a number of factors, including type and number of exposures,
amount of blood involved in the exposure, amount o f virus in the patients' blood etc.
Modes o f exposure to blood borne pathogens ina laboratory have beendefinedas below:



                                                   12

                 Modesof Exposureto Blood-bornePathogens in the Laboratory

  Procedure                 HCW at risk                        SourceIModesof
                                                               Transmission

  Collection of             Laboratory technician              3Needle stick injury
  blood/body fluid                                             3Broken specimen container
                                                               3Blood contamination o f
                                                               hand with
                                                               skin lesiondbreach

  Transfer o f specimen     Laboratory technician              Contaminated exterior o f
                            and transport worker               container
                                                               CBroken specimen container
                                                               GSpillshplashes of specimen

  Processing of             Laboratory personnel               Puncture o f skin
  specimen                                                     :Contamination    o f skin from
                                                               spills,
                                                               splashes, glassware and work
                                                               surface
                                                               0Faultytechniques
                                                               OPerforated gloves

  Cleaning /Washing         Laboratory support                 c1Puncture o f skin
                            staff                              OContamination o f skin from
                                                               spills,
                                                               splashes, glassware and work
                                                               surface

  Disposal o f waste        Laboratory support                 -
                                                               LContact with infectious
                            staff                              waste,
                                                               specially sharps, broken
                                                               containers

  Specimen                  Transport/postal staff             Brokedleaking container or
  transportation/mailing                                       packaging



 As per the Bio-medical Rules, infected blood and blood samples is characterized as liquid
 waste and should be disinfected with hypochlorite solution.

. Screened positive blood bags, contaminated test kits and items are categorized as infected
 solid waste and should be disinfected by chemical treatment / autoclave and mutilated
 before disposal.




                                              13

Transport o f specimens should be done ina diligent manner. The sample should be kept
first inprimary container with enough absorbent material around it. The primary container
should then be placed in secondary container.

Staff should take care that the secondary container i s also leak-proof, properly sealed and
labeled. Uprightposition must be maintainedat all times.

6.      InfectionControl

The four key areas o f infection control for the NACP are:

        (a)   Immunizationagainst nosocomial infections;

        (b)   Availability and use o f barrier protection;

        (c)   Management o f PEP; and

        (d)   Awareness.

              (i)   Activities o f highrisk include invasive diagnostic and therapeutic
                    procedures, wound dressing, operation theatre procedures, handling o f
                    bloodherumhody fluids and tissues etc. and special attention should be
                    paid to ensuringsafety precautions during these activities;

              (ii)Barrierprotection(gowns, masks,caps,gloves,shoes)shouldbe
                    maintained to prevent contact with contaminated blood/body fluids;

              (iii)HCWworkinginhighriskareasshouldbeimmunized,attheminimum,
                   .
                    against HBV;

              (iv) .Daily cleaning o f facility premiseswith appropriate disinfection should
                    be done;

              (v)   Spills are an important source o f infection and should be cleaned up
                    immediately. The spill should be covered with absorbent material,
                    disinfectant poured around the spill and over the absorbent material. The
                    surface should be wiped again with disinfectant. H C W must utilize
                    barrier protection, especially gloves, whenmanaging spills; and

              (vi) General observance o fpersonal hygiene is important. All staff must be
                   ,
                    neat and clean always, with clean uniforms, nails, short or tied-up hair,
                    etc.

PEP i s requiredwhen there has beencontact with known HIV/AIDS infected materials
resulting from:

        (a)   Percutaneous inoculation (needle stick, cut with a sharp, etc.);

        (b)   Contamination of an open wound;


                                                14

       (c)   Contamination o f breached skin (chapped, abraded, dermatitis); and

       (d)   Contamination o f a mucous membrane including conjunctiva.

             (i)Inallsuchinstancesimmediatepost-exposuremanagementiscrucialto
                 reducing the risk o f acquiring infection. This should be done inthe manner
                 prescribed by the above mentionedguideline to be developedby NACP;
                 and

             (ii)Allaccidentswhetherneedlestickinjuriesorspillsshouldbereported.

Section 11: Capacity Building and Awareness

Training and sensitization o f various HCWs and functionaries within and outside the health
care system i s vital for the successful implementation o f any IC-WM Plan. The training
should focus on Universal Precautions, principles of waste management, identification o f
roles and responsibilities for implementation, monitoring and reporting.

All awareness, training and communication initiatives should be oriented towards
providing knowledge / information, building skills and competencies and bringing about a
fundamental, mindset change in the attitudes o f staff and personnel. The Training Plan and
budget should be included into the MoPH PIP and into NACP PIP and program budget.

The following steps should be followed for implementing training:

             Conduct baseline assessment o f training needs for HCWs involved inthe
             implementation o f AIDS Control Program. For an integrated approach;

             A Training Planneeds to be developed basedupon existing capacity and
             training needs. At the outset, this plan should distinguishbetween trainers and
             non-trainers and elaborate the criteria for identifying trainers and their
             requirementfor training;

             Training should be provided to all HCWs, including doctors, nurses, ward
             boys, paramedics, laboratory technicians, and Class IV and/or housekeeping
             staff; and

             Training should be imparted through:

             (i)Disseminationof Information,EducationandCommunication
                 (1EC)material that will sensitize HCWs and create general awareness on
                 importance o f IC-WM; and

            (ii)TechnicaltrainingforHCWswithspecificresponsibilitiesfordiscrete
                 activities related to IC-WM.

            Training inInfection Control and inWaste Management should be a
            comprehensive package as the two are closely inter-twined;



                                              15

              The Train the Trainer program will have to be undertaken at two levels - state
              and district levels. Training should be provided on an annual basis, with
              refresher courses annually or biannually;

               Inadditionto classroom typetraining, IEC material and awareness-creating
               activities also needto be employed for training the HCW. Training should
              preferably be provided on site;

               Eachfacility should keep records o f training provided to employees, by
               category o f employee; and

               The IEC material must be prepared inthe local language on both IC and W M
               and should beprominently displayed at various places. It should serve as a
               reminder for all the trained employees as well as sensitize patients visiting the
               facility.

Section 111: Reporting,Monitoringand Evaluation

Monitoring & evaluation will be done through a mix o f internal and external approaches.
The internal reporting and evaluation mechanism on the IC-WM implementation should be
integrated with overall NACP reporting. Management Information Systems (MIS)
indicators pertaining to the IC-WM will be developed during implementation. External
monitoring inthe form o f IC-WM implementation audits is also beingrecommended.

1.      Quarterly monitoring

Each facility must establish a robust system o f monitoring through regular documentation
and assessments. Ideally, each facility should designate one senior employee responsible
for documentation and another for internal evaluation. Inthe case o f VCTC, PPTCT and
blood banks, the laboratory technician should maintain records o f waste sharps, gloves, etc.
and infectious waste. The records must be maintained on a daily basis and internal
assessments should be conducted on a monthly basis. The monthly report from NGO
should directly be send to NACP.

2.      PeriodicImplementationReview

Periodic implementationreview o f the IC-WM should be undertaken, and as far as
possible, this review should be inbuilt into the regular review process o f the NACP.

This review should focus on consolidated information and reporting from individual
facility level. To facilitate regular and sustained monitoring, each NGO implementing
HIVIAIDSprogram develops annual Action Plans specifically for IC-WM, which should
be includedinto the MoPHPIPS.




                                                16

3.      PerformanceIndicators

NACP envisages a robust nationwide Strategic InformationManagement System (SIMS)
with focus on implementation, monitoring, evaluation and strategic surveillance,
appropriate standards for measuring performance, analyzing variances, identifying
bottlenecks, alerting program managers and facilitating corrective measures. Some generic
Performance Indicators o f the IC-WMPlan have beenrecommendedbelow, which should
be integrated into the NACP SMIS.

        (a)   Implementationo f all components o f the IC-WMPlan;

        (b)   Timely procurement and distribution o f IC-WM consumables and equipment;

        (c)   Regular and timely training programs undertaken;

        (d)   Regular evaluation o f training effectiveness and assessment o f employee
              behavioral practices;

        (e)   Timely interventions and coordinationwith host facility on significant issues
             which could hinder effective implementation o f IC-WMPlan; and

        (f)  Timely and regular reporting and evaluation undertaken, with corrective
             measures when necessary.

4.      ExternalImplementationAudits

The NACP will be responsible for hiringo f an external technical consultant/firm to
undertake an independent evaluation o f the program and its implementation. The agency to
conduct this technical review should be chosen on the basis o f their technical expertise and
established experience in Bio-medical waste management and environmental auditing.
Such an independent audit review will be undertaken once duringthe life o f the program,
preferably before a mid-term evaluation is conducted.




                                              17


MAP SECTION




                                                            55               60                    65                       70                   75                    80                     85                          90
                                                                                                                                                                                             Zaysan
           AFGHANISTAN &                                                                                   KAZAKHSTAN
             CENTRAL ASIA
                                                                                                                                      Saryshagan                                                       Karamay                                45

                                                    45                                       Tyuratam
                                                                            Aral
                      TOWNS                                                 Sea                                                                                                                                            Urumqi
                      NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                       Syrdar'ya                                                                Yining (Gulja)

                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                    Almaty
                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                  Uxxaktal
                                                                            Nukus
                      INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                     Bishkek
                                                                                                                   Chimkent                             (Frunze)
                       BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                         Yuli (Lop Nur)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      He
                                                                                                                     Chirchik
                                                                                     UZBEKISTAN                                                   KYRGYZ                             Aksu      Yarkant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40
                                                                                                                              Tashkent
                                                    40                                                                                              REP.
               0   100  200  300   400   500                                                                                               Fergana

                        KILOMETERS                           TURKMENISTAN                         Samarkand                                                     Kashi
                                                                                       Amu

                                                                    Ashgabat              Dar                           Dushanbe  TAJIKISTAN                                                           C H I N A
                                                                                             ya

                               50
        35                                                                                                                                                                          Hotan

                                        Tehran                                                           BALKH                                   N
                                                                                                                                            HS HA

                 Kermanshah                                    Mashhad                              Mazar-e         KONDOZ
                                                                                                                                       D AK

                                                                                                      Sharif SAMANGAN       TAKHAR  B A                                                                                                       35

                                                                                             FARYAB JOWZJAN
                                                                                                                      BAGHLAN                                                 AKSAI
                                                                                                                                                           JAMMU &
                                                                                     BADGHIS                               KAPISA   KONAR                                     CHIN
                                                                                                          BAMIAN      PARVAN   LAGHMAN
                                                                             Herat              GHOWR                        Kabul
                                                          Tabas                                                  VARDAK      KABOL                         KASHMIR
                                     Esfahan                                    HERAT                                           NANGARHAR
        IRAQ                                                                                                            LOWGAR            Peshawar          Srinagar
                                              ISLAMIC                                               ORUZGAN               PAKTIA       Islamabad

                                                                                     AFGHANISTAN              GHAZNI                  Rawalpindi

               Al Basrah                      REPUBLIC                          FARAH
                                                                                                                                                                                         Gar
        30      Khorramshahr                 OF IRAN                                                              PAKTIKA
                                                                                                         ZABOL

               Kuwait                                                                     Helmand                                                 Lahore
                                                                                                     Qandahar                          Faisalabad                                                                                             30
            KUWAIT                    Shiraz             Kerman                NIMRUZ HELMAND KANDAHAR

                             Bushehr
                                                                                                            Quetta                        Multan



                                                                                                                                                                            New Delhi                       NEPAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kathmandu
                                                                                                                                                                                     Ganges
              Dhahran    Manama                                                                         PAKISTAN            Indus

                        BAHRAIN                                                                                                                                                 Agra               Lucknow
        25                                                                                                                                                         Jaipur
                             Doha                                                                                                                                                              Kanpur
                         QATAR                                                                                                                                                                                                      Patna
                                           Dubai
                                                                Bandar                                                                                                                                                                        25
                                                                                                                                                                                              Allahabad           Varanasi
                                 Abu Dhabi                     Beheshti

                                                                                                                       Hyderabad
                                   U.A.E.                                                         Karachi                                                               I N D I A
                                                            Muscat                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                     Jabalpur                                                     IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                               Bhuj                                                                    and any other information shown on
MA                                              OMAN                       Arabian Sea                                                            Ahmadabad           Indore                           this map do not imply, on the part of          31643R1
  Y                                                                                                                                                                                                    The World Bank Group, any judgment

   2003                                                                                                                                                                                                on the legal status of any territory, or
        20                                                                                                                                                                                            any endorsement or acceptance of
            50                          55                   60                        65                                  70                             75                        Nagpur       such boundaries.                85

