Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/08/2007 
Report No.:  AC2963
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Afghanistan 
Project ID:  P101502 
Project Name:  Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project 
Task Team Leader:  Mariam Claeson 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 16, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: July 31, 2007 
Managing Unit:  SASHD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (70%);General education sector (15%);Media (10%);General public 
administration sector (5%) 
Theme:  HIV/AIDS (P);Gender (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
10.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the project is to contribute to the national development goal of 
maintaining the HIV prevalence below 0.5 per cent in the general population and below 
5% among the vulnerable groups at high risk.   
 
3. Project Description 
To achieve the above objectives the project would be comprise the following four 
components:  
 
Component 1 - Communication and Advocacy:  This component will strengthen 
communication and advocacy for stronger knowledge of HIV prevention, treatment, care, 
and support to modify attitudes of stigma and discrimination among selected vulnerable 
groups, the general population, and institutional and community leaders. This will 
support multi sector and innovative involvement in communication and advocacy for the 
HIV response.  The Communication and advocacy will contribute to creating an enabling 
environment for HIV prevention and treatment, and result in an increase in general 
awareness and knowledge of HIV transmission, prevention and care and reduce the 
stigma associated with HIV and AIDS.  
 
Page  2
Component 2 - Strengthen HIV Surveillance:  This component will build the NACP's 
ability to track the magnitude and trajectory of the HIV epidemic in Afghanistan through 
the adoption of a second generation surveillance (SGS) system. The SGS system includes 
mapping and size estimation of at risk populations and collection of biological and 
behavioral data from representative samples of populations contributing the greatest to 
HIV transmission dynamics. Based on the current understanding of the epidemic, these 
groups include IDU, SW, prisoners, and truckers.  In addition to providing data for 
monitoring the epidemic, the wide array of knowledge, behavioral, and service utilization 
data collected through SGS, provides the evidence base for future resource allocation and 
program management decisions to be made by NACP.  
 
Component 3 - Targeted Interventions for High Risk Behaviors: This component will 
support targeted interventions (TIs)to prevent further spread of HIV among vulnerable 
groups at high risk, and among the general population. The TIs will support safe practices 
and reduce unsafe behaviors. The targeted intervention for HIV prevention among IDUs 
is a comprehensive  harm reduction package, including needle and syringe exchange, 
peer counseling and education, condom promotion, delivered at drop in centers and 
through other outreach services. The services will be delivered where the HIV 
transmission is most likely to occurring, based on mapping of high risk and sero 
prevalence survey data, with flexibility to expand to new sites with outreach services. 
Proposals will be invited for work with identified groups, such as IDUs, sex workers, and 
others as appropriate in selected sites, in the major cities. Each organization responsible 
for one cluster of sites in one city and surrounding area will operate under contract with 
the MOPH through the GCMU under the technical supervision of the NACP.  
 
Component 4 - Program Management, Capacity Building, Monitoring and Innovation 
Fund:  This component will support multi sector HIV coordination through HACCA, 
strengthen program management, capacity development, and monitoring by NACP.  This 
component will also support an Innovation Fund for the national HIV Response.  
Membership of HACCA is extensive and includes NGOs as well as ministries.  The 
Innovation Fund for the HIV Response will invite proposals from other line ministries 
than health. The innovation fund will enable other ministries than health to develop 
action plans in support of the project development objectives: to achieve behavior change 
by scaling up prevention of new infections in high risk groups and/or improve knowledge 
of HIV prevention and modify attitudes of stigma in different population groups.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The main interventions are to be in selected urban centers where the high-risk and 
vulnerable population groups are usually concentrated. In selected cases second-tier cities 
would also need to be included, if the mapping exercises show the prevalence of high risk 
behaviors in those towns. Some interventions like awareness-building activitiees and 
behavior change communications using the media might be national in scope.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli (SASES) 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environment: AIDS-related activities, even preventive ones, generate wastes such as 
sharps (infected needles and syringes, intravenous sets) infected blood, HIV test kits used 
tested centers, blood banks and laboratories, and pharmaceutical wastes. If these wastes 
are not managed properly, they direct environmental and public health implications. 
Health Care Workers (HCWs) are at great risk as most of blood-borne occupational 
infections occur as a result of injuries (due to accidents or unsafe practices) from sharps 
contaminated with HIV-infected blood. Systematic management of such clinical waste 
from source to disposal is therefore integral to preventing infections and controlling the 
HIV epidemic.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Environment. The possible spread of infection due to poor practices at healthcare 
facilities and in their environs would conflict with the overall objective of the HIV/AIDS 
program, which is to prevent and eventually halt the spread of HIV.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not Valid.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Ministry of Public Health already has a Health Care Waste  
 
Management Plan, prepared recently under the Bank-financed Emergency Health 
Project. The Health Care Waste Management plan will be updated no later than 
September 30, 2007, especially to take into account of the recently passed Environmental 
Safety Act. Once updated, the same plan would be applied to the interventions planned 
under this project as well.  
Page  4
The MoPH has taken some measures, working on an environmental policy and are 
trying to identify the right approach among other issues including environmental 
sanitation to the overall problem of bio-medical waste management issue.  The MoPH 
with the help of NGOs, the WB and others carried some observation and preliminary 
assessment of the health facilities in Kabul to find what is the current practices and level 
of understanding concerning medical waste management. As expected there is lack of 
understanding and appreciation among the nurses and some of the health workers.  
 
Institutional arrangement for the HIV/AIDS project is good and the MOPH, despite 
having some capacity constraints, is moving in the right direction. Some of the measures 
to help implement the plan are:  
 
(i)   Development, revision and implementation of the Afghanistan National HIV/AIDS 
Strategic Framework (2006-2010);  
 
(ii)   Establishment and management of VCCT centers nation-wide;  
 
(iii)  Development of national guidelines and protocols for HIV/AIDS management;  
 
(iv)   Establishment of HIV/AIDS Co-ordination Committee of Afghanistan(HACCA);  
 
(v)    Supervision of sero-prevalence surveys and KABP studies; and  
 
(vi)   Fund raising to ensure sustainability of the HIV/AIDS interventions.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
During the initial situation assessment of the waste management issue in the health 
facilities, the team visited government-run health facilities, blood bank, medical officers 
and NGOs-run facilities and many other medical officers and health care workers were 
visited. NGOS will be actively participating in the prevention and awareness raising 
campaign against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. VCTCs, STI clinics are other important front 
line partners who were consulted and will continuously play a very active role in the fight 
against the HIV/AIDS.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/12/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
07/31/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
07/31/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Page  5
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Mariam Claeson 
04/28/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli 
05/02/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Anabela Abreu 
05/08/2007 
Comments:   
