                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00002554



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-H3280)



                                ON A

                               GRANT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR, EURO 6.60 MILLION
                     (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                               FOR AN

             AFGHANISTAN HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT

                              (P101502)



                             June 21, 2013




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective January 28, 2013)

                         Currency Unit = Afghani
                           1.00 = US$0.01934
                           US$ 1.00 = 51.7000

                            FISCAL YEAR
                          March 21 – March 20

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AHAPP    Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
AIDS     Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ART      Antiretroviral Treatment (Therapy)
BCC      Behavior Change Communication
BPHS     Basic Package of Health Services
EC       European Commission
FSW      Female Sex Worker
GoIRA    Government of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
HACCA    HIV/AIDS Coordinating Committee of Afghanistan
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HMIS     Health Management Information System
HR       Harm Reduction
I-ANDS   Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy
IBBS     Integrated Biological and Behavioral Surveys
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IDU(s)   Injecting Drug User(s)
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
KAP      Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs     Millennium Development goals
MOCN     Ministry of Counter-Narcotics
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOJ      Ministry of Justice
MOPH     Ministry of Public Health
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MDM      Medecins du Monde
MSM      Men who have Sex with Men
MSW      Male Sex Worker
NACP     National AIDS Control Program
NGOs     Non-Government Organizations
OECD     Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
OST      Opioid Substitution therapy
PLWHA    People Living with HIV and AIDS
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infection
SW       Sex Worker
TIs      Targeted Interventions
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNAIDS   Joint United Nations Program on HIV and AIDS
UNODC    United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
VCT      Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO      World Health Organization




                       Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                    Country Director: Robert Saum
                      Sector Manager: Julie McLaughlin
                 Project Team Leader: Mohammad Tawab Hashemi
           ICR Team Leader & Author: Robert Oelrichs
                             ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
                                HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT
                                           (P101502)




                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52
  Annex 7. Figures ........................................................................................................... 55
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Afghanistan HIV/AIDS
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:
                                                                           Prevention Project
Project ID:             P101502                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H3280
ICR Date:               05/03/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 6.60M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.40M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.60M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process                 Date          Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/31/2006     Effectiveness:            09/17/2007        09/17/2007
Appraisal:             04/16/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/31/2007     Mid-term Review:          02/03/2010        02/11/2010
                                      Closing:                  12/31/2010        11/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                           None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   26                  26
Health                                                              70                  70
Other social services                                                4                   4


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
HIV/AIDS                                                            67                  67
Health system performance                                           33                  33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                 Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Robert J. Saum                     Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Julie McLaughlin                   Julian F. Schweitzer
Project Team Leader:       Mohammad Tawab Hashemi             Mariam Claeson
ICR Team Leader:           Robert Oelrichs
ICR Primary Author:        Robert Oelrichs

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to slow down the spread of HIV and build up the
national capacity to respond to the epidemic by i) behavior change among vulnerable
groups at high risk, and ii) improving knowledge of HIV prevention and reducing stigma
related to HIV and AIDS in the general population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not revised
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target        Formally     Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)           Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     HIV prevalence in the general population at less than 0.5%
Value
quantitative or   <0.5%                      <0.5%                             <0.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2007                 12/31/2010                        11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          100% of target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   HIV prevalence amongst high risk groups (IDU and SW) less than 5%
                                                                              IDU = 4.4%, FSW
Value
                IDU:7.1%, SW: 0%                                              = 0.3%, MSM =
quantitative or                             <5%
                (IBBS 2009)                                                   0.4%, Prisoners =
Qualitative)
                                                                              0.7%
Date achieved 06/30/2007                    12/31/2010                        11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% of target achieved.
achievement)
                Percentage of health workers who correctly identify ways of preventing HIV
Indicator 3 :
                transmission
Value
                19.3% (Health facility
quantitative or                                                 75%           Data not available
                assessment 2011)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2011                                        06/30/2012
Comments
                Data were to be collected via health facility assessment by March 2013. The draft
(incl. %
                version available at the time of this ICR did not include HIV indicators.
achievement)
                Among health workers who have heard of HIV, the percentage who are willing
Indicator 4 :
                to care for patients with HIV
Value
                24.4% (Health facility
quantitative or                                                 80%            Data not available
                assessment 2011)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2011                                        06/30/2012
Comments
                Data were to be collected via health facility assessment by March 2013. The draft
(incl. %
                version available at the time of this ICR did not include HIV indicators.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Percentage of SW reporting use of condom with their most recent client
Value
quantitative or 58% (IBBS 2009)             50%                 >60%          52.3% (IBBS 2012)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2009                    12/31/2010          06/30/2012    11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        87% of target achieved. (In IBBS 2012 the indicator is “Condom use at last sex?)
achievement)
                  Percentage of IDUs reporting use of sterile injection equipment at last time of
Indicator 6 :
                  injection
Value
quantitative or 95% (IBBS 2009)            30% increase        >80%            92.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2009                   12/31/2010          06/30/2012      11/30/2012
                Target exceeded by 15%. The validity of the 2009 IBBS data on this indicator
                was questioned at MTR and judged to be probably inaccurate. This indicator was
Comments
                not assessed in the full IDU IBBS sample in 2012, only in two prison sites,
(incl. %
                giving a rate of 41%. The figure used here is instead derived from IBBS indicator
achievement)
                of “Used non-sterile injecting equipment at least once in the past 3 months? is
                used, which is used as a proxy for national data.
Indicator 7 : Percentage of IDU reporting use of condom at last time sex
Value                                                                          23.9% (crude
quantitative or 27% IBBS 2009              20% increase        >40%            average of IBBS
Qualitative)                                                                   2012)
Date achieved 06/30/2009                   12/31/2010          06/30/2012      11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        60% of target achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     IBBS maintained and expanded to southern and eastern sites of the country
Value
(quantitative     4                                             6               6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2009                                    06/30/2012      11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          100% of target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of Drug Users enrolled in OST.
Value
(quantitative     0                                             200             71
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2007                                    06/30/2012      11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          36% of target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of urban centers which have done high risk group mapping
Value
(quantitative     3 cities                   33% of provinces 4 cities          6 cities
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2007               12/31/2010           06/30/2012      10/04/2012
Comments          Target was exceeded by 50%.
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Percentage of most at risk populations (e.g., IDUs, FSWs, prisoners) reached by
Indicator 4 :
                  HIV prevention program.
                  IDU: 62.4%                  IDU: 60%           IDU: 70%       IDU: 90.2%
Value
                  FSW: 1.4%                   FSW: 50%           FSW: 10%       FSW: 8.3%
(quantitative
                  Prisoners: NA               Trucker: 25%       Prisoners:     Prisoners: NA
or Qualitative)
                  (IBBS 2009)                 Prisoners: 80%     80%            (IBBS 2012)
Date achieved     06/30/2009                  12/31/2010         06/30/2012     11/30/2012
                  Target partially achieved (129% in IDU, 83% in SW and data not available in
Comments
                  prisoners). The indicator is based on the question in the IBBS survey “Use of risk
(incl. %
                  reduction service among those corresponding who have heard about the
achievement)
                  services?.
                  Percentage of most at risk populations (e.g. IDUs, FSWs, prisoners) who
Indicator 5 :
                  correctly identify two ways of preventing HIV transmission
                  IDU: 71.4%                  IDU: 50%           IDU: 75%       IDU: 22.1%
Value
                  FSW: 12.8%                  FSW: 50%           FSW: 20%       FSW: 15.3%
(quantitative
                  Prisoners: 25.4%            Trucker: 50%       Prisoners:     Prisoners: 6.6%
or Qualitative)
                  (IBBS 2009)                 Prisoners: 75%     30%            (IBBS 2012)
Date achieved     06/30/2009                  12/31/2010         06/30/2012     11/30/2012
Comments
                29% of target achieved among IDUs, 76% among FSWs and 22% among
(incl. %
                prisoners.
achievement)
                Annual NACP reports and action plans informed by surveillance and routine
Indicator 6 :
                monitoring data
Value                                     Annual reports and                 Annual reports and
(quantitative   0                         actions                            actions
or Qualitative)                           plans available                    plans available
Date achieved 06/30/2007                  12/31/2010                         10/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target 100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : TI sites meeting service quality standards
                                          IDU: 5 of 6                        IDU: 7 of 7
Value                                                         >75% of sites
                                          FSW:1 of 1                         FSW: 1 of 1
(quantitative    0                                           Truckers
                                          Trucker: 1 of 1                    Data for prisoners
or Qualitative)                                              dropped
                                          Prisoners: 1 of 1                  available
Date achieved 06/30/2007                  12/31/2010         06/30/2012      10/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded by 25%.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Financial Management reports include physical progress report
                                                             Financial
                                                             Management
Value           Financial Management
                                                             reports include
(quantitative   reports did not include                                       Done
                                                             physical
or Qualitative) physical progress reports
                                                             progress
                                                             reports
Date achieved                             06/28/2009       06/30/2012     10/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target was 100% achieved.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1    01/14/2008          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               0.13
                                                     Moderately
  2    07/13/2008    Moderately Satisfactory                                           0.60
                                                   Unsatisfactory
  3    01/18/2009    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                1.54
  4    08/02/2009    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                3.26
  5    04/14/2010        Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                5.43
  6    01/15/2011        Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                6.58
  7    09/07/2011        Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                8.07
  8    06/05/2012    Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                9.07
                          Moderately
  9    11/20/2012                            Moderately Satisfactory                   9.99
                        Unsatisfactory

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of the closing date by
                                                     18 months to June 30, 2012.
 06/28/2010       N       S     MS            5.43   Cancellation of part 4.2 in
                                                     Schedule 1 to the FA (the
                                                     Innovation Initiative).
                                                     Extension of the closing date by
 06/28/2012       N       MS    MS            9.38
                                                     5 months to 11/30/2012
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2007, an assessment of the transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in
Afghanistan revealed a disturbing picture. The levels of high risk behavior in key
populations indicated there was fertile ground for an explosive epidemic within these high
risk groups, as had been seen in other countries of the region. Little national capacity or
resources were present to mitigate this risk, as the country grappled with the consequences
of decades of war and instability. Alarmingly, a survey in 2007 had shown a sudden
emergence of HIV infection in injection drug users (IDU) 1 , and fertile ground for
transmission to accelerate in other key populations. A paper published in the Lancet (Saif-
ur-Rehman, 2007) by representatives of the Government of Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan (GoIRA) and the World Bank highlighted international concern that, without
swift action, an epidemic of HIV in IDU would be precipitated, with risk of significant
spread to the general population. The purpose of the Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention
Project (AHAPP) was to assist the Government of Afghanistan in achieving the national
development goal of maintaining HIV prevalence below 0.5 percent in the general
population and below 5 percent among vulnerable groups at high risk.

HIV Epidemic and Response

At appraisal, in 2007, the HIV epidemic was judged to be at an early stage in Afghanistan,
concentrated among high risk groups, mainly IDU and their partners. Although HIV
prevalence was low, there was high potential for rapid spread due to increases in injecting
(as opposed to non-injecting) drug use. A study among IDU in Kabul city (Todd, 2007a)
had found that three percent of the IDU were HIV positive. In Quetta, a town in Pakistan
bordering Afghanistan, a 24% prevalence of HIV infection among IDU was reported
(Achakzai, 2007). UNAIDS and WHO estimated that there were potentially already 1,000
to 2,000 HIV-positive cases in Afghanistan at this time. Specific data were lacking –
especially the population size, degree of risk and accurate HIV prevalence in key
populations, including sex workers (SW) and men who have sex with men (MSM).
However, global and regional experience at that time indicated that each of these groups
were likely to be vulnerable to a rapidly expanding epidemic – and that this might in turn
lead to increased HIV transmission in the general population of Afghanistan. IDU-driven
epidemics in particular had been shown to ignite suddenly, sometimes after long periods of
latency. For example, between 1995 and 1997, HIV-1 seroprevalence among the IDU of
Kathmandu, Nepal had risen from 0% to between 40-50% (Oelrichs, 2000).



1
 Note – During the preparation and implementation of this project, the term “Injecting Drug Users? (IDU)
was most frequently employed by the Bank and UN agencies to denote those individuals at high risk of
HIV infection, as is reflected in this document. The term “People Who Inject Drugs? (PWID) is now
preferred (UNAIDS).


                                                   1
Despite the absence of definitive data, other key populations were thought likely to be
vulnerable to HIV infection - including inmates of Afghan prisons, long distance truck
drivers and street children. Several structural amplifiers were identified, that potentially
heightened the national risk for rapid spread of HIV. These included chronic war and
conflict and attendant migration, displacement and poverty. At that time, almost four
million Afghan refugees still lived in Pakistan and Iran, countries which both had rapidly
growing IDU-driven HIV epidemics. In addition, the literacy rate in the general population
was very low, with little awareness about HIV/AIDS and almost no condom use. Unsafe
blood transfusion added to the risk of spread to general population, with only 30 percent of
transfused blood being tested for HIV. A particular contextual risk was presented by the
local production of opium – which exceeded 6,000 tons in 2006, representing 92 percent of
the global total. Increasing use of heroin in Afghanistan and the focus of counter-narcotic
efforts on supply reduction, was thought to increase the risk of opium users turning to
injecting heroin, thus amplifying the risk of HIV transmission. The project was thus
proposed and planned in a context of urgency, recognizing that action was needed to avert
a much larger epidemic – and putting acquisition of categorical epidemiological data at the
heart of project activities.

A critical consideration at appraisal was the perceived very low capacity of the GoIRA.
Although the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) had developed a national strategic plan, it
had very little capacity or resources to implement an effective HIV prevention program at
any scale. This was identified as a major risk and therefore it was decided to implement
project activities mainly through experienced international and national Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs). At that time, the Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS), which
was aimed by MOPH to cover 90 percent of the population, was largely delivered by
contracted NGOs. A transparent and efficient mechanism for contracting out of services to
NGOs had already been established; hence, it was decided to build on this experience –
also contracting out the important surveillance and communications components to firms
with proven track-records in building capacity and implementing these activities, and in
working with the National AIDS Control Program (NACP).

Rationale for Bank Assistance

Prior to this project, HIV/AIDS prevention programs had been fragmented and small scale
in Afghanistan. A few local and international NGOs and development partners provided
prevention services to high-risk and vulnerable populations - mainly HIV prevention
interventions for IDU, including demand reduction activities. A limited number of
interventions had also been designed and launched among SWs, MSM, truck drivers, and
police and prison staff. Government policies and strategies were favorable - one of the
pillars of the Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy was the goal to keep HIV
prevalence in the general population at less than 0.5 percent.

The Bank had been a lead player in Afghanistan’s health sector since 2003 and was playing
an instrumental role in assisting the MOPH to rebuild the basic health service system in
Afghanistan through policy dialogue, technical assistance and funding support for the
delivery of the BPHS in 11 provinces. Through these efforts, the Bank was perceived by

                                            2
development partners to play a critical role in the health sector – as it had gained extensive
experience and knowledge on delivery of health services in this fragile country context. At
the time that the GoIRA requested financial assistance for HIV/AIDS Prevention, the Bank
had already provided some support to build the capacity of the NACP. The Bank had also
supported some formative analytic work – notably the social mapping of groups at high
risk of HIV infection. At appraisal, the main rationale for Bank involvement in supporting
the national HIV/AIDS response was the lack of sufficient financial support for HIV/AIDS
programming from other sources as well as the Bank’s considerable experience in assisting
countries in South Asia to deal with HIV systematically. The role of other development
partners in financing the HIV response was also taken into account in estimating the overall
Bank support for the operation. The IDA grant was calculated to provide a third of the
budgeted national program over a three year period, with minor support for blood bank
safety secured from French Cooperation and more anticipated from the Global Fund for
AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFTAM).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project was intended to “contribute to the national development goals of the Interim
Afghanistan National Development Strategy of maintaining HIV prevalence below 0.5
percent in the general population and below 5 percent among vulnerable groups at high risk
of infection? (PDO Indicators 1 and 2).

The project’s development objectives were to slow down the spread of HIV and build up
the national capacity to respond to the epidemic. This would be accomplished by: (a)
behavior change among vulnerable groups at high risk; and (b) improving knowledge of
HIV prevention and reducing stigma related to HIV and AIDS in the general population?.
The key performance indicators for the project, as presented in the Appraisal Document
were:

      The percent of injecting drug users who have adopted behaviors that reduce
       transmission of HIV, that is, who use clean injecting equipment at last time
       injecting;
      The percent of sex workers who report using a condom with their most recent
       client; and
      The percent of young people aged 15-24, in areas covered by the project, who
       correctly identify ways of preventing HIV transmission.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The PDO was not revised. At Mid-Term review (February 2010), the Results Framework
(RF) was suggested to be revised, reflecting the finding that several indicators of the
original Framework had proven difficult to measure, or provided little added value in
understanding the dynamics of the highly concentrated HIV epidemic in Afghanistan. The
indicator pertaining to knowledge in the general population (original Intermediate Indicator
9) was dropped, as was Indicator 6 on condom use in truckers, as HIV prevalence had been
found to be zero in this group. New indicators were added on knowledge and attitude

                                             3
amongst health workers, patient enrollment in the pilot opioid substitution therapy (OST –
also referred to as methadone maintenance therapy) site and financial management. The
revised Results Framework was formalized in the project restructuring paper (June 28,
2010) and is reflected in the ICR Datasheet. The resulting RF monitored five of the original
seven PDO indicators and four of the original eight Intermediate Outcome indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target groups of this project were to be the key populations in Afghanistan at
risk of HIV infection, hence primarily the socially excluded groups of sex workers and IDU
– also including interventions for truck drivers, and prison inmates. However it was the
intention of the project to allow the focus of activities to be guided by evidence. Once
sound epidemiological data on risk and HIV prevalence had been obtained from the
project’s first Integrated Bio-behavioral Survey (IBBS), the focus of interventions would
be adjusted. Much of the activity in Communication and Advocacy (Component 1) was
also focused on promoting a policy environment that enabled these interventions in key
populations to proceed. As stated in the PDO, activities directed to key populations were
also anticipated to control the spread of HIV in the general population – which by
extension was a stated beneficiary. The first PDO indicator (population HIV prevalence)
emphasized the importance of this goal, and the original intermediate outcome indicator
quantifying young people’s knowledge on preventing HIV transmission made it specific.

1.5 Original Components (as approved in Technical Annex: Report No: T7698 - AF)
(See full details under Annex 2)

Component 1: Communications and Advocacy (US$1.06 million – total estimated
baseline costs). This component was intended to strengthen the advocacy and
communication capacity of the NACP to create a policy environment that enabled scaling
up of targeted interventions (TIs) for vulnerable populations at high risk, and reduced
stigma and discrimination related to high risk behaviors. The component included
Communications activities, Behavior change communications and Advocacy activities.

Component 2: Strengthening of HIV Surveillance (US$1.61 million – total estimated
baseline costs). This component was intended to build the evidence base for HIV and AIDS
planning and help monitor the effectiveness of the program. It included separate mapping
and size estimation of at risk populations, collection of biological data from representative
samples of the populations, and tracking the behaviors that contribute the most to HIV
transmission dynamics).

Component 3: Targeted Interventions for High Risk Behaviors (US$4.06 million –
total estimated baseline costs). This component was intended to support TIs to prevent
further spread of HIV among vulnerable groups at highest risk, promoting safe practices
and reducing risky ones. TIs for IDU, sex workers and their clients, truckers and prisoners
included a) gathering of baseline data to estimate the size of the populations to be covered;
b) establishment and operation of appropriate services such as, in the case of HIV
prevention among IDU, drop in centers (DIC), social support, needle and syringe exchange,

                                            4
OST (in one package in Kabul and among prisoners), condom distribution, sexually
transmitted infections (STI) care, other medical support, and Voluntary Counseling and
Testing (VCT); and c) reporting.

Component 4: Program Management, Capacity Building, Monitoring and Innovation
Activities (US$1.80 million – total estimated baseline costs). This component was intended
to strengthen the core functions of the national HIV/AIDS prevention program, including
program management, capacity development, program monitoring by NACP, and oversight
of the HIV/AIDS Coordinating Committee of Afghanistan (HACCA).

1.6 Revised Components

At the MTR mission in February 2010, it was decided that Component 4 should be revised,
which was undertaken in the June 2010 restructuring. Specifically, due to a failed
procurement for the Innovation Activities, and the low prospects for an acceptable bid, this
sub-component was dropped and the funds were re-programmed to additional interventions
for IDU and institutionalization of surveillance.

1.7 Other significant changes

During the February 2010 MTR, an agreement was reached to extend the Closing Date of
the project by 18 months. The reasons for this were the delayed start to the project, which
had been rapidly prepared under Emergency Procedures. As a result, it was projected that
there would be US$30 million unspent and a number of critical activities uncompleted, if
the original closing date has been kept. A second extension of a further five months was
granted in June, 2012 – extending the project until the end of November 2012.This
extension was to allow completion of the second round of the IBBS survey – an important
surveillance activity under the project.

During the MTR, the MOPH and the Bank also reached agreement on a set of priorities for
the remainder of the project term. These were informed by the first round IBBS, which had
indicated that MSM should be included as a key population, and that interventions for truck
drivers should be de-emphasized. The priorities specifically covered a) expansion of high
quality harm reduction services among IDU in Herat and possibly other western provinces,
b) extension of current harm reduction contracts for IDU and prevention efforts among
CSW by 18 months and c) postponement of the second round of IBBS for 1 year, while
expanding it to eastern and southern provinces and including MSM, besides other high risk
groups.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The preparation of this project was shaped by three broad considerations. Firstly, in 2006/7,
knowledge of the diversity of global HIV epidemics was changing. Although it was already
clear that many epidemics outside Africa were contributed to importantly by transmission

                                            5
amongst key populations at risk, it was not yet understood to what extent national epidemic
spread in the general population might be limited in such concentrated epidemics. It
remained a fear that any significant transmission within a country was a harbinger of an
incipient generalized epidemic. This project was at the vanguard of evidence-driven design,
placing interventions directed to key populations at the center – but the development
objective and key indicators also included general population impact.

Secondly, the Afghanistan epidemic was approached with a sense of urgency. The two
main reasons for this were firstly, the recent regional experience of explosive epidemic
spread in high risk groups, and secondly, alarming (albeit very limited) epidemiological
data showing high rates of infection and large vulnerable populations in Afghanistan.
Coupled with this was the fear that rapid, unchecked spread between IDU would lead to
significant spread in the general population – perhaps with the attendant social and
economic sequelae being seen in African countries. Urgently stopping a national epidemic
was the objective of this project.

Thirdly, the particular national context of Afghanistan as a fragile and conflict-affected
state underscored all aspects of project design. The risks attached to an intervention in an
insecure and politically unstable situation, were amplified by very limited capacity of the
implementing agency. These risks were well recognized by the Bank. The project team also
recognized the particular challenges attached to providing services for marginalized and
stigmatized populations (sex workers, drug users, prisoners) within a society with little
traditional interest in these groups. The proposed interventions themselves – OST
especially – were also contentious and, if not experimental, then at least still on the margins
of AIDS control programming in many countries. Importantly, the project placed
significant emphasis on advocacy and communication activities that would facilitate the
development of a favorable policy environment for accessing these populations with this
ambitious plan of services. In the end, much of the progress in implementation hinged on
critical policy and regulatory bottlenecks, some of which proved intractable to advocacy
activities. Given the above mentioned considerations, the following key factors stand out as
influencing project preparation and design.

a)      Fragile security environment - the risks that security posed to the project were
clearly and reasonably assessed during project preparation. The country health team was
well aware of the impact of uncertain security on operations, through experience with the
Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development project. It is worth stating first,
and with emphasis, that to pursue this project to deliver services for some of the most
disenfranchised populations, within this most fractured society, was a highly commendable
aim, consistent with the best aspirations of the Bank. The project was designed to focus its
targeted interventions geographically, in four cities: Kabul, Jalalabad, Mazar and Herat,
where security had remained more stable. Given that security concerns did not affect this
project during implementation to a degree disproportionate to other projects, this judgment
was well founded.
b)      Cultural and political sensitivities surrounding Harm Reduction - Drug use
clearly has particular cultural and political connotations in Afghanistan. It was recognized
during preparation that the project would need to invest considerable effort in advocacy to

                                             6
sway political opinion towards permitting (if not actively supporting) implementation of
needle and syringe services and OST. Although OST was to be only one element of
services provided under the project, it was a high-profile intervention due to its innovative
approach – and received international attention. The team was probably encouraged by
some success of the Bank in catalyzing policy change in China, Viet Nam and elsewhere –
as well the spectacular success of harm reduction approaches in Australia (from where
consultants contributed expert advice). It is not clear, however, what process was followed
to ascertain the critical point of how feasible it might be to bring about a more permissive
policy environment in Afghanistan. It is possible that had more time been spent on
consultation, with a broader range of stakeholders, the intractable political (and ideological)
opposition to OST – which differed from general resistance to providing services for IDU -
may have become apparent earlier.
c)      NGO contracting - Opting to design the project with heavy reliance on NGOs to
deliver activities was based on solid experience. At the time, it was recognized as the best
option to deal with a situation of extremely limited capacity of Government in providing
services or high-risk groups. A transparent and efficient mechanism for contracting out of
services to NGOs had been established under the previous Bank supported health project in
Afghanistan. Highly capable firms with strong country track-records were available - for
example Johns Hopkins University, which undertook the important surveillance
components. What does not seem to have been anticipated during design was the degree to
which reliance on NGOs placed the timeline of implementation at risk. Although the
contracts did contain standard linkage of NGO payments to deliverables, a more finely
structured set of incentives for performance may have given the project more leverage to
ensure timely provision of services.
d)      Emphasis on generating epidemiological evidence - It was correct to address the
dearth of rigorous HIV monitoring data available in Afghanistan. There was sufficient
epidemiological basis from outside the country also to have concern about HIV spread to
other vulnerable groups - particularly sex workers, where high risk behavior had been
documented. The project very appropriately anticipated that the emphasis of activities
should be revised, based on evidence generated of the HIV prevalence and risks of these
populations. This did, however, make the project especially vulnerable to delay in timely
production of these data. At the design phase it seems clear that the primary purpose of
supporting surveillance was programmatic – with the data to be made immediately
available and owned by the GoIRA. A quite different emphasis is apparent shortly into the
project life, when a very elaborate study was envisaged by the firm, rigorous enough for
research quality publication, but commensurately costly and time consuming. This even led
to some confusion between the firm and NACP, as to the ownership of data gathered for
research purposes.

AHAPP project documents clearly note the substantial risks that were assessed during
preparation in 2007. Largely the same team was responsible for the concurrent Afghanistan
health project financed by the Bank, Strengthening Health Activities for the Rural Poor
(SHARP) - in which the team was faced with many of the same contextual implementation
risks as in AHAPP. These are nicely summarized in the Emergency Project Paper for
SHARP (February 2009), which rated most of them as High. They include a) Overall
country inherent risk, b) Growing insecurity disrupting provision of services in certain

                                             7
areas as well as hampering monitoring and evaluation of activities, c) Perceived corruption,
d) Political opposition to contracting, e) Weak implementation capacity of MOPH –
particularly in financial management and procurement.

2.2 Implementation

The assessment of risk during AHAPP project preparation was largely focused on specific
implementation challenges to the project. The following mitigation measures were
proposed during preparation (as outlined in the Memorandum of the President), resulting in
the following experience during implementation:

  Project Risk Mitigation proposed              Experience during Implementation
  Envisaged
  Weak             Project activities to be     The model proved largely successful – although
  implementation carried out mainly by          complexities in procurement resulted in delays with
  capacity of the experienced NGOs, under a NGO contracting.
  executing        transparent and efficient
  agency           contracting mechanism
  Security         Target interventions         Significant delays were experienced in hiring
  situation may geographically, in four cities: consultants to key positions. The security situation
  discourage       Kabul, Jalalabad, Mazar and was identified as a key constraint to attracting and
  NGOs and         Herat where security to date retaining international consultants. The constrained
  consultants      has remained more stable     site of project activities, although essential for
  from                                          security considerations, made flexible allocation of
  participating in                              project resources in response to epidemiological
  the country, or                               data more difficult.
  outside of
  Kabul
  The general      National AIDS policy will be The policy dialogue proved fruitful at several levels
  lack of          prepared by the MOPH,        – including resulting in the development of key
  awareness and supported by key ministries policies consistent with project objectives.
  widespread       and endorsed by parliament. However, barriers to OST at the policy and service
  stigma           Communications component delivery level proved intractable. The contribution
  associated with of the proposed project will of the communications components (as distinct from
  HIV and risky contribute to creating an       advocacy activities) is difficult to establish.
  practices.       enabling environment.

There is little evidence that any significant risk to AHAPP went unnoticed. Significant
risks did receive attention, as was noted in ISRs and other mission documents.

There are several additional issues which had an impact on implementation progress, as
follows:
a)      Delays in the IBBS rounds. The data collection activity for the first IBBS of IDU,
SWs, and prisoners was initially planned to be completed within the first 6-9 months of the
project. As noted above, the IBBS implemented by the consultant firm took considerably
longer than this (completed 2009) and suffered procedural delays due to its elaborate and
research-focused approach. Despite the expense and delays associated with the first round
IBBS, the MTR recommended that future rounds should be expanded, and should be done

                                                8
every two to three years. As it transpired, the second round proved to be even more delayed
than the first, faced procurement challenges, and was the main reason for the final five
months extension of the project Closing Date (Level two Approved on 28 June 2012). The
final report was only submitted five months after the project Closing Date. As a
consequence of these delays in the survey, project ISRs (including the last ISR) reflect
unchanged data on indicators over much of the project life, as the definitive data to inform
these were serially delayed. This was unfortunate as the IBBS was specifically conceived
to be a tool to increase efficiency of the project by providing timely data and informing a
more accurate tailoring of its response. Instead, the delayed and infrequent data did not
facilitate responsive implementation - and in the end delayed the project itself. The use of a
much less elaborate but frequent method of surveillance – using a sampling methodology
chosen with the priority of generating rapid program-ready data from multiple sites, may
have provided more timely data, with little loss of accuracy. In future, the team could
consider more closely supporting the client to obtain a package of surveillance services in
line with its program needs.
b)       Contracting of services to local and international NGOs. The advantages of the
mechanism of contracting services to NGOs have been discussed above. The proof of the
success of this approach is its subsequent adoption in the newly approved SEHAT project.
Despite the overall positive results of using this methodology, there were delays in the
contracting process - primarily due to lack of experience of the implementing agency (but
also of the Bank), amplified by the restricted field of potential contractors.
c)       Uneven response to evidence. Although delayed, the first IBBS provided
categorical evidence on the Afghanistan epidemic – clearly demonstrating for the first time
the absence of HIV infection in several groups thought to be at increased risk – notably
road transport workers and female sex workers. It also highlighted extreme regional
variation in the epidemic, with significantly higher HIV rates in western Afghanistan.
However, these findings were unevenly translated into an operational response. Although
services for road transport workers were de-emphasized after the MTR, those for sex
workers were continued. (At the end of the project term, surveillance had identified just
three HIV positive sex workers in the entire country). On the other hand, the MTR rightly
proposed an increase in services to those regions most affected by the epidemic – but this
was slowly and partially implemented in the remainder of the project.
d)       Balance between evidence and economy. Throughout the life of the project, OST
(and other harm reduction services) were provided by an iNGO at a single clinic in Kabul.
The quality of services was excellent by international standards – as several independent
technical reviews attested. However, as a model for expansion, the site was completely
unsustainable. The large number of medical, pharmacy and other professional staff,
together with the costs of the services themselves resulted in a large annual operating
budget – despite the fact that a maximum of 70 patients was being serviced at any one time.
That alternative, lower-cost models were not explored over the life of the project illustrates
two issues. Firstly, as noted in b) above, contracting these services out to an international
NGO with its own set of stakeholders and standards may have reduced the incentives to
explore adaptions in service provision specific to the Afghanistan context. Secondly, the
OST pilot operated as a demonstration project with a dominant purpose to convince policy
makers that international evidence of the success of this approach could be relevant in the
country. Innovation in this political context was very difficult – as the mandate was to

                                             9
follow global best practice examples, not to explore potential efficiencies which may have
entailed risks.
e)      Human resources. Implementation was challenged throughout the project life by
difficultly in recruiting national consultants which, due to the very limited government
capacity, filled the majority of posts in the NACP. The same difficulties pertained to the
international HIV/AIDS consultant position – in which retention also proved to be a
challenge. These delays were at least in part due to the security situation, which made the
position of international technical advisor unattractive. Several candidates to this position
withdrew their application after recruitment had commenced. At least one incumbent in the
position left earlier than contracted. These difficulties are noted in ISRs and other project
documents and were neither specific to this project nor within the control of the Bank to
effectively alter.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The major points concerning the design and use of surveillance have been made above.
These are expanded on below:

a)       Focusing on generation of epidemiological evidence was a great strength. The
institution of analytic work to capture data from marginalized populations (IDU, MSM and
sex workers) was an enormously progressive step, especially in the political and social
context of Afghanistan. As has been seen elsewhere in the region, the Bank’s focus on
program efficiency led logically to acknowledgement of the importance of populations at
risk in the epidemic, and supported generation and rigorous analysis of evidence of the
burden of disease and the efficacy of interventions targeted to these groups. This project is
one piece of a broader effort that has fundamentally changed the way international
assistance for AIDS is delivered. The first round of the IBBS survey (2009) proved the
importance of this investment. The categorical data on HIV in key populations allowed the
project to focus its efforts on those most affected by the epidemic – IDU – and to
strengthen provision of services in the geographic areas where prevalence was highest.
Interventions and monitoring in truckers were dropped when the HIV prevalence was
found to be zero. Although a rate of 0% was also found in sex workers, interventions
continued in this group – a reasonable decision given the high risk behavior that had been
documented.
b)       Paradoxically, the ambitious aim of the surveillance work led to the choice of
unwieldy, expensive methods which produced infrequent and delayed data. For example
the choice of respondent driven sampling (RDS), the method used for the IBBS among
IDU and sex workers, was recognized to be “cutting edge technology, subject to new
statistical developments and evolving implementation issues? in 20082. Project progress
was closely tied to implementation of surveillance from the beginning – indeed initiation of
IBBS was a legal covenant of the financing agreement. This choice of surveillance
approach had an effect on the team’s ability to monitor project impact – with ISRs relying



2
    Implementation Support Mission (March 15-20, 2008). Aide–mémoire


                                                 10
on the same indicator data points for some indicators between 2010 and 2012. The use of a
more rapid, frequent method of monitoring (for example expanded annual sentinel
surveillance, convenience sampling or case reporting) may have made supervision more
effective.
c)      In retrospect, the Afghanistan context in fact makes it unlikely that there would be
significant spread of HIV from IDU to the general population. Although sexual risk
behavior and sexually transmitted diseases are present in other groups, HIV remains almost
completely confined to IDU. Together with estimation of a maximum of 20,000 IDU in the
country, this made it essentially impossible that the 0.5% general population prevalence
chosen for the first PDO indicator would be exceeded. At the MTR, and at the project
restructuring (June 2010), it was recognized that the general population indicator
(knowledge in 15-24 year olds) was of “little added value in understanding the dynamics of
the HIV epidemic in…Afghanistan? and it was dropped. The 0.5% general population
prevalence was retained – probably because of its status as a goal in the Interim National
Development Strategy.
d)      At the same time, the RF was enhanced by the addition of indicators around the
coverage and quality of service delivery, i.e., the knowledge and attitude of health workers
to HIV and enrollment under the pilot OST program. The latter of these proved critically
important, as it documented in real time the difficulties in implementation faced by the
OST clinic from political opposition to the importation and use of methadone. It may also
have been useful to have included an additional indicator of the OST site that reflected the
difficulty and great value of having established and maintained such a facility in a
challenging political and security environment. This ICR review is constrained to quantify
the success of the OST pilot in terms of patients enrolled only – however the quality of the
achievement itself was excellent, as is noted in several places in this review.
e)      The baseline values for the health worker indicators were assessed in a health
facility assessment conducted in December 2011. The second health facility assessment
was scheduled to be available by March 2013. The draft of this report has been shared with
the MOPH by the contractor; however the HIV related indicators were not included as part
of the main report. These will be analyzed separately, and should be completed before the
end of June 2013; however at the time of writing this ICR report, the data are not available
for review.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management: A significant number of financial management risks were assessed
as high at appraisal and the financial management (FM) arrangements were continuously
monitored and reviewed during the project. However the MTR noted only a number of
relatively minor fiduciary issues – including delays in undertaking audits of NGOs and
internal project activities. At this time, ongoing issues with payments to NGO contractors
were noted - the project disbursement stalled for the periods of July to November 2008 and
September to December 2009. This was subsequently rectified and financial management
was assessed as moderately satisfactory by following implementation support missions.
After MTR, a new Intermediate Result Indicator was proposed – “FM Reports include
physical project report?. Compliance with this by the quarterly reports is noted in
subsequent ISRs, and this indicator is rated as “achieved? at ICR.

                                           11
Procurement is rated consistently as moderately satisfactory. A consistent theme in earlier
supervision missions (2008 and 2009) is the slow process of contracting firms and
individual consultants, due to the low capacity of the NACP procurement unit. However no
serious issues of non-compliance were noted.

Safeguards: Overall safeguard compliance is consistently noted to be satisfactory in project
ISRs. Early in the project (2008), some issues were noted around medical waste
management, as syringes were disposed in areas accessible by drug users and others. This
was addressed by increased supervision and training of NGOs by NACP.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project paper for the recently approved Bank-financed US$100 million health project
in Afghanistan - System Enhancement for Health Action in Transition (SEHAT) sets out
the health priorities for the country - especially Maternal and Child Health, and expanding
secure provision of a basic package of health services. It explains how Afghanistan’s heavy
reliance on finance from multiple donors, the country’s upcoming political tr ansition and
continuing weak government capacity all support a model of delivering sectoral support for
health. The Bank intends to shift its support from a series of emergency responses - of
which AHAPP was an example - to a flexible and coordinated systems-focused approach.
SEHAT will form a platform for harmonizing support to the health sector from IDA, the
EU and other donors contributing to the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
(ARTF).The strengthening effects of the Bank’s previous health interventions in
Afghanistan, including AHAPP, are also mentioned.

Within SEHAT, several elements built under AHAPP are proposed to be continued, using
the successful modality of contracting NGOs for service delivery - notably, the provision of
services for marginalized populations such as prisoners, and HIV/AIDS prevention services
for targeted population sub-groups who are at an elevated risk for HIV-infection. It is
planned to close the single site delivering OST. SEHAT allocates US$10 million for the
provision of HIV/AIDS targeted interventions and the project results and monitoring
framework includes an indicator for HIV in IDU: “Percentage of IDU reached by Needle
Syringe Program, to be monitored by IBBS, every 2 years?. Details are not given on how
this indicator will be monitored. Although no specific mention is made of further rounds of
IBBS in the project’s support for Integrated Disease Surveillance, it is understood that the
MOPH plans to continue this within the project.

There is no indication of plans to continue support for the advocacy and communications
elements of AHAPP. Particularly, the US$90 million component of SEHAT which will
support stewardship and systems building does not mention specifically work in HIV/AIDS
– despite having a sub-component to strengthen MOPH’s health promotion unit work in
MCH, malnutrition, TB, hygiene promotion and other areas. However the structure of
SEHAT is flexible and the country team would have the capacity to finance such activities
should the utility of these be agreed with the client. Dropping the less useful general
population IEC activities and incorporating those for vulnerable populations in contracts
specific to those groups will be an efficient way to sustain the most effective achievements

                                           12
of AHAPP. The degree to which these other activities previously supported under AHAPP
will be sustained therefore depends on the availability of finance from other donors. From
interviews with GFATM and USA-funded program representatives, it is understood that
their support is likely to be limited to AIDS treatment services and harm reduction. SEHAT
retains the capacity to finance additional interventions, should the GoIRA request this –
although the small scale of the epidemic in Afghanistan makes this improbable.

There are no plans to continue support to the pilot site for OST. The iNGO which had
implemented this facility has ceased its operations. Plans to transition the facility to a local
NGO have been problematic, with no clear national counterpart available to assume
delivery of services. This, coupled with continued opposition from the GoIRA (Ministry of
Counter-narcotics) to the expansion of service beyond 71 enrolled clients, has led to the
decision to close the facility, in a controlled fashion that protects the current clients from
any harm. In summary, SEHAT will continue to support those elements of the AHAPP
which were demonstrably most likely to efficiently deliver HIV outcomes – harm reduction
services for IDU and regular surveillance of HIV in key populations. Additionally, support
will continue for the pioneering and unique work providing health services for prison
inmates. The demise of the only site delivering methadone therapy in Afghanistan is
regrettable, but unavoidable given the intractable political barriers to its expansion, and the
high unit cost of services.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives: At appraisal, the PDO of this project was directly responsive to the global and
country priorities – as articulated in MDG6: to “have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse
the spread of HIV/AIDS? and the Afghanistan National Development Strategy 2006 –
2013: “To have halted and begun the reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS by 2020?. The
project was also relevant to the Bank’s regional strategy of assistance in HIV/AIDS –
projects of a similar overall objective were supported in countries throughout South Asia.

As noted in the Afghanistan Country Program Evaluation undertaken by the Bank’s
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG), Bank assistance during FY02–11 was guided by two
Transitional Support Strategies and two Interim Strategy Notes. At the time of AHAPP
appraisal, the Bank Group’s strategy for Afghanistan was organized around three “pillars?:
     Building the capacity of the state and its accountability to its citizens
     Promoting growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihoods
     Supporting growth of the formal private sector, including through infrastructure
        development.
The IEG report notes the investments to address HIV/AIDS (contracting NGOs to provide
harm-reduction services) as being appropriate components of this capacity building
approach (Pillar One). A major review of the health program (Belay 2010) places the sector
in its macroeconomic context. Afghanistan’s first National HIV and AIDS Policy (2012)
clearly articulates the importance of focusing on populations at highest risk – closely
consistent with the objectives of AHAPP.

                                             13
Design: The aim of providing world class HIV prevention services to marginalized,
vulnerable populations in Afghanistan was excellent from several perspectives - being
human rights affirming, efficient and pro-poor. At the time AHAPP was approved, the
greatly increased efficiency of focusing investments on populations at risk in concentrated
HIV epidemics was becoming apparent. Evidence of the effectiveness of targeted
interventions in populations at risk – for example opioid substitution therapy for IDU - was
also maturing. The project focus, therefore, was cutting edge and highly appropriate – as
experience in many countries and populations has subsequently borne out. The use of NGO
contracting was based on sound experience in the country, but was nevertheless an
innovative solution to the problems of low capacity and fragile governance. The advantages
of this approach have been examined in detail (Belay 2010), and the new health project
SEHAT will further build on this experience. In the difficult context of Afghanistan since
2007, these project innovations are also directly relevant to the Bank’s policy in more
effective engagement in fragile and conflict-affected situations (see: The World
Development Report 2011: Conflict, Security and Development).

The project design was also very responsive to the limited amount of epidemiological
evidence available to guide project allocations by risk or by geography. It placed an
emphasis on generating these important data, and explicitly tied them to future reviews of
implementation. This had the unintended effect of building delay into project
implementation – as decisions on program allocations awaited the outcome of elaborate
sampling and analysis methods, also subject to lengthy international ethical review because
of their experimental focus. The project’s monitoring component may have been better
designed to emphasize the generation of rapid, serial, program-relevant data – and keeping
the research epidemiology (although of great value) less directly tied to implementation
progress. Also, the effect of advocacy on entrenched opposition to methadone therapy may
have been over-estimated.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project’s development objectives were to slow down the spread of HIV and build up
the national capacity to respond to the epidemic. This would be accomplished by: (a)
behavior change among vulnerable groups at high risk; and (b) improving knowledge of
HIV prevention and reducing stigma related to HIV and AIDS in the general population.

The PDO indicator targets at project end were assessed as follows:

Indicator 1. HIV prevalence in the general population at less than 0.5%. The rate of HIV
in the general population in Afghanistan is currently estimated to be less than 0.1%
(UNAIDS 2011 estimate). Therefore this target was surpassed.

Indicator 2. HIV prevalence amongst high risk groups (IDU and SW) less than 5%:

a) HIV rates in IDU in Kabul, Herat and Mazar-i-Sharif in IBBS 2012 showed no
statistically significant change from IBBS 2009. The RDS-adjusted HIV prevalence rates
from highest to lowest were as follows: Herat (13.3%), Kabul (2.4%), Jalalabad 1% and

                                           14
Mazar 0.3%. The overall HIV prevalence among IDU in all 5 cities was 4.4% (95% CI,
3.3-5.8) in IBBS 2012.

b) HIV rates in SW in IBBS 2012 were 0.0% in Kabul and 0.9% in Herat, with no
statistically significant change from IBBS 2009. Therefore, the target of maintaining
prevalence to less than 5% was achieved under this indicator.

Indicator 3. Percentage of health workers who correctly identify ways of preventing HIV
transmission: This indicator was adopted after the mid-term review, and formalized in the
Results Framework annexed to the restructuring paper June 28, 2010, with the target value
set as 75%. The baseline data were collected at a health facility assessment in December
2011 and measured at 19.3%. At the time of writing this report, the 2013 data were not
available to the ICR.

Indicator 4. Among health workers who have heard of HIV, the percentage who are
willing to care for patients with HIV: This indicator was adopted after the mid-term
review, and formalized in the Results Framework annexed to the restructuring paper June
28, 2010, with the target value set as 80%. The baseline data were collected at a health
facility assessment in December 2011 and measured at 24.4%. At the time of writing this
report, the 2013 data were not available to the ICR.

Indicator 5. Percentage of SW reporting use of condom with their most recent client: A
target of 50% was provisionally set at project approval, recognizing that this would require
adjustment when the results of the IBBS 2009 survey became available. The IBBS 2009
found a rate of 58%, and the target for the indicator was set at 60% after MTR and project
extension. The IBBS 2012 found a rate of 52.3%, therefore this target was not achieved, as
the rate of reporting condom use was not found to have increased between 2009 and 2012
and was less than the end target. (In IBBS 2012 the indicator is phrased “Condom use at
last sex?).

Indicator 6. Percentage of IDU reporting use of sterile injection equipment at last time of
injection. As for Indicator 5, it was intended to adjust targets when the results of the first
IBBS survey became available. The validity of the IBBS 2009 data on this indicator (a rate
of 95%) was questioned at MTR. Data at project approval had indicated a rate of 45%
might be likely (University of Manitoba, 2007). Therefore an end target of >80% was
chosen. The IBBS 2012 did not assess this indicator as written in the broader IDU
population. Assessment of the indicator was undertaken among the smaller, less
representative sample of IDU in prisons, where the level was found to be 41%. The IBBS
indicator “Used non-sterile injecting equipment at least once in the past 3 months? is used
as a proxy for national data for this indicator, yielding a crude average of 92.9%, well
above the credible baseline figure and exceeding the project target.

Indicator 7. Percentage of IDU reporting use of condom at last time sex: As for
Indicators 5 and 6, it was intended to adjust targets when the results of the first IBBS
survey became available. A target of 20% increase was provisionally set at project
approval. The IBBS 2009 found a rate of 27%, and the target for the indicator was set at

                                            15
>40% after MTR and project extension. The IBBS 2012 found a rate of 23.9% (as a crude
average of reported data). Therefore this target was not achieved as the 2012 IBBS finding
was lower than the target and the baseline values.

The Intermediate Indicator targets at project end were assessed as follows:

Indicator 1. IBBS maintained and expanded to southern and eastern sites of the country:
A baseline of four sites was expanded to six after the MTR agreed to drop Component 4,
subcomponent 2 (the Innovation Initiative) and to divert these resources to expanded
surveillance. Six sites were successfully included in IBBS 2012, a signal achievement in
providing the rigorous national surveillance data across a broad geographic scope, and
including MSM for the first time in Afghanistan. Therefore this target was achieved.

Indicator 2. Number of Drug Users enrolled in OST: This new indicator was adopted at
MTR, after the OST pilot site had been successfully initiated. A target of 200 enrolled
patients was set. By project end only 71 patients (36% of the target) had been enrolled, due
to political constraints outside of the control of the project. Therefore this target was
partially achieved.

Indicator 3. Number of urban centers which have done high risk group mapping: At
baseline, three cities had conducted high risk group mapping and it was aimed to increase
this to more than 33% of urban centers. At MTR, this target was adjusted to four cities –
and a total of six has been completed by the end of the project. Therefore this target was
exceeded.

Indicator 4. Percentage of most at risk populations (e.g., IDU, FSWs, prisoners) reached
by HIV prevention program. A target of IDU: 60%, FSW: 50%, Truckers: 25% and
Prisoners: 80% was set at project approval. The IBBS 2009 found a rate of 0% of HIV
amongst truckers – so this group was dropped from the indicator. The other targets were
adjusted based on the findings of the IBBS 2009 after MTR and project extension. The
target for IDU was increased to 70%, that for SW was decreased to 10% and the target for
prisoners was not changed. The indicator is calculated based on the question in the IBBS
survey “Use of risk reduction service among those corresponding who have heard about
the services?. The IBBS 2012 found a rate of IDU: 90.2% and FSW: 8.3%, but data from
prisoners were not available. Therefore this target was exceeded in the most important
population (IDU), partially achieved in SW and unknown in prisoners.

Indicator 5. Percentage of most at risk populations (e.g. IDU, FSWs, prisoners) who
correctly identify two ways of preventing HIV transmission: A target of IDU: 50%, FSW:
50%, Truckers: 50% and Prisoners: 75% was set at project approval. The IBBS 2009 found
a rate of 0% of HIV amongst truckers – so this group was dropped from the indicator. The
other targets were adjusted based on the findings of the IBBS 2009 after MTR and project
extension. The target for IDU was increased to 75%, that for SW was decreased to 20%
and the target for prisoners was decreased to 30%. The IBBS 2012 found a rate of IDU:
22.1% (down from 71.4% in 2009), FSW: 15.3% (up from 12.8%) and Prisoners: 6.6%



                                            16
(down from 25.4%). Therefore this target was not achieved in the most important
population (IDU), partially achieved in SW and not achieved in prisoners.

Indicator 6. Annual NACP reports and action plans informed by surveillance and
routine monitoring data. By the end of the project implementation, annual NACP reports
and action plans were informed by surveillance and routine monitoring data. Therefore this
target was fully achieved.

Indicator 7. TI sites meeting service quality standards: The initial goal was for each of the
service sites for SW, truckers and prisoners to meet service quality standards, and five of
the six (subsequently six of the seven) for IDU. This was revised after MTR to >75% of
sites meeting standards, with discontinuation of the TI site for truckers. The project
achieved quality standards in 100% of the sites for which data was available. Therefore this
target was exceeded.

Indicator 8. Financial Management reports include physical progress report. By the end
of the project implementation, all financial management reports included a physical
progress report. Therefore this target was fully achieved.

The following PDO Indicator was dropped after MTR:

Indicator 6 (in the original Project Results Framework): Percentage of truckers
reporting use of a condom last time with a sex worker: This indicator was dropped as the
HIV prevalence in truckers was found to be 0% in the IBBS 2009.

The following Intermediate Indicators were dropped after MTR:

Indicator 8 (in the original Project Results Framework): Score on subset of National
Composite Policy Index.

Indicator 9 (in the original Project Results Framework): Percentage of those aged 15-24
who correctly identify ways of preventing HIV transmission: The HIV prevalence in the
general population was modeled as extremely low <0.1% following IBBS 2009.

Indicator 15 (in the original Project Results Framework): Percentage of
contracted/sanctioned implementation units with uninterrupted fund flow and service
delivery: This indicator was designed to monitor component 4, which was restructured.

Linkage between outputs and outcomes:

Coverage: The project was able to exceed coverage targets for access to prevention
services in the most important population, IDU. The IBBS 2012 survey found an average
90.2% coverage, exceeding the project target of 70%. By the closure of the project, 3,479
non-imprisoned IDU had been reached. Access to services was high in those four areas
where TIs were supported by the project (86-99%) but very low (<1%) in Charikar - where
no AHAPP intervention was active. This indicates that one project output (TIs for
preventive services) was strongly linked to one outcome indicator, i.e., IDU access to
                                            17
services. Although international evidence leaves little doubt about the efficacy of the
preventive interventions deployed, there is mixed evidence for impact on the ultimate
outcomes of HIV knowledge, risk behavior and HIV prevalence. The PDO indicators for
condom use in sex workers, and condom use by IDU were not achieved based on the data
available. The comparison of the key behavior variables among IDU in Kabul, Herat and
Mazar-i-Sharif from 2009 to 2012 showed a significant decrease in the proportion of IDU
who had adequate knowledge about HIV prevention in Kabul (p<0.001) and a significant
increase in Mazar-i-Sharif. The critical PDO Indicator 6 of “Percentage of IDU reporting
use of sterile equipment at time of last injection? was not assessed in the IDU population at
large. The figure available for the indicator, of 41%, is drawn from the prison population –
which is heavily biased and does not have access to the range of harm reduction services
available to broader population. However, two findings in the IBBS 2012 survey indicate
that shared needle use was likely quite low in IDU. The results to the questions “Ever
shared non-sterile injecting equipment? and “[Did not use] non-sterile injecting equipment
at least once in the past 3 months?, yielded answers of 0.4-33.2% and 0-24.5%,
respectively across four cities. Due to the consistency of these indicators, it is reasonable to
adopt the latter as a proxy for national data for PDO Indicator 6, and a crude average yields
a rate of 92.9%. This figure is a substantial increase on the most credible baseline data
(45% in 2007) and significantly exceeds the project target. High coverage with services at
these sites is consistent with an HIV prevalence rate remaining below 5%.

National coverage of the IDU population with preventive services under this and other
projects (mainly supported by GFATM) was not at a level that was likely to have
significantly inflected the national trajectory of the HIV epidemic. For example, the MTR
mission identified that of 19,000 estimated IDU nationally 3,250 (17%) had been reached
through existing projects at end 2010. The mission noted that WHO, UNODC UNAIDS
Technical Guidance defined high coverage for Needle Syringe Programs as over 60% IDU
reached. The maximum enrolment at the OST clinic was 70 patients, in an estimated
population of 12,541 IDU in Kabul city. Several factors contributed to this. Firstly, the
population size of IDU in Afghanistan remains highly uncertain – this figure is dependent
on accessing sensitive data concerning drug use in general, and difficult estimates of the
much smaller drug-injecting proportion. As the project progressed, it became clear that the
population size of IDU was much larger than had been initially thought. Secondly, the
project was geographically constrained by security reasons to a limited number of sites –
which prevented easy scale-up in those areas with highest HIV prevalence. Thirdly, despite
the best efforts of the project staff, regulatory and policy barriers proved intractable to
expansion of services at the OST site.

Surveillance data and epidemiological modeling generated by the project helped to clarify
the nature of the Afghanistan epidemic as highly concentrated in IDU. The first round of
IBBS disclosed zero HIV in either transport workers or sex workers. As noted elsewhere,
the general population figure of HIV prevalence was unlikely to have approached the PDO
target 0.5% unless there had been a catastrophic increase in IDU, with significant spread to
other risk groups and bridge populations.




                                             18
Without a counterfactual comparator, it is impossible to judge categorically whether
interventions targeting these groups materially contributed to HIV control in Afghanistan.
However, an examination of other populations and regional countries is instructive. Figure
A, Annex 7 (UNAIDS, 2004) demonstrates the explosive increase in HIV prevalence that
had been seen in many IDU populations in Asia by the time this project was designed.
There was good reason to anticipate a similar increase amongst the IDU of Afghanistan.
The data from neighboring Pakistan (Figure B Annex 7) show steady increases in
populations at risk over the same period as AHAPP implementation (the data from IDU are
on the left). By contrast with these historical and regional examples, Pakistan’s IDU
epidemic has remained static – or indeed has decreased slightly, although not within
statistical significance. This fact requires some explanation. One possibility is simply that
the IBBS data were not reliable, but this seems unlikely given the proficiency of the team
which conducted the analysis and the adequate sampling size and frame. No other large
scale HIV preventive interventions were undertaken in Afghanistan over this period. It is
probable that the broader efforts of the project – the communication, advocacy and
surveillance over five years, as well as the targeted interventions described - had a
controlling effect on a national epidemic that may have otherwise expanded. Other factors
also probably contributed, particularly the unique epidemiology of drug use in Afghanistan,
including the historically low rates of injecting, network structure and the influence of
neighboring epidemics on a mobile population. One study (Todd 2007b) found 76% of
IDU had ever lived outside Afghanistan in the past ten years – a majority in Iran.

This apparently static trend should be interpreted with caution. A serious HIV epidemic
continues amongst IDU in Afghanistan – particularly in Herat (Table 28). The sharp
increase there in prevalence of hepatitis C (another virus transmitted by shared injecting)
underscores the ongoing vulnerability in this population. Stable HIV prevalence might be
also explained by high mortality among IDU - especially during the winter from exposure.
Despite the continuing low prevalence of HIV levels in sex workers, the risk to this
population also remains substantial, and should be carefully monitored.

3.3 Efficiency

An explicit economic evaluation of the project was not undertaken, nor was there any
specific analysis supported under the four project components. In assessing project
efficiency, the following factors should be considered:

a) As described in detail above, the design of the project focusing on interventions in key
populations at risk, was at the forefront of evidence-based AIDS programing and ensured
an increased return on investment by this allocation, compared to projects in which the
general population was addressed. The efficiency gains from using this project design
extended not just to this project, but to those subsequently supported by the Bank and
others which have drawn lessons from its implementation.
b) Some interventions were of high cost, with small returns. The most notable example was
the OST site, which provided services to a maximum of 71 clients and which was closed at
the end of the project. However, it is difficult to assess the true returns of this pilot
intervention – and to fully account for the opportunities lost with its closure. This model

                                            19
service was the only example in Afghanistan of best international practice in preventive
and medical services for IDU. Its implementation drove policy and regulatory dialogue in
the country and, despite its eventual closure, the clinic was a striking demonstration that
provision of OST services to the very poor and marginalized population of IDU in a most
challenging political environment is not only possible, but can be highly effective.
c) The cost-benefit analysis undertaken during project preparation3 was predicated on an
incipient increase in transmission of HIV in the general population that, in the light of
subsequent epidemiological data, does not seem have been inevitable and was not realized.
However, some of the key principles outlined remain relevant, and were borne out by the
experience of implementation:
i) Harm Reduction interventions targeted to the populations at highest risk of HIV are
     efficient, pro-poor and found to be highly effective in a diverse range of international
     experience.
ii) Strengthening HIV surveillance delivered distinct benefits, primarily through increasing
     allocative efficiency by enhanced targeting of harm reduction programs. Several
     dependent processes were identified at approval as necessary for any economic benefits
     to arise. These included proper assignment of qualified personnel, collection of accurate
     data and the production of actionable, disseminated reports. From project experience, to
     this might be added the importance of tailoring surveillance to a design that can be
     implemented in a timely manner, with a focus on producing program-relevant data.
iii) The chief economic benefit of the OST pilot, as with any pilot, arose from the
     externalities of learning-by-doing.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The relevance of the project to the country, the region and to the World Bank’s engagement
with Afghanistan was very high. Of the seven project development objectives indicators,
the two original HIV prevalence goals – in the general population and in key populations -
were achieved (Indicators 1 and 2). The critically important indicator of preventive service
effectiveness - reflecting use of clean injecting equipment in IDU - was surpassed
(Indicator 6). However, two PDO indicators were only partially achieved (Sex workers and
IDU use of condoms – Indicators 5 and 7), and data are not available to assess the
remaining two (Indicators 3 on 4 on Health Workers attitudes to HIV). The causal link
between project activities and the first PDO indicator (population prevalence) was not
logically clear. The decrease in the second PDO indicator (HIV prevalence in IDU) was not
within statistical significance, but there is a logical causal pathway between the
implementation of effective targeted interventions, the documented increase in the
percentage of IDU being served by contracted NGOs, the documented substantial decrease
in risk behavior in IDU (use of non-sterile equipment) and the maintenance of an HIV
prevalence of <5% in this group. Although there are no data on the counterfactual (which
would have been difficult, if not impossible to experimentally establish in Afghanistan at



3
    Technical Annex, July 2007


                                            20
this time), regional epidemics in IDU indicate that an increase in HIV prevalence in those
IDU covered by services was probably averted by project interventions.
Of the Intermediate Outcome Indicators, one was partially achieved (Percentage of most at
risk populations reached by the HIV prevention program). Five were fully achieved or
exceeded, encompassing important national gains in surveillance, policy development and
management capacity. However, the two indicators relating to OST service provision and
impact of prevention services on knowledge were not achieved. Although this pilot was
only one of several interventions, it was a high profile activity of the project, was the focus
of much of the advocacy efforts undertaken and received significant international attention.
The design of the project, which focused on populations at highest risk, was a leading
global example of increasing the efficiency of HIV interventions. However, the high cost of
some interventions for small returns (especially OST), the small impact demonstrated on
HIV prevalence in sex workers and the delays in implementing the IBBS surveys decreased
the project’s efficiency. The revision of the result targets at restructuring may have been
somewhat ambitious, since a number of them were partially achieved.

Therefore, on balance, given the High relevance, Moderate/Substantial efficacy and
Moderate/Substantial efficiency, the overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory. It
should be noted that the “Progress towards achievement of PDO? rating was lowered from
“MS? to “MU? in the last ISR of the project (Report No: ISR8536). The main reason for
this was the delay in receiving the IBBS 2012 survey results, which meant that assessment
of performance under several indicators was not possible by the team. The data in this ICR
report reflect the final version of the IBBS 2012, which became available in April 2013.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty: The greatest impact of this project is potentially from its example as model of HIV
service delivery that accessed vulnerable and marginalized populations, and was
demonstrably more efficient because of this. The efficiency extended along two
dimensions: i) the allocation of resources to populations most affected by HIV, who were
also amongst the poorest in the country; and ii) the choice of interventions that were
evidence-based and effective. AHAPP was also able to institute these services in a highly
challenging country context, characterized by low counterpart capacity, intense security
challenges and social fragmentation.

Gender Aspects: The World Bank’s conceptualization of gender as a development issue is
one that is evolving to greater inclusion of sexual minorities. In this respect, the work done
under the project to characterize the HIV vulnerability of MSM in Afghanistan was
progressive, timely and met an important gap in evidence which other work in the Bank has
recently explored in more detail (Beyrer, 2011a; Kerrigan, 2012).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening




                                             21
NGO Contracting: As outlined above, and as explored in more detail in Belay (2010), the
Emergency Project Paper of SEHAT (2013) and Loevinsohn (2005) the system for use of
private, non-state providers to deliver health services in a situation of low counterpart
capacity built on prior experience and was largely successful under the AHAPP. The
structures for NGO contracting are well established within the MOPH and are an integral
part of the MOPH organogram. AHAPP experience further laid the ground for expansion
of the approach in subsequent Bank engagement with Afghanistan. These projects
demonstrate that contracting of NGOs by government to deliver basic health services can
be successful in improving service coverage in the most difficult of circumstances. This
approach is now widely used in World Bank projects in fragile states.

Policy Environment: Advancing the advocacy and policy dialogue which was supported
under AHAPP faced significant hurdles. The construction of an enabling policy
environment for provision of services for drug users, sex workers and homosexual men is
difficult to progress in any country. In Afghanistan, which faces a range of serious
challenges in health and beyond, the degree to which the project was able to bring these
issues to political attention and gather political support from some key stakeholders was
remarkable. The concrete outcome of these efforts is seen in the policy documents
developed and approved by the government (particularly the National HIV/AIDS Policy
and the Afghanistan National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework 2011-2015) and the harm
reduction services for IDU, which are established and will continue under SEHAT. The
provision of general medical services for prisoners – an enormously progressive and pro-
poor intervention – was another result. It was unfortunate that the first successful
demonstration of OST in Afghanistan was not able to be continued.

NACP: The project built and supported a highly functional NACP within the MOPH,
staffed with experts in the field and supported by an international specialist adviser. As
with all activities in Afghanistan today, the sustainability of this institutional strengthening
is uncertain – as is the case across ministries and projects. The majority of the staff were
consultants hired under the project, rather than regular MOPH staff. NACP will continue
to be supported in this fashion under SEHAT for a period until civil service reform is fully
implemented. The MOPH is engaged with the Capacity Building for Results Facility
(CBR), a separate civil service reform project supported by IDA and ARTF. The aim of
CBR project is to assist performance of line ministries including the MOPH. CBR finances
the recruitment of managerial and professional staff, as civil servants, for key positions and
support targeted training programs. The MOPH is developing a CBR program proposal to
the Ministry of Finance with its service delivery priorities and system development reforms
and related staffing needs including those for the NACP.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Global Knowledge of HIV program efficiency: Since the inception of AHAPP, the
expansion of rigorous population-based surveys and better surveillance generally, led to an
appreciation that all HIV epidemics did not have a southern African scenario as their
natural end point. The data and analysis generated by Johns Hopkins University under this
project improved that understanding. The use of this information by the project to

                                             22
efficiently prioritize activities and monitor success was an early example of the evidence-
based HIV programming which now guides global practice.

Hepatitis C (HCV) and other Blood Borne Viruses: It is worth highlighting the alarmingly
high prevalence of HCV among IDU that was found by the IBBS surveys in all regions of
Afghanistan. The only significant changes that were detected between the 2009 and 2012
IBBS rounds were the increases in HCV sero-prevalence in Herat and Kabul – in the
former of these cities the rate in IDU is now 71%. It is remarkable that the high levels in
other cities are not considerably worse, as the transmission of HCV in IDU populations is
much more efficient than that of HIV. It is probable that the provision of clean injecting
equipment under the project has done something also to blunt HCV spread.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

Country context: Security in Afghanistan is a critical challenge, especially in the southern
and eastern provinces. The large majority of international military forces are expected to
leave Afghanistan by the end of 2014. This poses not only potential additional security
risks, but also the possibility of reduction in donor funding to HIV and health programs.
Any displacement of populations or interruption of the provision of services in this context
will have a negative impact on HIV control.

Epidemiology: In the 2012 IBBS report it is asserted that Afghanistan is in an "early phase"
of the epidemic. This is not epidemiologically accurate. HIV has been in the country
doubtless for many years - it has been slow to spread as expected in vulnerable populations,
in part possibly due to the prevention efforts under this project. Imagining a perennially
early epidemic takes away this important epidemiological conclusion. However, it would
be unwise to assume that HIV will remain at the current level with unchanged (or reduced)
levels of investment in prevention. IDU epidemics characteristically progress to high
prevalence – often with an explosive trajectory which may be delayed. Without ongoing
and expanded interventions for IDU, the risk that HIV prevalence will increase above 5%
in this group is high. A similar risk does not necessarily attach to sex workers – due to the
very low levels of HIV and the plans to carefully continue surveillance in this population.

Political Support: Much of the success of the project hinged on the political support built,
which provided the permissive environment for harm reduction activities for IDU and
health services in prisons. The lack of support for and closure of the OST pilot site
demonstrates that blanket political support for all IDU interventions cannot be taken for
granted, and may change over time. Without the policy and advocacy activities that were
supported under the project, it is possible that support for HIV prevention activities in key
populations may wane, with a negative impact on HIV control.

The likelihood of any of these risks eventuating is moderate to high. The impact on the
PDO objective of slowing down the spread of HIV from any of them would be significant –
as the current epidemic trend is static, and only a small increase in transmission would act
to increase the prevalence level past the PDO indicator level of 5% in IDU.

                                            23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The strategic relevance of an HIV prevention project in Afghanistan was high at the time of
approval. The relevance of this investment in the context of competing health priorities
(especially maternal and child health, and the provision of a Basic Package of Health
Services) might be questioned post hoc; but at the time of approval the focus was clearly
consistent with regional, country and institutional priorities.

The design of the project – to focus on key populations most at risk - was highly
appropriate and efficient, even though the choice of general population prevalence as a
development indicator was not consistent with the focus on key populations. The focus on
generating epidemiological data was a wise priority. This provided critical information to
inform national policy and guide efficient project implementation. However the complexity,
time and expense of the IBBS was under-estimated during project design. This led to
delays in establishing baselines for indicators and delays in project implementation and
review while these important data were awaited. The choice of NGO contracting as a key
mode of service delivery was appropriate and largely successful. The risk assessment was
thorough and consistent with the country context.

In terms of poverty, gender and social development, the design of the project was
exemplary. The targeted populations were amongst the poorest and most socially
marginalized in the country. The inclusion of services for sex workers and MSM as key
populations at risk was extremely progressive at the time, particularly in the social context
of Afghanistan. The team made a calculated risk by inclusion of the OST pilot facility,
recognizing the potentially very high gains from implementation of this approach, despite
understanding the political barriers and difficulties of translating international experience
into locally acceptable, cost-effective services.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

It is important to note that project supervision in Afghanistan was conducted in an
environment with some of the most serious logistical and security challenges facing any
Bank operation. Nevertheless the team managed consistent, professional and high quality
supervision over the five years of the project. The absence of data points for many of the
key performance indicators during the first years of the project, then the availability of only
one point until the second round IBBS data were available (four months after the closure of
the project) meant that supervision was inevitably focused more on process than on
development impact. This was compounded by the delays faced in NGO contracting and
slow recruitment and difficulties in retaining staff at NACP. Once the critical IBBS 2009
data were available, the team conducted an MTR mission which was highly responsive to
the evidence, focused activities and thoroughly revised the results framework. This

                                             24
significantly improved project efficiency. There were five TTLs during the term of project
supervision, a turn over not unique considering the difficulty in retaining staff working in
fragile and conflict states; however there was substantial continuity provided by in-country
team members.

The project ISRs and the MTR report were of extremely high quality, with a candid and
solution-focused assessment of all aspects of project implementation. The team’s efforts in
progressing this challenging project were consistently recognized by management. The
Progress towards PDO ratings were assessed as Satisfactory from 2010 until 2012, when
this was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory (June) and then Moderately Unsatisfactory
in the final ISR (November). The main reasons for this were the delayed receipt of the IBB
2012 report until after the last ISR, and the difficult progress with methadone importation
for the OST pilot site. The supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects was appropriate
in dealing with the minor issues which arose.

The post-closure continuity of supported activities was carefully managed by the project
team, especially the selection of those which would be supported under the new health
project SEHAT. This selection was managed by the Bank in close consultation with the
GoIRA and other development partners. It is unfortunate that the OST services were not
able to be continued once the contract of the iNGO delivering these had ended. In the
absence of clear political support for continuation or expansion of the pilot, this was an
unavoidable decision. The cessation of clinical services will be managed in a controlled
manner to minimize any harm to patients enrolled in the program.

Improved understanding of the epidemic (much of it derived from analytic work supported
by the project) revealed that the epidemic was confined almost exclusively to the IDU
population. Reconsideration of the PDO indicator on general population HIV level at the
time of MTR might have better reflected the focus of the project. However, as previously
noted, this indicator was also selected for its mandate as part of Afghanistan’s national
development strategy.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

With hindsight, there were moderate shortcomings in preparation of the project,
particularly in the selection of the PDO indicators, and in the design of the surveillance
component. There were minor shortcomings in the proactive identification of opportunities
and resolution of issues during project supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The GoIRA had a strong commitment to the objective of controlling HIV in populations at
risk - evinced from project preparation through to closure. This was reflected in the high-
level political attention which HIV prevention enjoyed (including discussion in the national

                                           25
parliament) and the policy documents developed and endorsed – resulting in the adoption
of the Afghanistan HIV Code of Ethics, an important institutional protection for people
living with HIV in Afghanistan.

However, despite the development of an OST policy that was approved and endorsed by
the Minister of Public Health, and the development of a significant and important
relationship between NACP and the Ministry of Counter Narcotics, it was not possible
during the project to implement the OST pilot to the full quota of patients – mainly due to
difficulties in negotiating the approval and importation of methadone. This political barrier
proved intractable, despite consistent efforts by the MOPH, the Bank and other
development partners to present evidence of the efficiency and effectiveness of the OST
approach. An important part of this advocacy effort was the OST pilot itself, which
demonstrated highly successful implementation in the Afghanistan context and which was
assessed very favorably by several independent reviews. The Government’s opposition to
methadone importation and use was a significant barrier to exploration and expansion of
what was planned to be a key intervention under the project.

The GoIRA has worked closely with the Bank team, and in consultation with other
development partners, to ensure adequacy of the transition arrangements for supported
activities which will continue under the new health project SEHAT.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementing agency (NACP) was housed at the MOPH. Alongside the coordination
and management of AHAPP, the NACP was the principal recipient for HIV activities
funded under GFATM – resulting in close coordination between these two sources of
finance. Several challenges were faced by the NACP during the initial stages of project
implementation. The NACP had difficulties in establishing and maintaining input from the
target groups themselves. IDU and sex workers were particularly challenging for the NACP
to work with, due to stigma against these groups and the illegality of risk behaviors. It was
difficult for NACP to find and engage community leaders from these groups who were able
to participate in meetings and events.

Low capacity in the MOPH, poor security and timing of the presidential elections slowed
initial project implementation. As noted in supervision missions, six months after
effectiveness of the project, the key issues experienced were a) Relocation of the NACP to
a remote and ill equipped premises, b) High number of vacancies in key staff positions –
particularly technical specialist, c) Procurement – especially delays and technical issues
with tender processes and contract negotiations, d) Delayed payments to contracted NGOs
and e) Lack of some essential Financial Management capacities. However, the majority of
these issues were resolved in a timely manner, including fiduciary issues, and subsequent to
the MTR it is noted that the project’s efforts in institutional capacity building had resulted
in improvements in the standard and timing of each of these functions.




                                            26
The delays experienced with implementing surveillance were most significant both because
they were prolonged and because so much of the project monitoring and revised
programming depended upon the data to be generated. Although this is due in part to the
ambitious scope of the surveys undertaken, it was probably exacerbated by conflicting
expectations between the contractor and the implementing agency. As had been noted
during project preparation, the surveillance activities supported were envisaged to be
owned by and readily available to the NACP, routine and not subject to research review
processes. The contractor clearly felt that their priority in the exercise was the highest
possible quality epidemiological research, safeguarded by thorough independent review.
The capacity of NACP to counterbalance the ambitions of the “global experts? and to
manage this international institution was understandably limited.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory, Implementing Agency
performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory. The overall rating is Moderately
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

a) Preparation and effective implementation of an HIV/AIDS project in Afghanistan
demonstrated that innovative programming is possible even in situations of extreme
fragility and low counterpart capacity. Neither these circumstances, nor a challenging
social context, should pose a barrier to the implementation of projects delivering
interventions to marginalized populations at high risk from HIV.
b) The use of NGO contracting for service delivery, although challenged by delays in
defining and implementing a selection process in a limited field of potential candidates,
built on solid experience in this innovative approach and helped form the model for future
projects. It provided a flexible means to supplement and build capacity in the implementing
partner, and to accelerate the provision of services. The lessons learned in contracting
NGOs from this and previous projects are exemplified in the design of SEHAT, as
described in the Emergency Project Paper (February, 2013). In brief, this includes:
          Strengthening of the capacity of implementing agency to procure, monitor and
             manage the contracts of NGOs delivering services
          Ensuring adequate coverage of Health Management Information Systems,
             supplemented by verification and by independent third party assessments, to
             assess NGO performance
          The institution of quarterly implementation progress workshops with the
             participation of all implementers to review progress, identify implementation
             bottlenecks and prepare action plans.
c) The efficiency of HIV prevention programs is greatly enhanced by the generation of
epidemiological data to guide allocations to those populations and regions at greatest risk.
However, surveillance components supported by the project should have a primary purpose
to guide government policy and project focus. Implementation progress should not be made
contingent on the results of research-focused activities.

                                           27
d) The effectiveness of HIV prevention programs depends on technical strength of
evidence-based interventions, adequate coverage of target populations with services and a
permissive legal and policy framework. Each of these should be rigorously assessed during
preparation as each critically and independently influences program impact.
e) The World Bank has been a global leader in providing services to vulnerable and
marginalized populations in the HIV epidemic. The ethical propriety of this project – which
provided services for some of the most poor and disenfranchised people in Afghanistan,
should be highlighted and commended.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 5 for the Borrower ICR and official Government comments on the ICR.

(b) Co-financiers
There were no co-financiers of this project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None.




                                               28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                     Latest Estimate
                                    Appraisal
                                                        including       Percentage of
        Components                Estimate (USD
                                                   contingencies (USD    Appraisal
                                     millions)
                                                         millions)
Communication and
                                         1.06               1.06            84%
Advocacy
Strengthening HIV
                                         1.61               1.53            85%
Surveillance
Targeted Interventions                   4.06               5.73           117%
Program management,
capacity building and                    1.80               1.60            81%
monitoring and evaluation
         Total Baseline Cost             8.53
Physical contingencies                   1.00
Price contingencies                      0.47
            Total Project Costs         10.00               9.92           99.2%

(b) Financing
                                    Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage of
      Source of Funds               Estimate            Estimate
                                                                         Appraisal
                                  (USD millions)     (USD millions)
Borrower                               0.00               0.00              0.00
IDA Grant                             10.00               9.92             99.2%




                                             29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Communications and Advocacy (US$1.06 million – total actual costs)

This component was intended to strengthen the advocacy and communication capacity of
the NACP to create a policy environment that enabled scaling up of targeted
interventions (TIs) for vulnerable populations at high risk, and reduced stigma and
discrimination related to high risk behaviors. Specifically, informed advocacy among
policymakers and opinion leaders was aimed to reduce stigma and harassment of
vulnerable populations and have leaders: (a) appreciate the threat of HIV to Afghanistan;
(b) better understand the actions that could prevent a full-blown HIV epidemic; (c)
become effective sources of information for the rest of the community; (d) take actions
themselves to assist their communities to avoid HIV; and (e) provide continuous support
for the AIDS control program. It was agreed that a national policy statement would be in
place at the start of the project and a substitution treatment policy for IDU would be
developed. The component included the following activities:
    1) Communications activities were intended to increase access to information and
        appropriate knowledge of HIV prevention and other related health issues for
        vulnerable groups at high risk, including sex workers and their clients, truckers,
        and youth in areas covered by the project.
    2) Behavior change interventions were intended to include a focus on the use of
        clean needles and syringes, and on condom use among IDU and their partners; on
        consistent condom use among sex workers and their clients; and, on appropriate
        knowledge about HIV transmission and ways of preventing it among all
        vulnerable populations at risk.
    3) Advocacy activities were intended to include (a) target audience research; (b)
        development of an advocacy strategy; (c) development of core training and
        information packages for use by service providers; (d) specific communication
        training for NGO service providers and others; (e) gender- and culturally-
        appropriate communication media targeting vulnerable persons at risk; (f)
        audience surveys; and (g) reporting.

To ensure a coherent approach and complementarity of activities, one organization was to
be contracted to develop the plan and implement all elements of the communication and
advocacy component under the coordination and guidance of the NACP.

Component 2: Strengthening of HIV Surveillance (US$1.53 million – total actual
costs)

This component was intended to build the evidence base for HIV and AIDS planning and
help monitor the effectiveness of the program. It planned to build the NACP’s capacity to
track the magnitude and trajectory of the HIV epidemic in Afghanistan through the
development of second generation surveillance (SGS) system. (This included separate
mapping and size estimation of at risk populations, collection of biological data from
representative samples of the populations, and tracking the behaviors that contribute the
most to HIV transmission dynamics). The data collected through surveillance was

                                           30
intended to provide the basis for future resource allocation and program management
decisions. All the SGS data were, therefore, to be “owned by, and readily available to,
the NACP, and generated on an intermittent or routine basis, and not subject to the same
internal review processes put in place for research and special studies? 4 .
Epidemiologically relevant data in Afghanistan were scarce at the time of appraisal;
however some recent studies of at risk populations were chosen to refine the selection of
survey groups and locations for the baseline round of the surveillance activities.

The surveillance activities were to be implemented by an organization selected through
international competitive bidding. This organization would work with the NACP, guided
by an HIV Surveillance Working Group, to train its staff to conduct surveillance, obtain
all necessary test kits and other materials, provide timely reports, and disseminate
findings. The terms of reference (TOR) for surveillance included a) size estimation of at-
risk populations in urban centers; (b) integrated biological and behavioral surveys (IBBS)
of IDU, female sex worker (FSW), prisoners, and truckers conducted twice during the
Program Implementation Plan period; (c) two rounds of knowledge, attitudes and belief
(KAB) surveys of mainstream opinion leaders to assess the effectiveness of the advocacy
and communication component and (d) annual data synthesis and epidemic modeling of
available surveillance and other data to project the impact of the epidemic on the overall
country scenario. Due to the importance of obtaining baseline measures for the core
program indicators in order to measure project results, the data collection activity for the
IBBS of IDU, SWs, and prisoners was to be completed within the first 6-9 months of the
project.

Component 3: Targeted Interventions for High Risk Behaviors (US$5.73 million –
total actual costs)

This component was meant to support TIs to prevent further spread of HIV among
vulnerable groups at highest risk, promoting safe practices and reducing risky ones. The
targeted intervention for HIV prevention among IDU was intended to provide a
comprehensive harm reduction package, including needle and syringe exchange, peer
counseling and education, and condom promotion, delivered at drop in centers and
through other outreach services. The services were to be delivered where HIV
transmission was most likely to occur, based on mapping of high risk populations and
sero prevalence survey data, with flexibility to expand to new sites as they were
identified. Proposals were to be invited from NGOs for work with identified groups, such
as IDU and their partners, sex workers and their clients, and others as appropriate in
selected sites starting with the major urban areas. In Kabul, due to the estimated size and
spread of mainly street-based IDU, there were to be three contracts covering different
parts of the city and surrounding areas, while in the other three cities with surrounding
areas (Herat, Jalalabad and Mazar) there would be one contract for each area. NGOs were
to provide the services under an MOPH contract.



4
    Technical Annex July 5, 2007


                                            31
The TOR for targeted interventions for IDU, sex workers and their clients, truckers and
prisoners included (a) gathering of baseline data to estimate the size of the populations to
be covered; (b) establishment and operation of appropriate services such as, in the case of
HIV prevention among IDU, drop in centers (DIC), social support, needle and syringe
exchange, OST (in one package in Kabul and among prisoners), condom distribution,
sexually transmitted infections (STI) care, other medical support, and Voluntary
Counseling and Testing (VCT); and (c) reporting. The contracts for IDU were to target
groups in four cities and their surrounding areas with flexibility to expand to new sites
each following year. An ethnographic study was to be conducted to learn more about
MSM networks and how to design appropriate strategies for reaching men who have sex
with men (MSM) with HIV prevention interventions.

Component 4: Program Management, Capacity Building, Monitoring and
Innovation Activities (US$1.60 million – total actual costs)

This component was intended to strengthen the core functions of the national HIV/AIDS
prevention program, including program management, capacity development, and
monitoring by NACP, and the multi sector HIV oversight of the HIV/AIDS Coordinating
Committee of Afghanistan (HACCA). This component was also intended to provide
funding of innovative approaches – an “Innovation Initiative? for mainstreaming of the
national multisector HIV response. Membership of HACCA was to be extensive and
include NGOs and civil society representatives as well as ministries. Capacity building
activities in this component would facilitate learning and include exposure visits, short
term TA, training, including training of health services providers, and conferences
leading up to policy development and review. The NACP was to be supported through
six national advisors, the program manager, and an international advisor – two of the
national advisors would provide support in financing and procurement.

This component was also to support the development of routine monitoring and service
quality assessment, closely aligned with the existing monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
and health management information systems (HMIS) of the MOPH, and including an
action plan, timeline, and assigned responsibilities to the M&E advisor and other NACP
staff. Standardized, routine monitoring indicators and formats were to be developed for
each program area. The principles and operations of routine monitoring for NACP were
intended to be consistent with established practices of the larger MOPH M&E and HMIS
system for Basic Package of Health Services/Emergency Project Health Services
facilities.

Outputs of the Component:                                Costs Projected     Actual Costs
                                                         at approval         (USD):
                                                         (USD):
Component One – Communications and Advocacy
   Target audience research                             $1,263,200          $1,063,200
   Gender and culturally appropriate communication
     media targeting vulnerable persons at risk
   Audience surveys

                                            32
      Development of an advocacy strategy and
       activities
    Development of core training and information
       packages for target audiences for use by service
       providers
    Specific communication training for NGO service
       providers, journalists, private practitioners and
       others
Component Two – Strengthening of HIV Surveillance
    Mapping and size estimation of at risk populations       $1,799,700   $1,532,171
       in urban areas
    Implementation of two rounds of Integrated
       Biological and Behavioral Surveillance (IBBS)
       surveys among PWIDs, FSWs, prisoners, and
       truck drivers
    Two rounds of Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice
       (KAP) surveys among policy makers and their
       influencers.
    Annual data synthesis and epidemic modeling of
       available surveillance and other data to project the
       impact of the epidemic on the country scenario.
    Rapid assessment of PWIDs in Western provinces
       of Afghanistan
Component Three – Targeted Interventions for High
Risk Behaviors
    Regular IDU serviced: 3,479                              $4,939,700   $5,725,579
    Distribution of Safe-Injecting kits: 3,351,348 units
    Collection of used needles and syringes:
       3,170,396 units
    Opioid Substitution therapy (at one site): 70
       patients enrolled
    VCT for HIV: 13,896 tests
    Hepatitis C/B and Syphilis testing: 33,516 tests
    Condoms distributed: 1,034,984

Other services provided – not quantified
    Syndromic management of STIs
    Abscess management
    Overdose management
    Referral for TB services
    Referral to ARV center for HIV+ clients
    Referral for drug detoxification and abstinence
        based treatment
    Primary health check ups
    Hygiene kits
    IEC
    Social services
Component Four – Program Management, Capacity
Building, Monitoring and Innovation Activities

                                               33
   Staff positions at NACP: number local? An         $1,977,400   1,601,000
    international HIV advisor since April 2012
   NACP coordination mechanisms developed at
    different levels
   HIV technical groups convened on regular basis:
    surveillance, monitoring and evaluation.
   Development of new HIV testing and counseling
    guidelines
   Development of National HIV/AIDS policy
   Management of national HIV/AIDS prevention
    program
   Oversight and support of HIV/AIDS Coordinating
    Committee of Afghanistan (HACCA)
   Assessments conducted:
        o 1) Assessment of the Islamic Republic of
             Afghanistan HIV & AIDS Prevention
             Programme (2010)
        o 2) Assessment of OST pilot – Johns
             Hopkins University (2011)




                                        34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An explicit economic evaluation of the project was not undertaken, nor was there any
specific analysis supported under the four project components. The cost-benefit analysis
undertaken during project preparation 5 was predicated on an incipient increase in
transmission of HIV in the general population that was not realized.

See a further consideration of this in the main ICR text (3.3 Efficiency, Page 24).




5
    Technical Annex, July 2007


                                            35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
              Names                                Title                 Unit
 Silvia M. Albert                 Temporary                             WBITI
 Mariam Claeson                   Program Coordinator                   SASHN
 Deepal Fernando                  Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSO2
 Phoebe M. Folger                 Operations Officer                    SASHN
 Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan   Senior PHN Specialist                 SASHN
 Palwasha Lena Kakar              Consultant                            SASDI
 Hasib Karimzada                  Program Assistant                     SASHD
 Laura M. Kiang                   Consultant                            SASED
 Benjamin P. Loevinsohn           Lead Public Health Specialist         AFTHW
 Kenneth O. Okpara                Sr. Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
 Mohammad Arif Rasuli             Senior Environmental Specialist       SASDI
 Ghulam Dastagir Sayed            Senior Health Specialist              SASHN
 Rahimullah Wardak                Procurement Specialist                SARPS
 Alexander David Wodak            Consultant                            SASHD
Supervision/ICR
 Muhammad Wali Ahmadzai           Financial Management Analyst          SARFM
 Silvia M. Albert                 Temporary                             WBITI
 Abdul Mohammad Durani            Social Development Specialist         SASDS
 Emanuale Capabianco              Senior Health Specialist              SASHN
 Deepal Fernando                  Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSO2
 Celine Ferre                     Consultant                            SASSP
Mohammad Tawab Hashemi            Health Specialist                     SASHN
 Hasib Karimzada                  Program Assistant                     SASHD
 Laura M. Kiang                   Consultant                            SASED
 Cornelis P. Kostermans           Lead Public Health Specialist         SASHN
 Asha Narayan                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
 Homira G. Nassery                Operations Officer                    HDNHE
 Mohammad Yasin Noori             Social Development Specialist         SASDS
 Robert Oelrichs                  Senior Health Specialist              HDNHE
 Kenneth O. Okpara                Sr. Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
 Asif Qurishi                     Team Assistant                        SASHD
 Mohammad Arif Rasuli             Senior Environmental Specialist       SASDI
 Ghulam Dastagir Sayed            Senior Health Specialist              SASHN
 Rahimullah Wardak                Procurement Specialist                SARPS
 David Wilson                     Program Director                      HDNVP
 Debrework Zewdie                 Director                              HDNHE




                                             36
(b) Staff Time and Cost (PE-P101502-LEN-BB and PE-P101502-SPN-BB)
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY07                                        58.71                 114,892.77
   FY08                                         3.39                     343.58
                            Total:             62.10                 115,236.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                          0                          0
  FY08                                         40.08                  56,579.44
  FY09                                         35.12                  39,580.19
  FY10                                         29.50                  64,617.74
  FY11                                         30.53                  25,757.66
  FY12                                         30.72                  11,604.74
  FY13                                         13.53                  10,379.15
                            Total:           179.48                  208,518.92




                                            37
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                  Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
                      Ministry of Public Health
                     DG of Preventive Medicine
               Communicable Disease Control Directorate
                  National AIDS Control Program




            Implementation Completion and Result Report
              Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project




                        Prepared by NACP
                           March, 2013




                               38
List of acronyms
AHAPP              Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
AIDS               Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
FSWs               Female Sex Workers
GCMU               Grants and Contract Management Unit
HACCA              HIV/AIDS Coordinating Committee of Afghanistan
HIV                Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBBS               Integrated Biological and Behavioral Surveillance
ICR                Implementation Completion and Result
INGOs              International Non-Governmental Organizations
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
NGOs               Non-Governmental Organizations
PWIDs              People Who Inject Drugs
SGS                Second Generation Survey
TI                 Targeted Interventions
WB                 World Bank




                                    39
Introduction
Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Program (AHAPP) commenced in 2007 as a World
Bank (WB) grant with a total of 10 million USD to support the Government of
Afghanistan’s response to HIV epidemic. It was designed to strengthen the national
capacity by scaling up prevention programs targeting populations at higher risk of HIV
infection including People Who Inject Drugs (PWIDs), Female Sex Workers (FSWs),
truck drivers and prisoners. In addition, AHAPP also aimed at strengthening the capacity
of the National AIDS Control Program (NACP) in areas like advocacy and
communication, HIV surveillance and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). AHAPP was
initially designed for 33 months starting July 2007 through March 2010 with an overall
objective to slow down the spread of HIV and build up the national capacity to respond to
the epidemic through (i) targeted interventions for Key Affected Populations (KAPs) and
(ii) Improving knowledge of HIV prevention and reducing stigma related to HIV in the
general population. The following were the project’s components to achieve the stated
objective:
Component 1: Communications & Advocacy
Component 2: Strengthening of HIV Surveillance
Component 3: Targeted Interventions for High Risk Behaviours
Component 4: Programme Management, Capacity Building, Monitoring & Innovation
activities

This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by NACP, in response to
the requirement by the WB, as an evaluation on the project’s execution, its cost and the
benefits derived from it.
    I.     Basic information
This section includes basic information about:
    A. The country and project name (title and ID):
        Project: P101502 -Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project

   B. Donor: World Bank IDA
   C. Original total commitment (USD) and disbursed amount: Original total
      commitment 10,000,000 USD Disbursed USD 9,917,127.95
   D. Key dates:
       Grant agreement: July 2007
       Original contracts: 12 contracts started from 2008 till February 2011
       Revised contracts: 9 contracts from February 2011 till June 2012.

   II.     Project objectives, description and results framework
This section includes information about objectives, targets and indicators of the project:
   A. Objectives (general and specific) of the project:

The project’s development objectives are to slow down the spread of HIV and build
up the national capacity to respond to the epidemic. This will be accomplished by (i)
Targeted Interventions for most at risk populations (MARPs), and (ii) Improving


                                            40
knowledge of HIV prevention and reducing stigma related to HIV in the general
population.

The key performance indicators that will be used to track the project development
objectives are:
           o The percent of injecting drug users who have adopted behaviors that
              reduce transmission of HIV, that is, who use clean injecting equipment at
              last time injecting

           o The percent of sex workers who report using a condom with their most
             recent client
           o The percent of young people aged 15-24, in areas covered by the project,
             who correctly identify ways of preventing HIV transmission.

In order to achieve the overall objective of the project, AHAPP was designed to operate
through four component areas described in the following section:
    B. Components (project areas):
            1) Advocacy and communication
                To facilitate an effective and smooth implementation of HIV-related
                activities by creating an enabling environment to scale up targeted
                interventions to populations at higher risk of HIV as well as to reduce the
                level of stigma and discrimination around HIV and key affected
                populations. The following were the activities proposed for this
                component:
       Target            audience  Gender- and culturally  Audience surveys
          research                        appropriate
                                          communication       media
                                          targeting       vulnerable
                                          persons at risk
       Development of an  Development of core  Specific
          advocacy strategy and           training and information       communication
          activities          (e.g.       packages      for   target     training for NGO
          meetings, training, and         audiences for use by           service providers,
          dissemination          of       service providers              journalists, private
          advocacy packages)                                             practitioners and
                                                                         others
       Reporting
            2) Strengthening of HIV surveillance
                This component was designed with the purpose to make HIV biological
                and behavioral data available through the development of second
                generation surveillance (SGS) system in order to monitor HIV epidemic
                profile in Afghanistan. The terms of reference for surveillance include:
                      Desk review of available information about location and size
                         estimation of risk population,


                                             41
                       Mapping and size estimation of at risk populations in urban
                        centers (up to 8 sites every second year or twice during the
                        duration of the project),
                     Design/implement two rounds of Integrated Biological and
                        Behavioral Surveillance (IBBS) surveys among PWIDs, FSWs,
                        prisoners, and truck drivers
                     Conduct two rounds of Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice (KAP)
                        surveys among policy makers and their influencers.
                     Annual data synthesis and epidemic modeling of available
                        surveillance and other data to project the impact of the epidemic
                        on the country scenario.
           3) Targeted interventions (TIs)
               Interventions were directed to populations at higher risk of HIV infection
               (PWIDs, SWs, truckers) comprised of harm reduction package6. In some
               of the TIs, particularly for prison services, a component of operations
               research has been included. In light with the conventional harm reduction
               package, MoPH/NACP has defined a list of services to be included in TIs
               that takes into account the country context (annex 3). These services were
               provided to target populations through outreach teams and at drop-in-
               centers.
           4) Program management and capacity building:
               This component was designed to strengthen the core technical and
               managerial functions of the NACP and the multi-sector oversight of
               HIV/AIDS Coordinating Committee of Afghanistan (HACCA) through
               development of routine monitoring and service quality assessment.
               In addition, this component included the innovation initiative for multi
               sector mainstreaming to enable other line ministries, NGOs, and the
               private . However, this component was cancelled due to long
               governmental procurement process.
     C. Project’s results framework (annex 1):

   III.    Implementation
This section includes information implementing agencies, technical and financial
management:

     A. Technical, financial, and procurement management of AHAPP

The overall project management was coordinated by a multi-sector review panel led by
NACP and including HACCA and Grants and Contract Management Unit (GCMU).



6
    WHO/UNODC IDU target guide (2009).


                                           42
NACP was playing the leadership role in managing AHAPP through its coordination with
other MOPH departments, and other key-non-health sectors. NACP is staffed with a
number of qualified national officers and consultants in areas like advocacy and
communication, targeted interventions, surveillance, and monitoring and evaluation. In
addition, NACP is capacitated with an international advisor. Through its various HIV-
technical working groups (e.g. surveillance, M&E, targeted interventions), NACP was
providing the technical support to the implementing partners through regular technical
committees in different HIV areas. HACCA has been established by MOPH as a
multisector committee and playing a critical role in ensuring a broad-based and inclusive
oversight mechanism to HIV programming in the country. GCMU is the MOPH
department that is responsible for overall financial and procurement management of
AHAPP in coordination with other involved line ministries e.g. Ministry of Finance. To
strengthen its capacity, GCMU was, additionally, staffed with qualified and experienced
procurement specialist and accountant.

   B. Target populations, implementing agencies and provinces:

Populations at higher risk of HIV infection were targeted by AHAPP interventions. They
are PWIDs, SWs, prisoners, and truck drivers. AHAPP was operating in four cities
(Kabul, Mazar-i-Sharif, Hirat, and Jalalabad) and activities under AHAPP contracts were
implemented by nine NGOs; fiver local NGOs andfour INGOs. Please refer to annex 2
for details.

    IV.     Results framework analysis
This section includes assessment of outcome indicators of the project as well as the
performance/output indicators:
    1) Advocacy and communication
        This component was implemented by Futures Group in partnership with NACP
        over 30 months (July 15, 2008 – January 15, 2011). Activities were implemented
        as per the proposed plan and outcomes for this component were achieved
        (detailed reports are available upon request).
    2) Strengthening surveillance
         Two rounds of IBBS were conducted during the life time of AHAPP. Results
            show signs of concentrated HIV epidemic among PWIDs in Hirat province.
            The first round was conducted among four target populations in three cities
            and the second round was designed to cover five target populations across five
            locations in the country.
         Two rounds of KAP surveys among policy makers and their influencers were
            completed during the three years of AHAPP projects. Findings, conclusion,
            and recommendations were recently presented to CGHN /MoPH for further
            programing of HIV interventions in the country (full reports are available
            upon request)
         As per the epidemic modeling to estimate the HIV prevalence among general
            population, IBBS data were not sufficient to conduct such a modeling.

                                           43
           However, Data from two rounds of IBBS represent a strong evidence to
           describe the HIV pattern among populations at higher risk of HIV and can be
           used as a tool to report on progress indicators e.g. UNGASS.
          Rapid assessment of PWIDs in Western provinces of Afghanistan was also
           conducted and provided a detailed picture of this key affected population in
           terms of HIV epidemic profile and needed/recommended interventions to be
           considered in future HR planning.

N.B. the end of project report summarizing the achievement done so far in this
component is yet to be received by the implementing agency (Johns Hopkins University).

   3) Targeted interventions
      These interventions were amongst the most successful HIV prevention programs
      in the country with standardized protocols and data collection tools.
      The following progress through target intervention implementation.
Condom and NSP distribution among PWIDs through six Targeted Interventions 2008-
2012
Contract/location             Total Regular NSP          NSP        % of NSP         Condom
2008-2012                     Users IDUs    distribution collection collection       distributed
Con 3 & 4 Kabul city           1564     989      855,424   814,523      95%              302609
Con 5 Kabul city                541     460      628,781   633,288     101%              119357
Con 6 Mazar-e-sharif city       613     449      367,667   368,464     100%              252043
Con 7 Herat city               1109    1039    1,039,822   967,614      93%              225247
Con 8 Jalalabad city            352     327      330,095   265,812      81%              107889
Con 10 Pul-e-charkhi Prison     166     144       -               -                          162
Con 23 OST Kabul city            93      71      129,559   120,695      93%                27677
Total                         4438     3479     3351348 3170396         95%             1034984

Prevalence of HIV, HBV, HCV and Syphilis among PWIDs in the six Targeted
Interventions
Contract/location             HIV    HIV +     HBs    HBs +   HCV      HCV    Syphilis    Syphilis
2008-2012                     tested           tested         tested   +      tested      +
Con 3 & 4 Kabul city           3432   53        3482   216     3470     634     3122        136
Con 5 Kabul city               1059   10        1059   53      1059     135     1049        18
Con 6 Mazar-e-sharif city      1141   14        1139   33      1138     102     1139        43
Con 7 Heart city               3770   41        1805   45      1717     411     1322         8
Con 8 Jalalabad city           684    18        797    49       787      74      662        44
Con 10 Pul-e-charkhi Prison    2407   10        2329   133     2310     139     1729        51
Con 23 OST Kabul city         1403     18      1403    63     1396      171    1396         32
Total                         13896    164     12014   592    11877    1666    10419        332

       The following progress was made against the pre-set target indicators of AHAPP
     Indicator                    Baseline        Mid project End of project Remarks

                                          44
                                                      progress         progress
1   HIV prevalence in general         <0.5%                            ?               No
    population                                                                         intervention
                                                                                       was able to
                                                                                       measure this
                                                                                       indicator
2    HIV prevalence among high        <=5%            (sample          (population
    risk groups (IDU , SW)                            estimate)        estimate)
                                                      IDU=7.1%         IDU=4.4%
                                                      Prisoner=1.6%    Prisoner=0.7%
                                                      FSW=0%           FSW=0.3%
                                                      MSM=NA           MSM=0.4%
                                                      RTW=0%           RTW=0%
3   Percentage of IDUs reporting      30 % age        69 %             90.0%           Sterile
    use of sterile injection          point                                            injecting
    equipment at last time injected   increase                                         equipment
                                                                                       at least once
                                                                                       in the past 3
                                                                                       months
4   Percentage of IDUs reporting      20 % age        26.8%            23.9%
    use of condom at last time sex    point
                                      increase
5   Percentage of SW reporting        50%             58.1%            52.3%           Condom use
    use of a condom with their                                                         at last sex
    most recent client
6    Percentage of truckers           20 % age        24.6%            12%
    reporting use of a condom last    point           Ever      used   Used condom
    time with sex worker              increase        condom last      last time you
                                                      time had sex     had sex with
                                                                       FSW
7   Percentage of prisoners who       20 % age                                         NSP is not yet
    report access to sterile          point                                            implemented
    injecting equipment.              increase                                         in prisons
8   Score on subset of National                                                        Not available
    Composite Policy Index
    (UNGASS)**
9    Percentage of those aged 15-     NA              NA               17.7%           AMICS: the
    24 who correctly identify ways                                                     indicator was
    of preventing HIV transmission                                                     measured
    – measured in geographic                                                           only among
    areas specific to program.
                                                                                       women aged
                                                                                       15-24
10 Percentage of urban centers        3 cities        33% of           Annual          NGO reports
   which have done high risk                          provinces


                                                 45
   group mapping
11 Number of annual NACP        --                   1               2
   reports and action plans
   informed by surveillance and
   routine monitoring data.
12 Percentage of most at risk   --                   IDU=62.4%       IDU=90.8%        Use of risk
      populations (e.g., IDUs, FSWs,                 Prisoner=NA     Prisoner=NA      reduction
      truckers, prisoners) reached by                FSW=1.4%        FSW=8.3%         services.
      HIV prevention program                         MSM=NA          MSM=10.8%
                                                     RTW=1.64%       RTW=55.6%
13 Percentage of most at risk           --           IDU=NA          IDU=22.1%        Adequate
      populations (e.g., IDUs, FSWs,                 Prisoner=NA     Prisoner=6.6%    knowledge
      truckers, prisoners) who                       FSW=NA          FSW=15.3%        about     HIV
      correctly identify 2 ways of                   MSM=NA          MSM=4.7%         prevention
      preventing HIV transmission                                                     (UNGASS
                                                     RTW=NA          RTW=11.8%
                                                                                      definition)
14 Percentage of TI sites meeting                                                     Not available
      service quality standard
15    Percentage of contracted/ NA                   92%             92%
      sanctioned       implementation
      units w/ uninterrupted fund
      flow and service delivery.

        Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST): by the end of AHAPP, a national OST
        workshop was conducted in order to create a national consensus for scaling up
        OST to cover more of the target population and widen its geographical
        availability in the country. This workshop was based on the successful and
        effective implementation of OST pilot during the life time of AHAPP. As per the
        request from MoCN, the harm reduction guidelines were drafted and updated to
        be used as a starting step towards scaling up OST in three more cities in addition
        to Kabul.
     4) Program management and capacity building
        NACP is well staffed by qualified personnel in almost all technical areas of HIV
        programing including harm reduction, surveillance, and monitoring and
        evaluation. An international HIV advisor has joined NACP since April 2012 to
        help capacitate technical and management aspects of NACP.
        NACP has a number of coordination mechanisms at different levels. Internal staff
        meetings are weekly held to discuss and plan for specific emerging activities and
        events. Quarterly workshops are also organized with all AHAPP implementers to
        discuss progress of different interventions and exchange experiences across all
        NGOs.
        In addition, HIV technical groups are invited on regular basis in areas like
        surveillance and monitoring and evaluation. A new HIV testing and counseling
        guidelines were drafted and shared with technical groups for further processing
        and implementation of up-to-date principles of HIV testing in VCTs and DICs for
        better quality of the service.
                                             46
       Furthermore, HACCA is coordinating other HIV topics and issues among high
       profile stakeholders for the purpose of mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in other
       governmental and private sectors.

   V.       Project expenditure
Please refer to annex 2 for expenditures of individual contracts.
   VI.      Lessons learned
A number of lessons were learnt throughout the period of this project:
    The project was successful, for the first time in Afghanistan, to provide a baseline
        data for HIV epidemic pattern of the country through the first two rounds of IBBS
        surveys.
    In addition to the HIV biological component of the IBBS, a number of behavioral
        indicators are now available describing risk behaviors among populations at
        higher risk of HIV infection in five cities of Afghanistan and should be used for
        further elaboration on the dynamics of HIV in the country.
    The developed expertise of the implementing partners (e.g. national NGOs) in the
        area of targeted intervention should be further scaled-up and continued through
        technical and financial support.
    When scaling up a pilot program such as OST, it is important to make sure that a
        national consensus and strategy are in place, and not simply a budget.
    Harm Reduction was new practice in Afghanistan, so the problem of police
        community leaders with PWIDs could be solved through trainings and meetings.
    An effective decrease in the stigma and discrimination cannot be expected in the
        short term.
    Harm Reduction program challenges can be overcome through outreach and
        advocacy meetings, which continue to be held with local authorities throughout
        the project lifetime.
    Access to PWIDs is possible through a “Peer Network? outreach workers
    In the absence of targeted interventions, a large number of Heroin smokers would
        shift to injection.
    An effective counseling could change the mode of drugs use i.e. from injecting to
        non-injecting drug use
    Identification of hot spots and establishment of safe places for PWIDs is very
        successful ways access to clients
    The role of Peer Educators has proven to be most important in targeted
        intervention projects.

   VII. Annexes
Summary of Borrower's ICR Annex 1: Project results framework




                                           47
         Project Indicators             Baseline      Target End      Frequency          Data
                                         Yr 0           Yr 3*            and          Collection
                                                                       Reports       Instruments
Program Development Objectives:
1. HIV prevalence in general               <0.5%          <0.5%         Every 2       Modeling
population                                                               years
2. HIV prevalence among high risk        IDU: 3%          <=5%          Every 2         IBBS
groups (IDU , SW)                                                        years
Project Key Performance
Indicators:
3. Percentage of IDUs reporting use
                                                     30 % age point
of sterile injection equipment at last      --%                       Every 2 yrs       IBBS
                                                         increase
time injected
4. Percentage of IDUs reporting use                  20 % age point
                                            --%                       Every 2 yrs       IBBS
of condom at last time sex                               increase
5. Percentage of SW reporting use of
                                            --%            50%        Every 2 yrs       IBBS
a condom with their most recent client
6. Percentage of truckers reporting
                                                     20 % age point
use of a condom last time with sex          --%                       Every 2 yrs       IBBS
                                                         increase
worker
7. Percentage of prisoners who report                20 % age point
                                            --%                       Every 2 yrs       IBBS
access to sterile injecting equipment.                   increase
     1. Project Intermediate Outcomes & Outputs by component:
                           Component 1. Advocacy and Communications
8. Score on subset of National               --                         Every 2        Policy
Composite Policy Index                                                   years       assessment
(UNGASS)**
9. Percentage of those aged 15-24           --%      20 % age point    Every 2-3       NRVA
who correctly identify ways of                           increase        years
preventing HIV transmission –
measured in geographic areas specific
to program.
                              Component 2. Strengthening Surveillance
10. Percentage of urban centers which     3 cities        33% of        Annual       NGO reports
have done high risk group mapping                       provinces
11. Number of annual NACP reports            --        Every year       Annual         Annual
and action plans informed by                                                         report and
surveillance and routine monitoring                                                  action plan
data.
                      Component 3. Targeted Interventions for at risk groups
12. Percentage of most at risk               --        IDU: 60%       Every 2 yrs;      IBBS
populations (e.g., IDUs, FSWs,
truckers, prisoners) reached by HIV                    FSW: 50%
prevention program
                                                      Trucker: 25%      Annual        Routine
                                                                                     monitoring
                                                      Prisoner: 80%
13. Percentage of most at risk                          IDU: 50%
                                           --%                        Every 2 yrs       IBBS
populations (e.g., IDUs, FSWs,

                                                 48
truckers, prisoners) who correctly                FSW: 50%
identify 2 ways of preventing HIV
transmission                                     Trucker: 50%

                                                 Prisoner: 75%
14. Percentage of TI sites meeting                IDU: 5 of 6
service quality standard
                                                  FSW 1 of 1
                                                                             Balanced
                                       --                          Annual   score card
                                                 Trucker: 1 of 1
                                                                            assessment
                                               Prisoner: 1 of
                                                     1
                  Component 4. Program management and Capacity building
15. Percentage of contracted/
sanctioned implementation units w/                                           GCMU
                                        --          85%         Annual
uninterrupted fund flow and service                                          reports
delivery.




                                            49
        Summary of Borrower's ICR Annex 2: AHAPP service contracts

      Contract   Implementer         Contract type        Location             Time frame           Expenditu
       Number                                                             From             To       res (USD)
1    AFG/MOPH/   Futures Group     HIV Advocacy &        All AHAPP    15 July 2008   15 Jan 2011    1,063,200
     HIV/001     International     Communication         provinces
                 (FGI)
2    AFG/MOPH/   Johns Hopkins     HIV Surveillance      All AHAPP    26 May 2008    30 Nov 2012    1,532,171
     HIV/002     University                              provinces
                 (JHU)
3    AFG/MOPH/   Zendagi Nawin-    TI for IDU            Kabul West   7 Aug 2008     30 June 2012   953,022
     HIV/003     OTCD
4    AFG/MOPH/   Zendagi Nawin-    TI for IDU            Kabul East   12 Feb 2009    30 June 2012   341,079
     HIV/004     OTCD
5    AFG/MOPH/   Solidarity for    TI for IDU            Kabul        10 Aug 2008    30 June 2012   827,242.6
     H           Afghan
     V/005       Families (SAF)
6    AFG/MOPH/   Solidarity for    TI for IDU            Mazari-      10 Aug 2008    30 June 2012   814,219.7
     HIV/006     Afghan                                  Sharif
                 Families (SAF)
7    AFG/MOPH/   Shahamat          TI for IDU            Herat        10 Aug 2008    30 June 2012   855,288
     HIV/007     Health        &
                 Rehabilitation
                 Organization
                 (SHRO)
8    AFG/MOPH/   Zendagi Nawin     TI for IDU            Jalalabad    10 Aug 2008    30 June 2012   623,565.7
     HIV/008     - OTCD
9    AFG/MOPH/   JACK              TI for sex workers    Kabul        20 Sep 2008    30 June 2012   427,119.3
     HIV/009                       & clients
10   AFG/MOPH/   Samayee           TI for prisoners      Kabul        7 Aug 2008     30 June 2012   402,791.0
     HIV/0010    Development       inc.    operations
                 Organization      research
                 (SDO)
11   AFG/MOPH/   Action Aid (AA)   TI for truckers &     Kabul        7 Aug 2008     30 June 2011   492,699.5
     HIV/0011                      partners
12   AFG/MOPH/   Medicins  De      Piloting OST for      Kabul        19 Jul 2009    30 June 2012   275,551.7
     HIV/0023    Monde (MDM)       IDU




                                                        50
   Summary of Borrower's ICR Annex 3: conventional and MoPH package for harm
   reduction services for TIs


 MOPH/NACP TI Package of Services                  Conventional international package
1. Distribution of Safe-Injecting kits     1.   Needle and syringe programmes
2. Collection of used needles and          2.   Opioid substitution therapy & other drug
    syringes                                    dependence treatment
3. Counselling for blood borne diseases    3.   HIV testing & counselling
    including VCT for HIV                  4.   Anti-retroviral therapy
4. Hepatitis C/B testing                   5.   Prevention and treatment of STIs
5. Condom promotion                        6.   Condom promotion programmes
6. Syndromic management of STIs            7.   Targeted      information,     education  and
7. Abscess management                           communication for IDUs and their sexual
8. Overdose management                          partners
9. Referral for TB services                8.   Vaccination, diagnosis and treatment of viral
10. Referral to ARV centre for HIV+             hepatitis
    clients                                9.   Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of TB
11. Referral for drug detoxification and
    abstinence based treatment
12. Primary health check ups
13. Hygiene kits
14. IEC
15. Social services




                                                51
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Journal Articles and Studies

    1.    Responding to HIV in Afghanistan. Saif-ur-Rehman, Rasoul MZ, Wodak A, Claeson M, Friedman
          J, Sayed GD., Lancet, 2007.
    2.    HIV, hepatitis C, and hepatitis B infections and associated risk behavior in injection drug users,
          Kabul, Afghanistan. Todd CS, Abed AM, Strathdee SA, Scott PT, Botros BA, Safi N, Earhart KC.
          Emerg Infect Dis. 2007a.
    3.    Seroprevalences and co-infections of HIV, hepatitis C virus and hepatitis B virus in injecting drug
          users in Quetta, Pakistan. Achakzai M, Kassi M, Kasi PM. Trop Doct. 2007.
    4.    The explosive human immunodeficiency virus type 1 epidemic among injecting drug users of
          Kathmandu, Nepal, is caused by a subtype C virus of restricted genetic diversity. Oelrichs RB,
          Shrestha IL, Anderson DA, Deacon NJ. J Virol. 2000.
    5.    Association between expatriation and HIV awareness and knowledge among injecting drug users
          in Kabul, Afghanistan. Todd CS, Abed AM, Strathdee SA, Scott PT, Botros BA, Safi N and
          Earhart KC. Confl Health. 2007b.
    6.    The Global HIV Epidemics among Men who have Sex with Men . Beyrer C. et al. Directions in
          Development Series. World Bank, 2011a.
    7.    The Global HIV Epidemics among Sex Workers. Kerrigan D, Wirtz A, Baral S, Decker M, Murray
          L, Poteat T, Pretorius C, Sherman S, Sweat M, Semini I, N'Jie N, Stanciole A, Butler J,
          Osornprasop S, Oelrichs R, and Beyrer C. Directions in Development Series, World Bank, 2012.
    8.    Buying results? Contracting for health service delivery in developing countries. Loevinsohn B,
          Harding A. Lancet. 2005.
    9.    Contracting for health services: Effects of utilization and quality on the costs of the Basic
          Package of Health Services in Afghanistan. Ameli, O. and Newbrander, W. Bulletin of the World
          Health Organization, 2008.
    10.   The Global HIV Epidemics among People Who Inject Drugs . Dutta, Wirtz, Stanciole, Oelrichs,
          Semini and Cleghorn., Directions in Development Series, World Bank, 2012.
    11.   Effects of duration of injection drug use and age at first injection on HCV among IDU in Kabul,
          Afghanistan. Bautista CT, Todd CS, Abed AM, Botros BA, Strathdee SA, Earhart KC, Safi N,
          Scott PT. J Public Health (Oxf). 2010.
    12.   The Golden Crescent and HIV/AIDS in Central Asia: Deadly interactions . Beyrer C. Glob Public
          Health. 2011b.
    13.   Implementing harm reduction for heroin users in Afghanistan, the worldwide opium supplier .
          Maguet O, Majeed M. Int J Drug Policy. 2010.
    14.   Prevalence of HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C and associated risk behaviours amongst injecting
          drug users in three Afghan cities. Nasir A. et al. Int J of Drug Policy, 2011.
    15.   Concentrated epidemics of HIV, HCV, and HBV among Afghan refugees . Khanani MR, Ansari
          AS, Khan S, Somani M, Kazmi SU, Ali SH. J Infect. 2010.
    16.   HIV awareness and condom use among female sex workers in Afghanistan: implications for
          intervention. Todd CS, Nasir A, Stanekzai MR, Scott PT, Close NC, Botros BA, Strathdee SA,
          Tjaden J. AIDS Care. 2011.
    17.   HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C prevalence and associated risk behaviors among female sex
          workers in three Afghan cities. Todd CS, Nasir A, Stanekzai MR, Bautista CT, Botros BA, Scott
          PT, Strathdee SA, Tjaden J. AIDS. 2010.
    18.   Seroprevalence and correlates of HIV, syphilis, and hepatitis B and C virus among intrapartum
          patients in Kabul, Afghanistan. Todd CS, Ahmadzai M, Atiqzai F, Miller S, Smith JM, Ghazanfar
          SA, Strathdee SA. BMC Infect Dis. 2008.
    19.   Molecular epidemiology of HIV type 1 infection in Iran: genomic evidence of CRF35_AD
          predominance and CRF01_AE infection among individuals associated with injection drug use .
          Jahanbakhsh F, Ibe S, Hattori J, Monavari SH, Matsuda M, Maejima M, Iwatani Y,
          Memarnejadian A, Keyvani H, Azadmanesh K, Sugiura W. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2013.




                                                     52
Reports

   1.     Evaluation of Afghanistan OST Pilot Project. Emran Razaghi. World Health Organization, Eastern
          Mediterranean Regional Office, April 2011.
   2.     Opiate Substitution Therapy Evaluation. Kabul, Afghanistan, Recommendations . Johns Hopkins
          Bloomberg School of Public Health. June 2012.
   3.     Integrated Behavioral & Biological Surveillance (IBBS) in Afghanistan. Findings of 2009 IBBS
          survey. Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 2010.
   4.     Integrated Behavioral & Biological Surveillance (IBBS) in Afghanistan. Findings of 2012 IBBS
          survey and comparison to 2009. Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 2012.
   5.     Assessment of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan HIV & AIDS Prevention Programme . Gordon
          Mortimor. Submitted to: The World Bank Afghanistan, 2010.
   6.     Observing the World AIDS Day in Afghanistan, December 03, 2011. A Brief Report, Islamic
          Republic of Afghanistan, National AIDS Control Program. 2011.
   7.     Annual Project Report: July 2009 to June 2010. Afghanistan HIV&AIDS Prevention Project
          (AHAPP), Grant No. H-328 AF, NACP, August 2010.
   8.     National AIDS Control Program Semi- annual Report 1st Saratan-30th (22 June-22 Nov 2011).
          Ministry of Public Health, Afghanistan, December, 2011.
   9.     Building on early gains in Afghanistan’s Health Nutrition and Population Sector: challenges and
          options. Belay, T. World Bank, Washington DC, 2010.
   10.    The Afghanistan Health Sector – A Decade of Tremendous Progress. Submission to the United
          States Department of the Treasury, Development Impact Honors 2012. By: World Bank,
          Afghanistan Health, Nutrition and Population Team. C. Kostermans, 2012.
   11.    Afghanistan Country Program Evaluation 2002-2011. Independent Evaluation Group (IEG),
          World Bank. Washington DC, 2011
   12.    World Development Report 2011: Conflict, Security, and Development . World Bank, Washington
          DC, 2011.
   13.    Report of Findings of an Ethnographic Study of Injecting Drug Use in Afghanistan Context -
          Specific Implications for HIV Prevention. Report by: F. Mansoor & F. Claudio. World Vision
          International. 2011.
   14.    AIDS epidemic update, UNAIDS, Geneva. 2004.


Bank Documents

   1.     Project Concept Note, Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (P101502), 2006
   2.     Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (P101502), Implementation Status & Results Reports
          and associated mission aides–mémoire: January 2007 – November 2012.
   3.     Afghanistan Health Sector Portfolio Review Mission, October 3-11, 2009: Mission Aide–mémoire.
   4.     Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (P101502) Mid Term Review, February 2010:
          Mission aide–mémoire
   5.     Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (P101502) Pre-appraisal January 2007: Mission aide–
          mémoire
   6.     Technical Annex (Report No: T7698 – AF) – Proposed Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention
          Project, July 5, 2007
   7.     Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (#43940) Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (P101502)
          Appraisal Stage, Date prepared/updated: 05/08/2007.
   8.     Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (Report No: P7698 – AF) for a Proposed
          Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, July 5, 2007
   9.     Emergency Project Paper on a Proposed Grant to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (Report No.
          47144-F) for Strengthening Health Activities for the Rural Poor (SHARP) Project February
          18,2009


                                                   53
   10. Project Information Document (#AB2839). Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (P101502)
       Appraisal Stage, July 2007.
   11. Restructuring Paper Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (P101502), June 28, 2010.
   12. Emergency Project Paper on a Proposed Grant to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (Report No.
       73645-AF) for System Enhancement for Health Action in Transition (SEHAT) Project February 9,
       2013
   13. Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA-H0430 IDA-H2060 IDA-H3840) on Grants
       to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for a Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and
       Development Project (Report No. ICR00001294), March 31, 2010


Government Documents

   1.   Afghanistan National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework 2011-2015 (NSF II), Government of the
        Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Kabul, Afghanistan, December, 2011.
   2.   National HIV and AIDS Policy. Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Ministry of
        Public Health, National AIDS Control Program, 2012.
   3.   Afghanistan National Development Strategy – Summary Report. An Interim Strategy for Security,
        Governance, Economic Growth & Poverty Reduction. Government of the Islamic Republic of
        Afghanistan. 2005.
   4.   Afghanistan National Development Strategy 1387 – 1391 (2008 – 2013) A Strategy for Security,
        Governance, Economic Growth & Poverty Reduction , Government of the Islamic Republic of
        Afghanistan, 2008.
   5.   Implementation Completion and Result Report, Afghanistan HIV/AIDS Prevention Project,
        Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Ministry of Public Health, DG of Preventive Medicine,
        Communicable Disease Control Directorate, National AIDS Control Program. 2013.
   6.   Afghanistan National HIV Code of Ethics. Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Ministry of Public
        Health, June 2007.




                                                 54
Annex 7. Figures




Figure A. Regional HIV prevalence data in IDU. UNAIDS, 2004


                            40                                                                                            6
                                                                                   Round 4                                                                                          Round 4
                            35
                                                                                                                          5
 HIV Prevalence - percent




                                                                                               HIV Prevalence - percent




                            30
                                                                                                                          4                                 Round 3
                            25
                                                             Round 3                  Young
                            20                                                        PWID                                3
                            15
                                                                Round 2                                                   2
                            10                                                                                                                                 Round 2
                                                         Round 1
                                                                                                                          1
                            5                                                                                                                  Round 1
                            0                                                                                             0
                                 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011                                       2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
                                           Modeled male PWID prevalence in Goals                                                 Modeled MSW/HSW prevalence in Goals
                                           National PWID prevalence from surveys                                                 National weighted average MSW/HSW prevalence from surveys




Figure B Comparison of model and survey-based HIV prevalence estimates in Pakistan
over 2001-11 for PWID (left) and for MSW/HSW (weighted average) (right) Source: The
Global HIV Epidemics among People Who Inject Drugs. Dutta, Wirtz, Stanciole,
Oelrichs, Semini and Cleghorn. World Bank, Directions in Development Series, 2012.
(Authors’ calculations from referenced national data).




                                                                                              55
