Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H328-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS Prevention Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 2, 2007  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H328-AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated September 2, 2007, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to six 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MOPH in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and in conformity with 
the health care principles of medical confidentiality and informed consent. 
 
Page  4
2
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
3
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Alastair J. McKechnie 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to slow down the spread of HIV/AIDS and build 
up the Recipient’s capacity to respond to the epidemic by: (i) achieving a behavioral 
change in High Risk Groups; and (ii) improving knowledge of HIV/AIDS prevention 
mechanisms and reducing stigma related to HIV/AIDS of the Recipient’s general 
population. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Communication and Advocacy
Planning and implementing advocacy and communication activities aimed at 
creating a policy environment that enables the scaling up of targeted interventions for 
HIV/AIDS prevention in High Risk Groups, including: (i) carrying out targeted audience 
research and surveys; (ii) developing training and information packages; and 
 
(iii) coordinating high-level meetings, workshops and training sessions for, 
inter alia
,
service providers, private practitioners and journalists. 
Part 2
:
Strengthening of HIV/AIDS Surveillance
Developing and implementing a second generation surveillance system in order 
to: (i) map and estimate the size of High Risk Groups; (ii) collect biological and 
behavioral data from representative samples of their population; and (iii) determine 
HIV/AIDS dynamic and the trajectory and magnitude of the epidemic in the country. 
Part 3
:
Targeted Interventions for High Risk Behaviors
Supporting targeted interventions in four (4) major cities in order to prevent 
further spread of HIV/AIDS among High Risk Groups, by promoting safe behavioral 
practices and implementing comprehensive harm reduction packages, including, 
inter 
alia
,
the establishment and operation of drop-in-centers providing social support, needle 
and syringe exchange, condom distribution, care, and referral for voluntary confidential 
counseling and testing. 
Part 4
:
Project Management and Innovation Initiative
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of: (i) MOPH in order to manage, 
implement, monitor and evaluate the Project; and (ii) HACCA in order to coordinate the 
Recipient’s Multi-Sector HIV/AIDS Response. 
2. 
Developing and implementing an Innovation Initiative in order to provide 
financing to selected HIV Prevention Activities to be carried out by Eligible Partners for 
mainstreaming the Multi-Sector HIV/AIDS Response. 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall vest the responsibility for the overall management and 
coordination of the Project in MOPH. To this end, the Recipient shall cause 
MOPH to: 
(a) 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the HACCA 
with composition acceptable to the Association, chaired by the Deputy 
Minister for Technical Affairs of MOPH, and including among other, 
representatives of other public agencies, the private sector and civil 
society, external development partners, provincial governments, and 
High Risk Groups, said committee to be responsible for the multi-
sectoral, broad-based and inclusive policy guidance and general 
oversight of the Project, including the development of a national policy 
for the treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS; 
(b) 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the NACP and 
GCMU, which units shall be responsible for the day-to-day technical, 
financial and procurement management (except procurement under HIV 
Prevention Activities under the Innovation Fund) and coordination of the 
Project as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; each such unit to 
be provided with sufficient resources under the direction of a qualified 
and experienced manager acceptable to the Association, and assisted by 
staff in adequate numbers, with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; 
(c) 
establish within the NACP, by not later than one month after the 
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain throughout the implementation of 
the Project, a Planning Committee, with composition acceptable to the 
Association; said committee to be responsible for the preparation of the 
Annual Work Plan and the estimate budget therefor; 
(d) 
establish under the auspices of NACP, by not later than one (1) month 
after the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain throughout the 
implementation of the Project, an HIV-Surveillance Working Group, 
with composition acceptable to the Association, including representatives 
of various MOPH departments, public and private agencies or 
organizations engaged in HIV/AIDS surveillance, and technical experts; 
said group to be responsible
,
inter alia,
 for providing guidance to NACP 
Page  8
6
on the development of a second generation surveillance system and the 
strategy plan for implementing surveillance activities; 
(e) 
establish under the auspices of HACCA, by no later than three (3) 
months after the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain throughout the 
implementation of the Project, a multi-sector review board (the 
“Innovation Initiative Review Board), with composition acceptable to the 
Association, chaired by the director of NACP, and including 
representatives of, 
inter alia
,
the GCMU, HACCA (other than those 
nominated by MOPH), MOPH, IRB, APHI, NGOs, High Risk Groups, 
the private sector and the CCM Secretariat; said panel to be responsible 
for the selection and approval of proposals by Eligible Partners for 
innovative HIV/AIDS Prevention Activities consistent with the Multi-
Sector HIV/AIDS Response; 
(f) 
engage, through the NACP, and thereafter retain throughout the 
implementation of the Project, four additional advisers for the areas  
of: (i) monitoring and evaluation; (ii) advocacy and communications; 
(iii) interventions on injecting drug users interventions; and 
 
(iv) interventions on other High Risk Groups, in order to ensure NACP’s 
technical coordination of the Project is carried out with due regard to 
efficiency, economy, and transparency principles and sound 
environmental and health practices and standards, and in consistency 
with the Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework and the Project 
Implementation Plan; and 
(g) 
engage, through the GCMU, and thereafter retain throughout the 
implementation of the Project, two (2) additional advisers for the areas  
of: (i) procurement; and (ii) financial management, in order to ensure that 
the GCMU’s carries out the procurement and financial administration of 
the Project with due regard to efficiency, economy and transparency 
principles, and sound financial management practices and standards, and 
in consistency with the Procurement and Consultants Guidelines and the 
Project Implementation Plan; said advisers to be responsible for, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) updating the annual Procurement Plan for the Project, handling 
the procurement of goods and services, and preparing summary reports; 
and (ii) assisting GCMU in carrying out the day-to-day financial 
management of the Project, including the preparation of withdrawal 
applications, statement of expenditures, payments orders and financial 
reports. 
 
Page  9
7
2. 
In order to guide the NACP and GCMU in the implementation of Project 
activities, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
through MOPH, develop and adopt a Project Implementation Plan, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Association, setting forth, 
inter 
alia
,
(i) the assignment of responsibilities and coordination arrangements 
between NACP and GCMU; (ii) guidelines and procedures for the 
preparation and implementation of HIV/AIDS surveillance and targeted 
interventions, including protocols to protect individually identifiable 
health information and ensure voluntary participation; (iii) procurement 
arrangements consistent with Section III of this Schedule; (iv) terms of 
reference for the Innovation Initiative and minimum qualifications and 
requirements for Eligible Partners to participate; (v) selection criteria and 
procedures for the approval of proposals for HIV Prevention Activities to 
be financed under the Innovation Initiative; and (vi) the standard terms 
and conditions of the MOUs and Subgrant Agreements for the 
implementation of approved HIV Prevention Activities, including those 
set forth in the Attachment to this Schedule;  
(b) 
adopt a Financial Management Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, setting forth policies, protocols and 
procedures for the flow of funds, settlements of payments, accounting, 
maintenance of records, and reporting, internal control and auditing 
requirements; and 
(c) 
neither amend, nor revise or waive, the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Plan or the Financial Management Manual, if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment, revision or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the Project’s objectives. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards 
In carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall implement, or cause to implement, 
the environmental measures and risk mitigation protocols provided in the 
Environmental Management Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
and shall not amend, revised or waived the provision of said plan without the 
prior concurrence of the Association. 
Page  10
8
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than ninety (90) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (1) above, and upon the 
expiration of the periods covered by each Annual Work Plan, the Recipient shall 
prepare integrated annual reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, covering the activities implemented over the said period. Each 
integrated annual report to be furnished to the Association not later than ninety 
(90) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association quarterly interim unaudited financial 
reports covering the activities implemented under the Project on each calendar 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. Each such interim 
unedited financial reports to be furnished to the Association not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period.
 
Page  11
9
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  Shopping
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
*National Competitive Bidding procedures shall be subject to the following 
additional requirements:  
(a) 
standard bidding documents approved by the Association will be used; 
(b) 
invitations to bid will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents will be made available 
Page  12
10
 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
(c) 
bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost; 
(d) 
bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee; 
(e) 
foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding; 
(f) 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will 
be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder will 
be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance; 
(g) 
bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail; 
(h) 
all bidders will provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security will apply only to a specific bid; 
(i) 
bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but no 
later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(j) 
evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association; 
(k) 
bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association; 
(l) 
split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When 
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation will be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved will be disqualified and the 
award will then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids will be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association; 
(m) 
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances; 
Page  13
11
 
(n) 
extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period; 
(o) 
negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders; 
(p) 
re-bidding will not be carried out without the Association
’s prior 
concurrence; and 
(q) 
all contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality-and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Quality Based Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(e)  Single-Source Selection 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants  
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of USD200,000 or 
Page  14
12
 
more; (b) each contract for goods procured on the basis of Direct Contracting 
regardless of value; (c) each contract for consultants’ services with firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of USD100,000 or more; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services with individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent 
of USD50,000 or more; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services procured 
on the basis of Single-Source Selection regardless of value. All other contracts 
shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ services, 
training, Incremental 
Operating Costs and 
Subgrants 
 
6,502,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
98,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07 of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,600,000  
Page  15
13
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 657,000 
(USD1,000,000 equivalent) may be made for payments made prior to this date 
but on or after March 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, by no later than January 31 each year, commencing 
on January 31, 2008, cause the Planning Committee to prepare an annual 
work plan setting out the Project activities to be carried out during the 
following solar year and the respective procurement plan, which plan 
shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
By no later than February 15 each year
,
submit such plan to HACCA’s 
approval and, thereafter, implement the Project activities in accordance 
with such plan, as approved.  
2
In carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Recipient shall:  
(a) 
by no later than one (1) month as of the Effective Date, adopt a national 
HIV/AIDS monitoring and evaluation plan acceptable to the Association 
setting forth the monitoring and evaluation structure, national indicators 
and guidelines for the collection and use of indicator data; and 
(b) 
within nine (9) months as of the Effective Date, carry out integrated 
biological and behavioral surveys, under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association, to obtain baseline measures of representative samples of 
High Risk Groups; 
3. 
In carrying out Part 4(2) of the Project, the Recipient shall only finance 
innovative HIV Prevention Activities submitted by an Eligible Partner, provided 
that: 
(a) 
the HIV Prevention Activities have been screened and approved by the 
Innovation Initiative Review Board pursuant to the procedures and 
selection criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, to ensure: 
(i) the quality of the proposal; (ii) its epidemiological relevance; (iii) its 
alignment with, and expected contribution to, the Project’s development 
objectives; and (iv) the optimal use of existing resources; and 
Page  16
14
 
(b) 
upon approval of any such HIV Prevention Activity, MOPH and the 
respective Eligible Partner have entered into an MOU or Subgrant 
Agreement, as the case may be, in terms and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, setting forth the undertakings of the parties for the 
implementation of the HIV Prevention Activity, including those set forth 
in the Attachment to this Schedule. 
4. 
In carrying out Part 4(2) of the Project, the recipient shall: 
(a) 
ensure that the Other Line-Ministries execute the HIV Prevention 
Activities in accordance with, and perform all their obligations pursuant 
to, their respective MOUs, in such a manner as to accomplish the 
purposes of this Financing and to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Association; and 
(b) 
exercise its rights under the Subgrant Agreements in order to ensure that 
the NGOs and CBOs execute the HIV Prevention Activities in 
accordance with, and perform all their obligations pursuant to, their 
respective Subgrant Agreements, in such a manner as to accomplish the 
purposes of this Financing and to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Association. 
Page  17
15
 
ATTACHMENT 
TO  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Standard Terms and Conditions  
for MOUs and Subgrant Agreements 
Section I. 
MOUs among MOF, MOPH and Other Line-Ministries under the
Innovation Initiative 
The Recipient shall ensure that the terms and conditions of the MOUs provide 
that:  
(a) 
in carrying out the HIV Prevention Activities, the Other Line-Ministries:  
(i) 
appoint a dedicated and qualified team, capable of implementing 
the activities with due regard to community sensitivities and 
ethical considerations, including principles of personal respect, 
informed consent, medical confidentiality and limited disclosure, 
and equal access to services without discrimination or 
stigmatization; 
(ii) 
abide by, and comply with, the provisions of the Anti-corruption 
Guidelines; 
(iii) 
abide by, and comply with, the Environmental and Social 
Safeguard Framework and/or the Environmental Management 
Plan, as the case may be; 
(iv) 
prepare semiannual implementation progress reports and 
quarterly financial reports satisfactory to NACP, GCMU and the 
Association and, at the request of the Association, NACP or 
GCMU, exchange views with regard to such implementation, 
and/or furnish NACP, GCMU or the Association with all such 
related information as may reasonably be required; and 
(v) 
promptly inform NACP of any conditions which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of activities or the 
compliance with their respective obligations and responsibilities 
under the MOUs; 
(b) 
goods and services be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
Page  18
16
 
(c) 
the financial and procurement arrangements be satisfactory to the 
Association and in accordance with the Financial Management Manual; 
and 
(d) no 
civil servants’ salaries, salary supplements, and/or overheads be 
eligible for financing under the Innovation Initiative. 
Section II. 
Subgrant Agreements between MOPH and CBOs and/or NGOs
under the Innovation Initiative
The Recipient shall ensure that the terms and condition of the Subgrant 
Agreements provide that in carrying out the HIV Prevention Activities, the NGOs and/or 
CBOs:  
 
(i) 
undertake to implement the activities with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
technical, financial, economic environmental and social 
standards and practices, consistent with the requirements of this 
Agreements; 
(ii) 
appoint a dedicated and qualified team, capable of implementing 
the activities with due regard to community sensitivities and 
ethical considerations, including principles of personal respect, 
informed consent, medical confidentiality and limited disclosure, 
and equal access to services without discrimination or 
stigmatization; 
(iii) 
abide by, and comply with, the provisions of the Anti-corruption 
Guidelines; 
(iv) 
abide by, and comply with, the Environmental and Social 
Safeguard Framework and/or the Environmental Management 
Plan, as the case may be; 
(v) 
undertake to carry out procurement in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as the said provisions may be further elaborated in 
the Procurement Plan; 
(vi) 
undertake to maintain a financial management system, prepare 
financial statements in a manner adequate to reflect their 
operations and financial conditions, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project, and carry out 
audits with terms of reference satisfactory to the NACP and the 
Association;    
Page  19
17
 
(vii) 
prepare semiannual implementation progress reports and 
quarterly financial reports satisfactory to NACP, GCMU and the 
Association and, at the request of the Association, GCMU or 
NACP, exchange views with regard to such implementation, 
and/or furnish GCMU, NACP or the Association with all such 
related information as may reasonably be required; 
(viii) 
promptly inform NACP of any conditions which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of activities or the 
compliance with their respective obligations and responsibilities 
under the Subgrant Agreements; and 
(ix) 
agree that NACP may suspend or terminate the right of any such 
NGOs or CBOs to use the proceeds of this Financing made 
available under the Subgrant Agreements: (A) upon failure of 
such NGOs or CBOs to perform any of their obligations under 
the Subgrant Agreements; or (B) upon suspension of this 
Financing by the Association or the issuance of a notice 
declaring the Association’s intent to proceed with such 
suspension. 
Page  20
18
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Annual Work Plan” means the plan to be prepared by the Planning Committee 
pursuant to Section V.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“APHI” means the Afghanistan Public Health Institute, a General Directorate 
within MOPH. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CBO” means a community-based organization. 
6. 
“CCM Secretariat” means the Secretariat of the Country Coordinating 
Mechanism, i.e. the local multi-sectoral administrative body responsible of 
coordinating country activities for the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and Malaria. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
8. 
“Eligible Partners” means any NGOs, CBOs or Other Line-Ministries which 
qualify for the submission of proposals for the carrying out of HIV Prevention 
Activities, pursuant to the selection criteria set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan.  
9. 
“Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework” means the Recipient’s 
environmental and social safeguard framework, dated March 12, 2007, which 
sets out, 
inter alia
:
(i) key principles for social and environmental management 
for the Project; (ii) procedures for the environmental screening of Project 
activities in order to identify their social and environmental impacts, and design 
appropriate mitigation plans; (iii) mechanisms to ensure that these principles, 
procedures and plans are properly applied during Project implementation; and 
(iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring; as said framework may be 
amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association. 
10. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan to be approved 
by the MOPH, pursuant to Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, aimed at 
mitigating the Project environmental risks; which plan includes an infection 
Page  21
19
 
control and waste management protocol for the handling, treatment and disposal 
of infectious biological, laboratory and pharmaceutical wastes related to the 
testing, treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS. 
11. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the 
Recipient for purposes of implementing the Project, pursuant to 
 
Section I.A(2)(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
12. 
“GCMU” means the MOPH’s Grant and Contracting Management Unit, or any 
successor thereto. 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
14. 
“HACCA” means the Recipient’s HIV/AIDS Coordination Committee of 
Afghanistan established on February 1, 2007.  
15. 
“High Risk Groups” means groups engaged in, or exposed to, high risk 
behaviors, such as injection drug users and their partners, sex workers and 
clients, prisoners, and males having sex with males. 
16. 
“HIV/AIDS” means the human immunodeficiency virus and the associated 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
17. 
“HIV Prevention Activities” means, collectively, the multi-sectoral approach 
proposals for innovative HIV prevention activities submitted by Eligible Partners 
to the Innovation Initiative Review Board for approval and financing through the 
Innovation Initiative; and the term “HIV Prevention Activity” means each such 
proposal, individually. 
18. 
“HIV-Surveillance Working Group” means the technical group to be established 
by the Recipient pursuant to Section I.A(1)(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
19. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of incremental 
expenditures incurred by NACP and GCMU on account of Project 
implementation which costs (which expenditures would not have been incurred 
absent the Project), including: (i) rental of office space; (ii) the operation, 
maintenance, rental and insurance of vehicles; (iii) fuel; (iv) communications 
supplies and charges; (v) advertisements; (vi) books and periodicals; (vii) office 
administration and maintenance costs; (viii) office consumables; (ix) bank 
transaction charges; (x) utility charges; and (xi) domestic travel expenditures and 
per diem allowance, but excluding salaries of officials and staff of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
Page  22
20
 
20. 
“Innovation Initiative” means the financing program set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan for the carrying out of innovative, multi-sectoral and 
epidemiologically relevant activities by Eligible Partners, to help contain the 
transmission dynamics of the HIV/AIDS. 
21. 
“Innovation Initiative Review Board” means the board to be established by the 
Recipient for purposes of screening and approving HIV Prevention Activities, 
pursuant to Section I.A(1)(e) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
22. 
“IRB” means the MOPH’s Institutional Review Board established within APHI. 
23. 
“MOPH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Health, or any successor 
thereto. 
24. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto. 
25. 
“MOUs” means, collectively, the memoranda of understanding to be entered 
among MOPH, MOF and Other Line-Ministries for the financing and 
implementation of approved HIV Prevention Activities; and the acronym 
“MOU” means each such memorandum, individually. 
26. 
“Multi-Sector HIV/AIDS Response” means the national multi sector response as 
outlined in the national HIV/AIDS strategy plan contained in the Recipient’s 
Program Operational Plan. 
27. 
“NACP” means the MOPH’s National AIDS Control Program Directorate. 
28. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization. 
29. 
“Other Line-Ministries” means the Recipient’s Ministries, other than MOPH, 
interested in applying for financing through the Innovation Initiative for the 
carrying out of HIV Prevention Activities. 
30. 
“Planning Committee” means the committee to be established pursuant to 
Section I.A(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
31. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
32. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 31, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Page  23
21
 
33. 
“Program Operational Plan” means the Recipient’s national plan for the years 
2006 through 2010, aimed at maintaining a low prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the 
population and to reduce mortality and morbidity associated with HAIV/AIDS, 
as approved by HACCA on April 19, 2007. 
34. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Recipient’s implementation plan to be 
adopted pursuant to Section I.A(2)(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which 
plan covers a subset of HIV/AIDS preventive activities and planned interventions 
for the period 2007-2009 consistent with the Program Operational Plan, and sets 
forth the implementation arrangements for the Project. 
35. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on November 7, 2006, 
and on behalf of the Recipient on December 18, 2006. 
36. 
“Subgrants” means, collectively, the financings to be provided out of the 
proceeds of this Financing to NGOs and CBOs through the Innovation Initiative, 
under the terms and conditions set forth in the Subgrant Agreements, for the 
carrying out of HIV Prevention Activities approved by the Innovation Initiative 
Review Board in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and the 
provisions of this Agreement; and the term “Subgrant” means each such 
financing, individually. 
37. 
“Subgrant Agreements” means, collectively, the subgrant financing agreements 
to be entered between MOPH and an NGO or a CBO for the financing and 
implementation of approved HIV Prevention Activities; and the term “Subgrant 
Agreement” mean each subgrant financing agreement, individually.
 
