Document of
The World Bank                       FtLE CUPA Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2607-BD
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 18, 1979
Tranportation Division
South Asia Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at Tk 34.7
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to
the US Dollar and, consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate
is subject to change. The rate below has been used through-
out this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1           =    Tk 15.5
Tk 1           =    US$0.0645
Tk 1 million        US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot         =    0.305 meters
1 mile               1.609 kilometers
PRINCIPAL GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
BTS      -   Bangladesh Transport Survey
GOB      -   Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
MIRS     -   Road Maintenance, Improvement and Rehabilitation
Study
MRRHRT   -   Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and
Road Transport
RHD      -   Roads and Highways Department
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .................................           1
A.  Economic Setting ......        ......................  1
B.  The Transport Sector .....        ...................  1
C.  Transport Management, Policy and Investment            4
D.  The Bank Group Assistance in the Transport
Sector.                                             7
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR.                                                7
A.  The Highway Network and Highway Traffic                7
B. Administration.                                         9
C. Planning and Financing.                                 9
D.  Engineering, Construction and Maintenance             11
III. THE FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT .14
A. Background.                                            14
B. Credit 408-BD .16
IV. THE PROJECT    ..20
A. Project Formulation .20
B. Project Description .20
C. Cost Estimates .23
D. Execution of the Project .25
E. Procurement .26
F.  Financing and Disbursements .27
G.  Maintenance of Project Roads .28
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ... .............................         28
A.  Sources of Benefits and Beneficiaries .......         28
B.  Costs and Benefits ..........................         29
C.    Conclusions   .................................     30
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............          31
This report was prepared by Messrs. L. Ahamed (Economist) and P. Dennis
(Highway Engineer); Mr. Y. Abe (Economist) also assisted.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcil dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
I  -   Reporting Requirements
II  -   Methodology Used in Economic Analysis
III  -   Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
IV  -   Road Maintenance, Improvement and Rehabilitation
Study - Terms of Reference
TABLES
1  -   Number of Vehicles on the Road
2  -   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
3  -   Schedule of Plant and Equipment
4  -   Project Costs by Year
5  -   Design Standards for Bypasses
CHARTS
Structure of RHD as at January 1979 (World Bank Chart No. 20402)
Implementation Schedule (World Bank Chart No. 20418)
Structure of the Ministry of Railways, Roads,
Highways and Road Transport (World Bank Chart No. 20419)
MAP IBRD Map 14384R



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      Bangladesh covers a land area of about 55,000 square miles, much
of which comprises a vast alluvial plain. The country is effectively divided
into four parts by two massive rivers, the Jamuna and the Ganges which, at
their point of confluence, become the Padma River and later, at the point of
confluence with Meghna River, become the Lower Meghna River. In addition
there are many smaller rivers, canals and other watercourses. The annual
monsoon floods require railways and roads to be built on high embankments.
Few building materials are available and, owing in particular to the lack
of rock for road construction in the alluvial delta terrain, road and bridge
construction is expensive. River channels are frequently shifted by the
floods, requiring ferries to be moved, and navigable waterways to be cleared
or relocated.
1.02      Bangladesh's gross domestic product (GDP) in 1977/78 at current
factor cost is estimated at about US$7.3 billion with a per capita GDP of
about US$86. The population, currently about 85 million, is growing at about
2.7% per annum. The real average annual growth rate of GDP has been about 7%
during the past three years. The major sector in the economy is agriculture,
generating about 57% of GDP. Agriculture development is largely dependent
on more effective supporting services, better inputs availability and more
efficient marketing systems--implying vastly improved transportation.
B. The Transport Sector
1.03      The geography and history of Bangladesh have given rise to a varied
and complex transport system. The numerous watercourses have traditionally
provided the main avenues of commerce but have also been principal obstacles
to the development of an integrated transport network of roads and railways.
The railways, originally developed in the nineteenth century as a part of
the Indian Railways system, connect key economic centers such as Dacca,
Chittagong, Mymensingh, Khulna, Ishurdi, etc. The most striking development
in the transport sector since partition in 1947 has been the growth of road
transport from its former negligible role to an important transport mode for
both goods and passengers. However, the significance of road transport is
restricted to certain major short and medium-haul routes. All transport
modes serve the key centers of Bangladesh. They largely complement one
another rather than compete for traffic. In addition substantial freight
and passengers are carried by non-mechanized vessels (country boats) and
bullock carts. Bangladesh's transport network is shown in Map IBRD 14384R.
1.04      The transport network in Bangladesh suffered considerable damage
during the war of independence in 1971. It is estimated that 40% of the trucks
on the road and 35% of the buses were lost. The damage to railway workshops,
locomotives and wagons and other installations was severe. In addition, 299



-2-
railway bridges and 274 road bridges were either damaged or destroyed. Air-
fields were damaged and sunken ships blocked the ports. While, by mid 1973,
most of the damaged bridges and ports had been rebuilt, the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) continued in the first Five-Year Plan (1973/74 - 1977/78) to
assign major priority to the restoration and reconstruction of transport
infrastructure. The implementation of the first Five-Year Plan was, however,
halted in two years because of inflation at home and abroad. The whole Plan
had to be reexamined and a "Hard-core Program" for the remaining three years
of the Plan period prepared with more modest targets than originally envisaged.
TRANSPORT OF BANGLADESH
1969/70  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78
Roads and Road Transport
Road Length (miles)               4481      4671      4724      4724     4750
Buses (on the road)               4365      6207      6812      7205     7509
Trucks (on the road)              9355      9378      9457      9838     9757
Railways (Route Mileage
- 1786 miles)
Passenger Miles (million)         2061      2524      2772      2879     3110
Freight Ton-Miles (million)        774        381      457       436      481
Inland Waterways (IWTC)
Passengers (million)               -         1.40     1.62      1.88     2.01
Freight Tons (million)             -         1.45     1.84      1.56     2.28
Ocean Ports (million tons)
Chittagong                        5.04      4.50      4.48      3.45     5.14
Chalna                                       1.54     1.53      1.09     1.78
1.05      Accurate and up-to-date data on the growth of passenger and freight
traffic modes is not available - primarily due to the significant role played
by small private operators in road and water transport. The most detailed
source of information is the Bangladesh Transport Survey (BTS), originally
completed in 1974 and updated in 1978, but it only has data up to 1975/76.
The available statistics indicate that while passenger traffic has continued
to grow since 1972, the growth of freight traffic has been erratic (see Table
above). Freight traffic consists largely of exports and imports through the
maritime ports at Chittagong and Chalna and a few domestically produced or
processed goods; e.g., cement, fertilizer and petroleum products. Much of the
erratic growth in freight traffic can be attributed to the effects of fluc-
tuations in imports especially foodgrains, fertilizer, and cement, and in
exports of jute and jute goods. The commodity composition and intermodal
share of freight traffic is given below:



-3 -
Estimated Freight Traffic (Main Interdistrict Movements)
(thousand tons)
1972/73     1975/76
Foodgrain (Public Sector)                    3,053        1,383
Fertilizer                                     297          494
Cement                                         330          328
Jute and Jute Products                       1,416          971
Coal Products                                  151          205
Iron and Steel                                 124          117
Stones and Boulders                            401          393
Petroleum Products                             858          773
Total                                  6,630        4,664
Of which
Road                                         1,075         481
Rail                                         1,302        1,713
Inland Water                                4,253        2,470
Source:  "Review and Updating of BTS," dated January 1978.
(a) Roads and Road Transport
1.06      Details of the road and road transport subsectors are discussed
in Chapter II.
(b) Railways
1.07      Bangladesh Railway (BR) is state owned and managed and has a system
of 1,187 route miles of meter gauge track in the eastern part of the country
and 599 route miles of broad gauge in the west. The two halves of the system
are connected by two ferries across the Jamuna River.  The track is of low
standard and most of it is poorly maintained.  Since independence, employee
productivity, and availability and utilization rates of locomotives and roll-
ing stock, have all fallen, thus reducing BR's carrying capacity.  Freight
traffic is below pre-independence levels while passenger transport has in-
creased considerably due to very low passenger fares and a GOB policy of
priority to passenger traffic. BR is receiving assistance from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), the UK, Saudi Arabia and Canada.
(c) Inland Water Transport
1.08      The length of navigable waterways varies from 2,300 miles in the dry
season to 3,300 miles during the monsoon. Mechanized inland water transport
is provided by the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC) and
by private operators, the latter carrying about 90 percent of passenger and
50 percent of freight traffic. The mechanized fleet is supplemented by about
300,000 country boats of one or two ton average capacity. The Bangladesh
Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) controls the system, regulates
traffic and fares and maintains facilities. Of the BIWTC fleet of some 600
vessels, with a static capacity of about 180,000 tons, some 70 percent will



- 4 -
require extensive repairs within five years; and a program of repair and
replacement is being prepared with the help of specialists provided under an
IDA credit. The private sector, comprising about 600 vessels of 155,000 tons
static capacity, is currently undergoing expansion with GOB help. In 1974/75,
mechanized vessels, state owned and private, carried some 3.5 million tons of
freight and about 40 million passengers though operational efficiency is low.
The inland water transport subsector is receiving assistance from the Nether-
lands and Norway.
(d) Ports and Ocean Shipping
1.09      The two maritime ports of Chittagong and Chalna are operated by the
Chittagong Port Authority and the Port Authority of Chalna. Chittagong has
alongside berthing facilities, though considerable lighterage operations are
required due to draft and length restrictions. In 1977/78, the port handled
5.14 million tons of cargo, a level previously reached only in 1972/73. Port
operations are characterized by poor handling, slow customs procedures and
overcrowded storage and transit sheds. Chalna port is at present operating
as an anchorage but is being developed as a full maritime port despite the
existence of draft restrictions in the Pussur River. In 1977/78 this port
handled 1.78 million tons of cargo. The state-owned Bangladesh Shipping
Corporation (BSC), established in 1972, owns a fleet of 29 vessels, all pur-
chased secondhand, and charters additional ships. In 1976/77., BSC carried
9 percent of total exports and 10 percent of total imports, and GOB policy
is to increase this proportion. The Corporation suffers from shortage of
experienced crews and inadequate maintenance and workshop facilities. The
Chittagong Port Authority has received financial and technical assistance
from the UK, the Netherlands and ADB. The Yugoslav Government has provided
finance for the development of Chalna port while the Chalna-Khulna road is
being constructed with assistance from ADB.
C. Transport Management, Policy and Investment
(a) Management
1.10      In January 1976 GOB reorganized two transport-related ministries
into a new Ministry of Communications (MOC). There was a further reorgani-
zation in December 1977 and the two divisions under MOC were separated into
two ministries, the Ministry of Railways, Roads and Highways, and Road
Transport and the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport.
The Ministries have control over staff appointments and promotions, wages
and salaries and budgets of operating agencies and relevant private sector
activities under their respective jurisdiction. The civil aviation and air-
ports subsector comes under the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism. The
Ministry of Planning is responsible for coordinating transport investments
and policies through the Transport Survey Section and Transport Section. As
part of the 1974 BTS (para. 1.05), which was carried out by the Economist
Intelligence Unit (UK), the Transport Survey Section was established as the



- 5 -
local counterpart for the consultants. From this initial involvement in
transport survey, evolution has led to the Transport Survey Section assuming
responsibility for collecting, processing and providing information on the
transport sector and for preparing medium-term investment programs. The
Transport Section is responsible for reviewing and approving annual develop-
ment programs.
1.11      In addition to these four ministries, certain other ministries have
some responsibility for transport. They include:
-    the Ministry of Finance (MOF) which establishes and collects
taxes including those relating to transport; it also receives
the final accounts from all public transport agencies;
-    The Ministry of Rural Development (MORD) which is responsible
for farm and feeder roads;
-    The Ministry of Industries which controls the imports of various
types of transport equipment for private operators and promotes
or controls local building of such equipment.
1.12      Within the ministries, control is highly centralized, and coopera-
tion between the various ministries and agencies is largely informal. The
prevailing decision making structure suffers from a variety of problems -
many of which are not unique to Bangladesh. Investment priorities are not
clearly defined; qualified and experienced specialists have tended to seek
employment in the private sector and in the Middle East, and political con-
siderations have influenced many investment decisions. The development of
a fully integrated and effective transport planning process is still incom-
plete, and present planning methods still reflect conditions at the time of
independence, when the emphasis was, of necessity, on embarking upon a very
large number of reconstruction projects with priority being given to those
projects for which external finance was most readily available (para 1.14).
(b) Policy and Investment
1.13      In the first Five-Year Plan period (1973/74 - 1977/78), estimated
development expenditures in the transport sector were about Tk 7 billion, at
current prices, or 17% of the total public sector expenditures. In physical
terms, the transport sector is estimated to have achieved 64% of the originally
planned targets. Within the public transport sector, the railways received
about 26% of total investment; roads and road transport, 26%; ports, 14%;
civil aviation and airports, 13%; inland water transport, 10%; and the balance
was allocated to the transport survey and training schools.
1.14      Several problems emerged in the implementation of the first Five-
Year Plan. Firstly, some of the projects were oriented towards capacity
expansion without due consideration to economic priority or the operational
efficiency of the responsible agency. The tendency to assign greater weight
to the procurement of new equipment was reinforced by inadequate allocation
of funds for maintenance expenditures and for the procurement of spare parts,



-6-
and by the high import duty on spares. The position was further exacerbated
by the urgent need to rapidly reestablish a functioning transport system after
the depredations of the war of independence, this need being met most rapidly
by utilization of available foreign exchange for capital items. Second, poli-
tical considerations have frequently influenced investment decisions, and
scarce funds and experienced personnel have been spread over a very large
number of projects (para 1.12). As a result, execution by GOB of many proj-
ects has been extremely slow. The effects of spreading resources too thinly
was emphasized in the Bangladesh Transport Survey (para 1.05). As a result,
work has, in fact, been suspended indefinitely on a number of road projects.
Finally, although the private sector plays an important role in road and
inland water transport, its access to foreign exchange and local currency
credit has been severely limited. Over the period 1973/74-1977/78, only
Tk 1.7 billion was invested in transport by the private sector. However, the
growing importance of the private sector in the overall context of transport-
ation is receiving increasing recognition by GOB, and present government
policy is to actively encourage greater private participation.
1.15      GOB regulates passenger fares on all modes.  The passenger fares
on railways have been controlled at below cost, encouraging high rates of
growth in passenger traffic and diverting the limited capacity away from
freight traffic. Passenger fares on buses have been set at such levels that
an adequate return can only be earned by overcrowding existing buses. Freight
rates on the railways and for strategic commodities on inland water transport
are regulated by GOB. Other freight rates are determined by market forces.
The combination of government controls over tariffs and the low operational
efficiency of public transport agencies has resulted in the poor financial
performance of these agencies - the ensuing lack of funds for proper main-
tenance has further exacerbated the problems of operational efficiency.
1.16      The short-term sector strategy as expressed in the two-year plan
(1978/79 - 1979/80) is to:
(i) Complete the rehabilitation program of railways and roads;
(ii) Complete and commission the ongoing projects of the rail-
ways, roads, CPA, PCA and civil aviation that are in
advanced stages of implementation;
(iii) Improve operational efficiency of various transport agencies
through completion of maintenance workshops, training centers,
safety and navigational facilities; and
(iv) Encourage private investment in mechanized and non-mechanized
road and water transport.
The plan is to allocate about Tk 4.5 billion (about US$300 million) during
the plan period or about 13.8% of the total development outlay.



-7-
D. Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.17      Given the extensive involvement of the ADB and other bilateral
agencies in the transport sector, IDA assistance is limited -" the highway
and inland water transport subsectors through the First Highway Project
(Credit 408-BD) and the First and Second Inland Water Transport Projects
(Credits 424-BD and 735-BD). However, IDA is also financing minor road
development in some agriculture and fisheries projects, where this is
important to the achievement of project objectives.
1.18      The highway project (Credit 408-BD, US$25.0 million), approved in
1973, reactivated a 1964 road project (Credit 53-PAK). Execution has been
very slow because of the lack of suitable materials, poor performance of
government-supplied equipment, the reluctance of contractors to bid for work
in Bangladesh, the use of inexperienced local contractors, and delays in
agreeing on the design and location of the new Highways Department Head-
quarters building. Given these problems, and rapid price escalation, the
scope of the project, originally planned for upgrading the whole of the Dacca-
Chittagong road, had to be drastically curtailed. Of the three major compo-
nents of the project, one, the Sitalakhya bridge, was completed and opened
to traffic in December 1977; the second, Feni bypass is substantially complete
and open to traffic; and the third, the RHD headquarters building, is expec-
ted to be ready for occupancy by the end of December 1979. Many of the
delays in implementation, which resulted in extension of the credit closing
date from December 1977 to December 1979, were encountered during the first
few years of execution, but there has been significant improvement in per-
formance over the past year. The project, a detailed history of which is
given in Chapter III, will be completed by December 1979.
1.19      The First Inland Water Transport Project (Credit 424-BD, US$4.1
million), approved in 1973, provides for urgently needed spare parts and
equipment, and a supplementary credit (US$4.6 million) was approved in 1975
to finance an alternative oil transfer system at Chittagong. The Second Inland
Water Transport Project (Credit 735-BD, US$5.0 million), approved in July 1977,
provides for spare parts, materials and equipment and for technical assistance
to strengthen planning, accounting and operational capabilities of agencies
involved in the inland water transport sector.
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network and Highway Traffic
2.01      Bangladesh has a poorly developed highway network with much of the
4,200 mile main-road network consisting of unconnected stretches requiring
ferry services across the numerous rivers. The main-road system administered
by Roads and Highways Department (RHD) comprises approximately 2,700 miles of
bitumen-surfaced road and 1,500 miles of fair-weather road. The minor road



- 8 -
network is maintained by local authorities such as district councils, muni-
cipalities, and thanas.
2.02      The predominantly flat and low-lying topography of Bangladesh with
its many rivers requires that all-weather roads be built on high embankments
with extensive drainage structures to preclude inundation during annual monsoon
floods. The deltaic origin of the country is reflected in severe shortage of
good road-building materials. These two factors have led to high construction
and maintenance costs.
2.03      Most paved roads have been built since 1947, but they were con-
structed for much lower traffic levels than presently exist. Roads are
frequently of single carriageway width, on low standard horizontal align-
ments and with earthworks and pavement inadequate to carry the traffic loads
now imposed upon them. The results are low-average traffic speeds, high
operating costs and the need for major maintenance inputs. Many bridges are
too narrow and have substantial load limitations.
2.04      Official statistical information on the motor vehicle fleet is not
reliable, and published data are inconsistent. These inconsistencies were
recognized by BTS and were largely eliminated in the 1978 review and updating.
The BTS statistics on the number of vehicles on the road are shown in Table 1.
The motor vehicle fleet at the end of 1977, the most recent date for which
reliable figures are available, totalled about 76,700 including about 21,500
automobiles; 9,800 trucks; 7,500 buses and 26,700 motorcycles. The remainder
of the fleet comprises mainly auto-rickshaws and tractors and trailers. The
present vehicle fleet is equivalent to an average of one vehicle for 1,100
persons, with trucks at one for 8,700 persons and buses at one for 11,300
persons. The potential for major fleet growth is obvious. Trucks of carrying
capacity from 2-1/2 to 8 tons are in common use with the average diesel truck
having a nominal capacity of 5-1/2 tons 1/. The present legal maximum gross
vehicle weight is 18,600 lbs.
2.05      There are no motor vehicle manufacturers in Bangladesh, though one
public industry assembles both buses and trucks. Taxes and duties on importa-
tion of vehicles are 40% for trucks and buses and 110% to 300% for automobiles,
depending on engine size, with taxes and duties on spares standing at about 100%.
2.06      Traffic counting and compilation of traffic statistics is the respon-
sibility of RHD. In theory, simple four-day counts are carried out annually on
all roads under RHD jurisdiction and are supplemented by three-day origin and
destination surveys carried out twice a year on twelve major roads. In
practice, traffic counts have been sporadic with intervals of three-to-five
years between simple counts and with successive counts on the same road fre-
quently being taken at significantly different points 2/. This problem will
be addressed under a road maintenance, improvement and rehabilitation project
to be developed from the findings of the ongoing Maintenance Improvement and
1/   BTS, "Review and Updating, Analysis and Conclusions", November 1977.
2/   Source:  RHD Annual Traffic Survey Report 1968 to 1978.



-9 -
Rehabilitation Study (MIRS). The main body of data from which meaningful
comparisons may be drawn covers the period 1973/1977. Analysis of data from
eleven census stations for this period shows an average increase in bus and
truck traffic of approximately 7% p.a. and 9% p.a., respectively, and a
decline in cars of 1% p.a.
B. Administration
2.07      Administration of the principal road network is the responsibility
of RHD which is part of the Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and Road
Transport (MRRHRT) (Charts WB 20419 and 20402). The Ministry controls budget,
salaries and staff appointments and promotions up to the level of Additional
Chief Engineer and is responsible for issue of route permits for trucks and
buses. Planning of the road and road transport subsectors is the responsi-
bility of the Planning Commission of the Ministry of Planning.
2.08      RHD, which was established in 1962, is responsible for road design,
construction and maintenance and for the installation and operation of truck,
car and passenger ferries, with further ferries being operated by BIWTC. The
Chief Engineer, who is the chief executive of RHD and reports to the Secretary
of MRRHRT, is assisted by five Additional Chief Engineers, one Deputy Chief
Engineer and the Director of the Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory. RHD has
an established staff of some 500 engineers of various grades and has approxi-
mately 450 diploma engineers in additional non-established posts. Salaries
of engineers in government service are low; and the existence of large numbers
of relatively highly paid posts abroad, particularly in the Middle East, has
attracted many of the more experienced engineers away from RHD. This has
resulted in a lowering of the average experience level of RHD employees and
has inevitably adversely affected the Department's level of performance.
2.09      Efficient administration of RHD has, in the past, been severely
hampered by lack of suitable headquarters accommodation necessitating the
wide dispersal of staff in a large number of offices throughout Dacca. This
has led to communications difficulties and loss of necessary interaction
between the various sub-departments. The result has been a lack of cohesion
within RHD which has contributed to the current below-average morale of staff.
The situation will be improved by the end of 1979 when RHD moves into the
new headquarters building being financed under Credit 408-BD.
C. Planning and Financing
(a) Planning
2.10      Road network master planning is the responsibility of the Planning
Commission through its Transport Survey Section. The principal source of
data on which to base master planning is embodied in the Bangladesh Transport
Survey (BTS), published in 1974 and updated in 1978 (para 1.05). In December
1977, the Transport Survey Section commenced preparation of a Road Network



- 10 -
Master Plan which is now nearing completion. Pending completion and adoption
of the master plan, and given the frequent urgent need to reinstate or rebuild
roads damaged or washed away during the severe monsoon floods, construction or
improvement of individual roads and road sections has had to be undertaken on
an ad hoc basis.
2.11      In December 1978, GOB, through RHD, commissioned consultants to
study requirements for maintenance and improvement of the existing road and
ferry network. This study, known as the Road Maintenance, Improvement and
Rehabilitation Study (MIRS) is being financed under IDA Credil 622-BD and has
as its principal objective the identification of high-prioritv investment
needs in road and ferry maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement, consist-
ent with the Government's development strategy.
2.12      The study, terms of reference for wlhich are shown in Annex IV, is
being carried out in two phases. Phase I, which will be reviewed by GOB and
IDA, primarily comprises review and analysis of existing road data and exam-
ination of RHD's responsibilities and capabilities. Phase II, the precise
orientation of which will be determined after review of Phase I, will priori-
tise physical and institutional requirements and will identify elements suit-
able for external financing. It was originally envisaged that the study
would result in identification of a project providing continuity of IDA
assistance when Credit 408-BD comes to an end in December 1979. Considerable
delays have, however, been experienced in execution of the study. The final
Phase I report will now be presented in December 1979. Following review of
this report, work on Phase II will commence in January 1980, and the Phase II
draft report will be completed in July 1980, with the final report expected
in October 1980. After discussions between GOB and IDA on the priority
investment requirements identified in the report, and the suitability of
those requirements for IDA financing, an appropriate project is expected to
be prepared by early 1981.
2.13      The draft Phase I report, though requiring some modification, indi-
cated a likely project embracing maintenance, improvement and rehabilitation
with improvement of the Dacca-Comilla road (including the Chandina section)
being of the highest priority.
(b) Financing
2.14      Financing of capital and recurrent costs of major roads is by
central government, funds being channeled to RHD through MRRHRT. Total ex-
penditures for roads increased rapidly from 1973-74 to 1976-77 before declin-
ing slightly in 1977-78. Allocations for 1978/79 at about US$48 million
equivalent show an increase of about 23% over the 1976-77 expenditures. Of
the US$48 million equivalent allocated for 1978/79, some US$39 million is
for capital works and US$9.0 million for maintenance. Of the allocation for
capital works, some US$6.3 million equivalent (16% of the total) is derived
from external aid of which IDA financing for the First Highway Project accounts
for about US$1.6 million.



- 11 -
2.15      The allocation for capital works is insufficient to adequately
fund all of the projects in hand. As a result, progress on many domestically
financed projects is seriously delayed by shortage of funds and some incomplete
projects have been suspended. No shortage of counterpart funds has been
experienced under the First Highway Project (Credit 408-BD). However, a
number of minor domestically financed capital projects are executed through
the use of maintenance funds with a consequent reduction in the general scope
and efficiency of maintenance operations. This unofficial reallocation of
financial resources is facilitated by the utilization of common human and
physical resources for both maintenance and force account capital works (para
2.27).
2.16      Details of highway expenditures since 1973-74 are as shown below:
Capital and Recurrent Expenditure for Roads 1972-79
(million Takas)
1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79 /a
Capital Expenditure
Construction and
Tmprovement              165.0    214.0    324.7   496.0    442.7    607.5
(US$ m Equivalent)       (10.6)   (13.8)   (20.9)  (32.0)   (28.6)   (39.2)
Recurrent Expenditure
Maintenance               48.5      71.0     90.0   112.7    147.2    138.3
(US$ m Equivalent)        (3.1)    (4.6)    (5.8)   (7.3)    (9.5)    (8.9)
Total                 213.5    285.0    414.7   608.7    589.9    745.8
(US$ m Equivalent)      (13.7)   (18.4)   (26.7)  (39.3)   (38.1)   (48.1)
/a   Budget allocations.
D. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
(a) Engineering
2.17      RHD is responsible for the technical aspects of road projects.
Feasibility studies are generally carried out by foreign consultants. Some
studies are, however, carried out by the staff of the Additional Chief
Engineer, Planning, RHD (Chart WB 20420). Detailed engineering of roads
financed through external aid is normally carried out by foreign consultants
as was the case with the First Highway Project and as is the case with the
proposed Second Highway Project. Although rudimentary design standards were
proposed in BTS, no formal standardized basis for design has been generally
adopted. Design standards for any given project depend, therefore, on the
professional judgment of the designer and of the staff of RHD. Phase I of
the MIRS requires the consultants to review road design capabilities, stand-
ards and facilities. Areas requiring improvement will be considered for
inclusion in a possible third highway project (paras 2.12 and 2.29).



- 12 -
(c) Construction
2.18       Road construction is normally executed by contractors through unit-
price contracts.  Most contract work is carried out by domestic contractc,r,
and the strengthening of the domestic construction industry is seen as a high
priority by both the Government and the Bank, and IDA has agreed to finance
consultancy services to help GOB attain the following objectives:
(a)  Development of a long-term strategy to improve the volume
and quality of the industry's output and to bring it in
line with total demand through rational resource allocation
and planned increase in capacity and efficiency; and
(b) Development of a short-term program focusing on resolution
of issues which will directly and immediately improve opera-
tions of the industry and, in particular, its contracting
sector.
2.19       Construction costs are generally high due to the need for roads to
be built on high embankments, the requirement for extensive drainage struc-
tures, and the shortage of good road-building materials (para 2.02).
2.20       Traditionally domestic contractors engaged on road construction
rely upon RHD to provide the plant and equipment needed to execut:e the work.
This is seen as a constraint on the development of an efficient and indepen-
dent construction industry.  The terms of reference for the proposed construc-
tion industry review (para 2.18) call for examination of contract:ors' plant
needs and formulation of recommendations to meet those needs in t:he most
feasible and practical manner. Among the alternatives to be examined is the
establishment of a contractors' service organization and an equipment pool
from which contractors could acquire equipment on a hire-purchase basis.
2.21       Construction work carried out in the past has frequently been of
poor quality and has been extremely slow in execution due to one or more of
the following failings:
(a) lack of experience of domestic contractors in executing
adequate-standard work, under strict supervision to a
rigid time schedule;
(b) inadequate or low-standard construction specifications;
(c)  inability of RHD to provide and maintain in good working
order necessary construction plant and equipment; and
(d) inadequate supervision.
2.22      These weaknesses were reflected in the construction of the Feni
bypass, financed under Credit 408-BD. However, through utilization of speci-
fications of an appropriate standard and through intensive supervision and
guidance provided by consultants, domestic contractors have achieved a fully
acceptable standard of work--the quality of bridgeworks in particular has been



- 13 -
very high. Thus, given intensive supervision and guidance by consultants and
the use of appropriate specifications, achievement of satisfactory rates of
progress by domestic contractors depends upon:
(a) supply and maintenance of sufficient equipment by RHD; and
(b) matching of contract size and complexity to the contractors'
organizational, managerial and financial capabilities.
2.23      The equipment and spares components of the proposed project will,
together with the suitable RHD equipment already identified, ensure that
sufficient equipment is available for timely execution of construction. The
subdivision of the relatively simple construction work into five sections
will ensure that the organizational, managerial and financial capabilities
of domestic contractors are not unduly strained. The growing understanding
by RHD personnel of their vital role in support of project construction has
been a major factor in the improvement of Feni bypass progress exhibited
during the past year.
(d) Maintenance
2.24      RHD is responsible for maintenance of major roads totalling some
4,200 miles. Most major roads have been built to standards unsuited to
present traffic levels, being of inadequate width and insufficient strength.
The result is that many of these roads are near failure; and strengthening,
widening or rehabilitation is taking precedence over maintenance. Funds
allocated for maintenance are being utilized for urgently needed improvements
thus exacerbating the problems inherent in attempting to maintain already
inadequate facilities with limited funds. The MIRS will address this problem
and will formulate a strategy for its resolution (para 2.12).
2.25      Responsibility for maintenance and domestically financed capital
works falls under the Additional Chief Engineer, Operations, who is assisted
by two Deputy Chief Engineers--one for the eastern half of the country and
one for the western half. The Deputy Chief Engineers carry out maintenance
through the activities of nine circles, each comprising four or five divisions
of which one is a mechanical division (Chart WB 20420).
2.26      Periodic maintenance and improvement are carried out in part by
force account operations and in part through contract. Routine maintenance
is carried out through force account.
2.27      Personnel and equipment in circles and divisions are employed on
both maintenance and domestically financed capital works with no apparent
organizational differentiation between the two operations. The adequacy of
equipment available for maintenance, together with the adequacy of equipment
maintenance and repair facilities and procedures are currently being studied
under MIRS. The approximately 500 engineers and diploma engineers falling
under the Additional Chief Engineer, Operations, is a sufficiently large
number to handle both a reasonable development program and maintenance of
4,200 miles of road.



- 14 -
2.28      Expenditures on routine and periodic maintenance since 1973/74 are
as follows:
Maintenance Expenditure
Year                               Routine         Periodic
(million Takas)
1973-74                                     48.5 /a
1974-75                                     71.0 /a
1975-76                                     90.0 /a
1976-77                                    112.7 /a
1977-78                             102.2            45.0
1978-79                              84.8 /b         53.5 /b
/a  No differentiation between routine and periodic.
/b Budget allocation.
2.29      The 1978-79 allocations show approximately US$1,100 per mile for
routine maintenance plus US$700 per mile for periodic requirements. The rela-
tionship between maintenance expenditure and expenditures on improvement will
be examined through MIRS which will recommend an appropriate maintenance
strategy and derive funding requirements. The MIRS recommendations, after
being agreed by GOB and IDA, will provide the principal input for a major
component of a Third Highway Project scheduled for FY81.
III. THE FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      In 1960/61, a comprehensive transportation survey of what was then
East Pakistan was carried out by Transportation Consultants, Inc. (TCI) for
USAID. Based on the findings of this survey, USAID assisted the Government
of Pakistan (GOP) with preparation by consultants of feasibility studies of
the main road network. A number of these feasibility studies, completed in
late 1963, were analyzed and discussed by USAID and IDA to determine whether
or not the potential projects merited financing. As a result of these dis-
cussions, it was agreed that two projects should be further considered by
the agencies: the Dacca-Chittagong road by IDA; and the Dacca-Aricha road
by USAID.
3.02      Arising from this agreement, an IDA mission appraised the Dacca-
Chittagong road project in November 1963 and found it to be of the highest
priority. As a result, a credit (Credit 53-PAK, US$22.5 million) was approved
on June 11, 1964. The project comprised: completion of 135 miles of the
150-mile highway between Dacca and Chittagong, including bypasses to severely
congested towns and a bridge over the Sitalakhya River near Dacca; construc-
tion of a 5-mile link from southwest of Dacca to Narayanganj; employment of
management consultants; employment of consultants for the detailed design
and supervision of the project; and employment of consultants for further



-15 -
feasibility studies. Construction work was to be divided into a relatively
small number of large contracts which were expected to be carried out by for-
eign contractors. Allowing one year for completion of contract documents
and mobilization and four years for construction, the closing date for the
credit was set at December 31, 1969.
3.03      Completion of the necessary detailed design work was delayed by the
Indo-Pakistan conflict of 1965, and problems were experienced in acquiring
the necessary land. Project costs were reestimated in 1966-67 on the basis
of detailed designs and were found to be 65 percent higher than the original
estimates, due to additional bridge and culvert requirements, increased
construction quantities and increased prices. As a result of these cost
increases, the scope of construction work under the project was reduced in
1968 to: Dacca-Demra including Narayanganj extension; Sitalakhya Bridge;
Daudkhandi-Chandina-Comilla including necessary bypasses; Feni bypass; mis-
cellaneous bridges; and connections to Chittagong port and city. The revised
project now covered only 70 miles of the original 135 miles of the Dacca-
Chittagong road, plus the 5-mile Narayanganj link, but the credit amount
remained unchanged.
3.04      Tendering for the modified project revealed little international
contractors interest, and very few bids were received. Tender documents
were revised in an effort to reduce contractor risk and to increase bidding
interest, and rebids were called. This second invitation to bid produced
only two tenders for Sitalakhya bridge and the Feni bypass bridges and no
bids for the roadworks. Contracts for construction of the Sitalkhya bridge
and the Feni bypass bridges were awarded in April and May 1970, respectively,
the Sitalakhya bridge contract being won by a foreign contractor and the
Feni bypass bridges by a domestic contractor. No contract award for road-
works was possible due to lack of tenderers. Because the earthworks required
under the project exceeded the capacity of local industry to complete the
job within an acceptable time, the scope of road construction under the credit
was further reduced in April 1970 from 75 miles to 35 miles, with the balance,
including the Comilla and Chandina sections, to be improved by RHD on force
account. The amount of the credit remained unchanged, but the construction
work under the project had now been reduced to: Dacca-Demra including
Narayanganj extension; Sitalakhya bridge; Feni bypass; and six bridges on the
Feni-Chittagong road. Special emphasis was given in the revised project to
improving the capability of local contractors by providing advisory services
and by permitting contractors to hire or purchase government-owned construc-
tion equipment.
3.05      From about April 1971, it became increasingly difficult for contrac-
tors to work, due to military activities and the resultant dislocation of
essential services, these difficulties being particularly acute at the Feni
bypass site which was very close to the border with India. Although, between
July and September 1971, five contracts were awarded, to four local contractors
and one foreign firm, for construction of embankments and small structures
on Feni bypass, no construction progress was made on these contracts before
all work was halted in November 1971 by the war of independence. At the time
all work was stopped, the only real progress had been in construction of the
Sitalakhya bridge where three of the seven piers had been partially completed.



- 16 -
B. Credit 408-BD
3.06      After attaining independence, GOB requested a new credit to ieaLi
vate the project and, following a number of missions to reappraise and further
refine the project components, Credit 408-BD, for US$25.0 million equivalent
(including US$3.6 million previously disbursed under Credit 53-PAK), was
signed on June 20, 1973.
3.07      Credit 408-BD, whilst having the same fundamental objec:ive as the
earlier Credit 53-PAK, that is to improve the Dacca-Chittagong road, showed
a number of changes from the earlier project. The project now comprised:
(a) construction of a 20-mile bypass at Feni (reduced from 24
miles);
(b) repair of the war-damaged Surma River bridge at Sylhet;
(c) completion of construction of the Sitalakhya bridge;
(d) construction of a new headquarters building for RHD;
(e) improvement of ferries on the Dacca-Chittagong road;
(f)  provision of spare parts, tools and workshop facilities; and
(g) provision of consultancy services.
The changes in detailed project structure reflected recognition of two fund-
amental issues: firstly, the constraint imposed upon efficient RHD opera-
tions by lack of a headquarters building, with resultant dispersal of staff
into a large number of offices scattered throughout Dacca; and, second, the
need to improve RHD's capability to maintain and repair its plant and equip-
ment.
3.08      At the time of signing of the credit, it was envisaged that con-
struction would commence in October 1973 and be completed in 3-1/2 construc-
tion seasons by the end of 1976. The credit closing date was accordingly
set at December 31, 1977.
3.09      Construction of the Sitalakhya bridge and Feni bypass embankments,
bridges and culverts was to be through reactivation of contracts suspended
at the end of 1971 (paras 3.05 and 3.06); and, in September 1973 following
lengthy negotiations, contracts were renegotiated with the original foreign
contractor for the Sitalakhya bridge and with three domestic contractors for
Feni bypass. Of the five contractors originally appointed for Feni bypass,
one domestic contractor no longer existed and the sole foreign contractor
declined to reactivate his contract. Two of the three renegotiated contracts
for Feni bypass were small, but the third was large and complex by Bangladesh
standards, amounting to some 37 million takas and including three major
bridges as well as embankment construction. Completion dates and contract
periods for these three contracts were:



- 17 -
Contract II-1 (earthworks and culverts): May 31, 1975 (2 construction seasons)
Contract II-2 (earthworks and culverts): July 31, 1975 (2 construction
seasons)
Contract II-3 (earthworks, culverts
and major bridges)       : April 30, 1976 (3 construction
seasons)
Since paving was to be executed by separate contract after completion of earth-
works, it was essential that these completion dates be met in order for all
construction to be completed by the end of 1976 (para 3.08).
3.10      Serious implementation problems were encountered on the Feni bypass
from the outset. Contractor organization and management were weak, and
resource mobilization was extremely slow. RHD was unable to provide, main-
tain and repair an adequate quantity of construction equipment and, during
the first construction season, difficulty was experienced in obtaining right-
of-way and in procuring essential construction materials. At the end of the
first construction season, progress was negligible and, although land and
materials procurement problems diminished, after two full construction seasons
work on the bypass was only about 29 percent complete. By far the worst
problems were being experienced on Contract II-3--the largest and most com-
plex of the three contracts.
3.11      Some improvement in contract management and organization was brought
about by the intensive efforts of RHD and the supervising consultants, and
progress on the two smaller contracts reached an acceptable level in the third
season. The largest contract, however, continued to fall further behind pro-
gram, and shortage of adequate plant continued to be a major constraint on
progress for all contracts.
3.12      In June 1977, Contract 11-1 was closed out with only 87 percent of
the work completed, since the contractor had made virtually no progress in
the preceeding year. The balance of work remaining on thiq contract was
transferred to Contract II-2 where progress had been consistently better.
In October 1977, Sitalakhya bridge, built by foreign contractors and rela-
tively free from the problems besetting Feni bypass, was satisfactorily
completed. Contract II-2 was successfully completed in January 1978 and,
during the 1977-78 construction season, progress on Contract II-3 improved
dramatically. The reason for this improvement on Contract II-3 is a com-
bination of improved management brought about largely by advice and assistance
given through intensive supervision, together with the increased technical
expertise being built up by the contractor through execution of the work.
This contract was completed in March 1979.
3.13      As the earthworks and bridging contracts neared completion, it
was possible to commence paving and a contract for the paving work was awarded
to a domestic contractor in January 1978. The contract period was 406 days,
and the scheduled completion date was April 30, 1979. As with the earlier
contracts, the contractor was slow to mobilize, suffered from weak organiza-
tion and management and, by the end of the first construction season, had
accomplished only 2 percent of the work required under the contract.  RHD



- 18 -
had been unable to provide the contractor with adequate plant and a highly
contentious issue emerged as to whether the poor progress was due to lack
of plant or to poor organization and management. IDA agreed to alleviate
the chronic equipment shortage by sanctioning procurement of five dump
trucks and a wheeled loader but, when work resumed in October 1978, the
contractor still lacked any effective site management and direction. Finally,
in December 1978, the contractor yielded to the intensive pressure which had
been exerted by RHD, the consultants and IDA, and strengthened his site
management staff and simultaneously introduced a number of key plant opera-
tors and technicians. These improvements, together with close monitoring
of progress and detailed work planning in which all parties were involved,
resulted in a dramatic increase in productivity and led to substantial com-
pletion of the paving work in June 1979.
3.14      Repairs to the Surma River bridge and improvement of ferries on
the Dacca-Chittagong road were completed early in the credit period, and
construction of the RHD headquarters, despite initial delays, is proceeding
satisfactorily. The project will be completed by December 1979.
Problems and Lessons
3.15      Execution of the first highway project revealed many major problems,
resolution of which would be essential to successful implementation of any
future highways project in Bangladesh. These problems, many of which are
inter-related, and the possible solutions are discussed in detail and analyzed
below:
(a) Short construction season. The fact that the main con-
struction season lasts for only about seven months means
that, each construction season, contractors must be
organized to commence work at full speed the moment the
rains finish. There is no time for a slow build-up to
peak efficiency since much of the season would be lost
before the peak is reached. This is particularly cri-
tical in the first season, and it is essential that an
adequate lead time be allowed between contract award and
the start of the first construction season. The proposed
project makes such allowance;
(b)  Contractor capability and experience.  The capability and
experience of domestic contractors are limited, and the
industry is in its infancy. There is a grave shortage of
competent and experienced contract administrators capable
of dealing successfully with large contracts or with major
and complex implementation problems. Contracts should be
relatively small and as simple as possible, as is the case
with the proposed project. Such implementation problems as
can be identified in advance should be solved before contract
award, leaving contractors to concentrate only on solution
of problems which could not reasonably have been foreseen.
Additional contract management expertise must be provided
through appropriate contract supervision arrangements and
an environment must be created wherein the contractor, the



- 19 -
supervision agency, and the government work closely together
to produce the optimum result with the minimum conflict. The
required additional management expertise can, at present, be
provided only by competent and experienced consultants and
appropriate provision is made in the proposed project. The
time allowed for construction should be such that a relatively
inexperienced contractor can, with reasonable effort, achieve
timely completion and is not faced with what is, in effect,
an impossible task.  The proposed project allows adequate
time.
(c)  Domestic contractors are not yet in a position to execute
contracts without hiring most, if not all, of their con-
struction plant from RHD. The shortage of plant in the
RHD fleet, together with lack of adequate service and
repair facilities during the first two years of the con-
struction period of the First Highway Project, placed a
critical constraint on the contractors and seriously
detracted from any benefits they could have gained from
efficient site management and planning. In such circum-
stances, it was extremely difficult to persuade contrac-
tors to expend time and effort in effective contract
management. A second, but equally important, effect of
the unsatisfactory plant position was on the attitude
of RHD staff. The fact that RHD was unable to provide
and maintain the necessary plant brought about continuous
criticism from the contractors.  RHD recognized that much
of this criticism was valid, but RHD engineers were power-
less to rectify the situation. As a result, RHD morale
suffered, tensions built up between contractors, con-
sultants and RHD; and RHD engineers were unable to play
their full part in execution of the work. The proposed
project addresses these problems through early identifi-
cation of equipment requirements, earmarking of suitable
available plant and provision for timely procurement of
the balance of the required machinery.
Conclusions
3.16      Domestic contractors are capable of high-standard work but require
intensive supervision, improved site management and optimum support through
provision and maintenance of adequate construction equipment.  The size, com-
plexity and timing of contracts must be carefully tailored to the implementa-
tion capabilities of an industry which is still in its infancy.



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
4.01      As detailed in Chapter III, the First Highway Project eventually
encompassed only a small part of the Dacca-Chittagong road, despite the
fact that the whole road was identified in 1963 as being of the highest
priority. The time taken to implement the first project has not diminished
the importance of the road, and the severe traffic constraints imposed by
the congested towns of Comilla and Chandina have intensified as traffic
has increased. Although solution of such problems will form part of the
master plan now under preparation (para 2.10), the nature of the solution
to the problems at Comilla and Chandina--the construction of bypasses--lends
itself to immediate implementation without jeopardizing future strategy.
Designs exist, the necessary land has been acquired, the First Highway Project
is virtually completed, and the high priority of the road has been reconfirmed
by the draft Phase I report of MIRS. GOB has accordingly requested IDA to
finance the proposed project.
4.02      RHD engineers have gained valuable experience from the difficulties
faced in the first project but, for further development of their administrative
and engineering expertise, need to participate in a project successful imple-
mentation of which more directly reflects the quality of their input. Further
development of domestic contractors' ability and RHD expertise is considered
necessary for successful implementation of more complex projects such as that
envisaged for the possible third highway project (paras 2.12, 2.17 and 2.29).
4.03      The proposed project:  fully reflects the lessons learned from exe-
cution of the First Highway Project (para 3.15); meets a high-priority need
(para 4.01); and provides the opportunity for further development of RHD
expertise and contractor capability which will be needed for the possible
third highway project which is expected to start in two years' time (paras
2.12, 2.17 and 4.02).
4.04      The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)  further reduce transport costs between the principal
port of Chittagong and the main areas of production
and consumption by improving the Comilla and Chandina
road sections; and
(b)  further develop the implementation capability of RHD.
B. Project Description
4.05      The project comprises:
(a)  the construction of two bypasses, 12.5 miles and 2.2
miles long, around the towns of Comilla and Chandina
on the Dacca-Chittagong road;



(b) the provision of mechanical equipment and spare parts
for construction work of (a) above; and
(c) the provision of consultancy services for construction
supervision.
The location of the road sections proposed for construction are shown on
IBRD Map 14384R.
(a) Construction of Bypasses
4.06      Each of the proposed bypasses would provide a two-lane road com-
pletely bypassing the town as an alternative route for through traffic. The
average daily volumes of heavy vehicles (adt) expected to use the bypasses in
the first year after opening are about 750 trucks and 90 buses. The geometric
standards of the bypasses are compatible with maintenance of an acceptable
level of service for at least 20 years whilst the pavements are designed to
be strengthened by bituminous overlay after about 5 years and to perform
without further overlay for 15 years thereafter. During negotiations, GOB
agreed that the necessary overlay would be constructed when required and that
before December 31, 1982, a date would be agreed by GOB and IDA for such
construction. The routes taken by the bypasses are flat, and both roads will
be on embankment throughout their length to avoid inundation during the annual
monsoon floods. It is understood that the land required for both bypasses
has already been acquired. During negotiations, GOB confirmed that this land
acquisition had been completed and that GOB would acquire or otherwise make
available, in a timely manner, such other land as may be required for the
temporary use of contractors and for access to the sites of the works.
4.07      The detailed design of the two bypasses was originally carried out
by Messrs. Ammann & Whitney (US), consulting engineers, early in the 1960s
as part of the design of the Dacca-Chittagong road which was to have been
constructed under Credit 53-PAK (para 3.02). The original cross-section,
comprising a 22-ft carriageway with two 9-ft shoulders, is still valid, but
the shoulders are considered unnecessarily wide for the volume and type of
traffic now forecast. A reduction in shoulder width to 7 ft will produce
approximately 10% savings in earthworks cost without prejudicing expected
benefits. The original pavement design incorporated a 2-inch thick asphaltic
concrete wearing course which is expensive and is not at present justified by
traffic volumes and axle loading. It is proposed that a much cheaper wearing
course consisting of a thin carpet of precoated stone equivalent in perform-
ance to a double-surface treatment, be adopted. This type of wearing course
is in common use in Bangladesh and performs satisfactorily. Modification
of designs and preparation of contract documents have been carried out by
Ammann & Whitney who are assisting RHD in the execution of the ongoing
highway project (Credit 408-BD) and who had all necessary background infor-
mation. This modification and preparation was financed from the provision
for Consultancy Services in Credit 408-BD. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the modified design standards would be applied to the construc-
tion of the bypasses.



- 22 -
4.08      Comilla Bypass.   The town of Comilla is located some 53 miles east
of the capital, Dacca, on Ehe only road directly linking Dacca to the prin-
cipal port of Chittagong. The road from Sylhet to Chittagong joins the Dacca-
Chittagong road at a point some 4 miles to the west of Comilla. The existing
13.5 mile road through Comilla comprises three basic sections- a length of
approximately 3 miles of rural road west of the town; 3.5 miles of urban road
through the town and a further 7 miles of rural road east of the town. Among
the deficiencies noted are: narrow pavement (18 ft); poor horizontal align-
ment; failed pavement of excessive roughness; lack of sidewalks in much of the
urban section; close proximity of urban roadside development to carriageway
edge. Motorized traffic, which predominantly comprises trucks and buses, is
in severe conflict with pedestrians and bicycLe rickshaws.
4.09      Chandina Bypass.  The town of Chandina is located some 42 miles east
of the capital, Dacca, on the Dacca-Chittagong road. The existing 2.4 mile
road through Chandina is inadequate for motorized traffic. Inr addition to
deficiencies noted for the road through Comilla, the Chandina road has exces-
sive curvature and inadequate sight distance.
(b) Provision of Mechanical Equipment and Spare Parts
4.10      Achievement of a satisfactory rate and quality of construction will
be dependent upon availability of appropriate plant for earthworks compaction
and pavement construction. Such plant is traditionally provided to contractors
by RHD. RHD does not, however, have sufficient construction plant in reliable
operating condition to enable a contractor to perform in an efficient and
expeditious manner. Much of the plant owned by RHD has reached the end of
its working life, and is subject to frequent breakdowns. The proposed project
includes the provision of construction equipment to a value of US$1.65 million
which will be sufficient to ensure that construction is not delayed through
lack of equipment or through utilization of inadequate or unreliable equipment.
In addition, provision has been made in the proposed project for a small
quantity of priority spare parts (US$60,000) for existing RHD equipment in
good working order and available for use on the proposed construction. RHD
is currently being assisted by Messrs. Ammann & Whitney in the preparation
of equipment specifications. During negotiations, GOB agreed that all plant,
equipment and spares procured with the proceeds of the proposed Credit would
be used only on the proposed project until the project is completed. Assurances
were also obtained from GOB that the plant and equipment to be provided by RHD
would be made available in a timely manner and all plant and equipment would
be properly maintained and repaired by RHD in such a way as to avoid any delay
to the construction work.
4.11      Equipment hire rates currently charged by RHD have not been revised
as plant and spares costs have increased. These hire charges are therefore
too low to reflect the true cost to GOB of hiring equipment to contractors.
In order to redress this anomaly, during negotiations it was agreed that all
plant and equipment hired by RHD to contractors would be hired at realistic
and economically justified rates agreed between RHD and IDA. RHD has con-
firmed that it will make available adequate numbers of suitable operators for
operation of all equipment supplied to contractors.



- 23 -
4.12      The types of equipment to be procured are all suitable for the
normal construction, reconstruction and maintenance operations of RHD and
will, on completion of the proposed project, help to make good part of RHD's
present general equipment shortage.
(c) Consultancy Services for Construction Supervision
4.13      High-quality supervision by consultants is a prerequisite for suc-
cessful project implementation. The proposed project would, therefore,
provide for a total of about 234 man-months of engineering time and 848
man-months of non-professional support staff time. The average cost of
engineering time is estimated to be US$2,900 per man-month ranging from
US$8,900 for senior expatriate staff to US$550 for Bangladesh nationals.
The average cost of support staff is estimated to be US$210 per man-month.
All estimated costs include allowances, internal and external travel, office
supplies and communications expenses. The composition of the supervisory
team would necessarily vary through the course of the contract but the
estimated man months are as follows:
Senior Resident Engineer           35
Resident engineer                  28
Other engineers                   171
Technicians                       452
Junior Assistants                 385
In recognition of the need to balance the requirement for effective super-
vision with the requirement to upgrade the capabilities of Bangladesh
nationals, only the posts of Senior Resident Engineer and Resident Engineer
will be filled by expatriates, with the remaining posts being filled by local
staff. In the course of their supervision duties, the consultants will be
required to collect data on basic construction costs and methods. These data
will be supplied to, and discussed with the Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory
(BRRL) as an input into BRRL's studies on the cost and quality of alterna-
tive construction methods. During negotiations it was discussed and agreed
with GOB that RHD would retain suitable consultants, under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA, and that the appointment of such consultants
shall be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
C. Cost Estimates
4.14      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.6 million
equivalent with, assuming construction by domestic contractors, a foreign
exchange cost of US$4.7 million equivalent (35%). Costs are based upon prices
at January 1, 1979, with allowances for physical and price contingencies.
Details are given by year in Table 4. Construction cost estimates have been
prepared on the basis of final engineering design and on the quantities shown
in the contract documents. A summary of project cost estimates is shown
below.



- 24 -
Item              Localla Foreign  Total/a Local/a Foreign  Total/a Participation
Takas (millions)           US$ (millions)          US$ (millions)
Construction
Comilla Bypass         63.08    17.52   80.60    4.07        1.13   5.20          3.89
Chandina Bypass         14.57     4.34   18.91    0.94       0.28   1.22          0.95
Consultancy
Services              4.19      8.68   12.87    0.27       0.56   0.83          0.83
Plant and Equipment
New Plant and Spares  16.89    24.80   41.69    1.09         1.60   2.69          1.60
Spares for Existing
Plant                 0.93      0.93    1.86    0.06       0.06   0.12         0.06
Subtotals           99.66    56.27  155.93    6.43        3.63  10.06          7.33
Contingencies
(a)  Physical           9.15      4.34   13.49    0.59       0.28   0.87         0.66
(b)  Price             28.83    12.09   40.92    1.86        0.78   2.64         2.01
TOTALS        137.64    72.70  210.34    8.88        4.69  13.57        10.00
/a  Including taxes and duties Takas 31.15 million (US$ 2.01 million).
4.15      Construction costs are based upon the application of unit rates to
estimated quantities. Unit rates are based upon detailed price analysis of
the main construction items supplemented by productivity analyses and compari-
son with recent bid prices for similar work. Quantities are based upon those
computed for the original design modified to reflect agreed design changes
(para 4.07). The estimated cost of construction plant and spares is based
upon a detailed list of proposed plant and on bid prices received for similar
plant in 1978. An allowance has been made for spares for all plant procured
under the proposed credit, this allowance being 17% of the cost of the plant.
To avoid any element of double counting of the cost of plant and spares to be
procured under the proposed credit or already procured under Credit 408-BD,
plant hire charges (para 4.11) are excluded from the construction cost esti-
mates. Depreciation cost of plant and the cost of spares have, however, been
included in the construction costs for the purpose of the economic evaluation
(Annex II). The cost estimate for consultancy services for supervision of
construction is based upon prevailing rates for similar services in Bangladesh.
4.16      Physical contingencies of 5% have been allowed for procurement of
equipment and spares and 10% for all other items. Contingency allowances
for price escalation over January 1, 1979 prices are estimated overall at



- 25 -
24.2% of base cost plus physical contingencies on the basis of the imple-
mentation schedule and on the following annual rates of escalation:
Plant + Equipment Other Items
January 1, 1978 - December 31, 1978             14.0% /a         N.A.
January 1, 1979 - December 31, 1979              6.0%           10.0%
January 1, 1980 - December 31, 1983              N.A.            10.0% p.a.
/a   Used to update 1978 bid prices to base of 1/1/79.
D. Execution of the Project
4.17      An outline of the implementation schedule which was discussed and
agreed with GOB during negotiations is shown in World Bank Chart No. 20418.
As shown in the schedule, it is expected that the proposed project will be
completed by the end of May 1983.
4.18      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of RID, assisted
by the technical assistance team. RHD will be responsible for equipment
operation and repair and for general supervision of contract works. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOB that they would administer
project execution through a unit within RHD established for that purpose, as
in the case of the First Highway Project and would establish a suitably
equipped and staffed site workshop, such workshop being available from the
site of the Feni bypass financed under Credit 408-BD. The proposed project
represents an additional workload on RHD of about 10% over that which has been
carried in recent years assuming that the GOB's highway budget continues at
its present level. While the work may not be attractive to international
contractors, it is considered that the project will attract enough local con-
tractors to ensure fully compeitive bidding and the size and complexity of
individual contracts have been designed accordingly. Prequalification of
local contractors is being carried out on criteria developed from experience
in execution of Credit 408-BD and will be completed by March 1980.
4.19      Project construction is planned to commence in October 1980 and
to be completed in 32 months by May 1983 (WB Chart 20418). Preparation of
draft bid documents for construction contracts was completed by consultants
by end-August 1979, and amendments to these documents, agreed by RHD and IDA,
will be incorporated by December 1979. Bid documents for supply of equipment,
also being prepared by consultants, will be completed in time for scheduled
bidding in November/December 1979. Delivery dates scheduled for equipment
are compatible with the proposed construction timing. In order that equip-
ment procurement can be expedited, the proposed Credit would provide up to
US$200,000 for retroactive financing of equipment procurement. Appointment
of consultants for supervision by the scheduled date (i.e., before credit
effectiveness) will ensure availability of consultancy services through the
construction phase.



- 26 -
4.20      The construction work is expected to be executed by contract using
labor-intensive methods insofar as these methods are compatible with a
finished product of an acceptable standard. Bulk earthworks and stone
crushing will be labor-intensive operations, whilst earthworks compaction
and pavement construction will be plant intensive. Since there is an ade-
quate supply of labor and since the proposed labor-intensive operations can
be efficiently executed as already demonstrated by limited adoption under
Credit 408-BD, the proposed construction methods are satisfactory.
4.21      Progress will be recorded and reported to IDA through monthly
progress reports. The Government will also be asked to prepare a Project
Completion Report within six months of the Credit's Closing Date. During
negotiations, the progress reporting procedures and the project completion
report arrangements were discussed and confirmed with GOB (Annex I).
4.22      Construction of the roads to be financed under the proposed credit
will be on new alignments and will take some 500 acres of land already
acquired by GOB. The construction will be carried out in a manner which will
not exacerbate the effects of monsoon flooding, and excavation of borrow pits
will provide sources of water during the dry season. The net impact on the
environment will be minimal.
E. Procurement
4.23      During negotiations, the following procurement arrangements were
be discussed and agreed with GOB. Procurement under the various project
components is as follows:
(a)  Construction work will be carried out by contracts
awarded through international bidding procedures with
a 7-1/2% preference allowed to local contractors in
accordance with IDA's "Guidelines for Procurement."
Bidding for construction works will be on a slice-
and-package basis with individual elements being of
a size and complexity commensurate with the known
capabilities of domestic contractors;
(b)  Procurement of new equipment and spares for new equip-
ment for construction will be by international com-
petitive bidding with a 15% preference, or the import
tariff amount, whichever is the less, allowed on locally
assembled items in accordance with IDA's guidelines.
Bidders will be post-qualified and compete against
minimum specifications on the basis of cost, delivery
time and reliability of subsequent dealer service;
(c)  In the interest of speed and economy, "off-the-shelf"
items costing under US$20,000 equivalent would be
procured with GOB's normal procedures after bids have



- 2? -
been received from at least three suppliers, and pro-
prietary spare parts for equipment not procured under
the proposed credit but utilized in the construction
would be procured direct from the equipment manufacturer
or his appointed agent. The cost of all such "off-the-
shelf" items or direct procurement of spares shall not
in total exceed US$200,000;
(d) Procurement by GOB of local construction materials such
as stone, sand, bricks, etc. will be through local com-
petitive bidding according to GOB's normal procedures
which are acceptable to IDA; and
(e) IDA will review all contracts and related documentation
for goods and civil works estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent or more before an award is made.
F. Financing and Disbursements
4.24      The proposed credit of US$10.0 million will finance about 74% of
the total cost net of plant hire charges (86% excluding taxes and duties).
The credit would, therefore, finance foreign exchange cost plus about US$5.3
million equivalent of local cost. The remaining project cost would amount to
about US$3.6 million equivalent including US$2.0 million equivalent for taxes
and duties and would be met by GOB. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from GOB that all local funds required for the proposed project would
be made available in a timely manner, and any increase in the cost of the
project, foreign or local, would be borne by GOB. Approval by GOB of the
Project Proforma 1/ will be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.25      Disbursement of the proceeds of the proposed Credit will be made
on the following basis:
(a) 72% of total costs net of equipment hire charges for
construction of Comilla and Chandina bypasses by contract;
(b) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures and 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for procurement of new plant,
spares for new plant and spares for existing plant to
be used on the construction works; and
(c) 100% of total expenditures for consultancy services
for supervision of construction.
1/   An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a pre-requisite
for release of funds.



- 28 -
Expenditures on equipment procurement, subsequent to October  1, 1979, are
to be retroactively financed by IDA in the first year of the project and
would amount to, at maximum, US$200,000. Based on the above and the project
implementation schedule (WB 20418), the schedule of disbursements has been
estimated (Table 2). Disbursement arrangements and the schedule were dis-
cussed and agreed with GOB at the time of negotiations.
G. Maintenance of Project Roads
4.26      The roads to be constructed under the proposed project, together
with the road constructed under the First Highway Project, have a combined
length of only about 30 miles. Adequate maintenance of so small a length
of road and of the bridge and RHD Headquarters building constructed under
the First Highway Project, is within the present financial and technical
capability of RHD.
4.27      The nationwide road maintenance requirements of Bangladesh are
currently being analyzed through the MIRS and, during negotiations, it was
agreed that GOB would consult with IDA on the findings and recommendations of
the study and would formulate, for possible IDA financing, a project designed
to improve general maintenance practices and standards (para 2.12).
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Sources of Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The proposed project is designed to facilitate the movement of
vehicles and reduce operating costs along the main Dacca-Chittagong trunk
road by allowing traffic to bypass two particularly congested sections of the
present route. The following benefits can be attributed to the project:
(a) The traffic currently using the present route is subject
to constant changes in speed due to the congested condi-
tions in Comilla and Chandina. The necessity to con-
tinually brake and accelerate engenders high operating
costs on the present route. The flow of traffic using
the bypass will face fewer such disturbances while the
relief of congestion within the towns will reduce the
frequencies of speed changes on traffic that still con-
tinues to use the present route.
(b) Operating costs of vehicles using the bypasses will be
further reduced since (i) the road surface on the bypasses
will represent a considerable improvement over the road
surface on the present route; (ii) the present route
through Chandina, with its very high curvature, impedes
the smooth flow of traffic and raises operating costs.



- 29 -
(c) Certain traffic flows, notably on the Chandpur-Chittagong
route will benefit from substantial distance savings.
(d) At present heavy vehicle traffic passing through the
towns of Chandina and Comilla is a considerable nuisance
to the residents. The diversion of a substantial pro-
portion of this heavy traffic from the town centers to
the bypasses will reduce accident rate, noise pollution
and other attendant costs of congestion within the towns.
5.02      The benefits (a) to (c) accruing to bus and truck traffic that will
use the bypass have been estimated. No attempt has been made to quantify the
intangible benefits to residents of the towns arising from the project. Nor
have the benefits of reduced congestion to the traffic that continues to use
the present route been estimated. The benefits of the project are further
understated in the economic evaluation since it was assumed that the costs
associated with congestion, and identified in (a) above, will increase pro-
portionately with traffic growth. It is much more likely that as traffic
grows the problems of congestion will become critical and costs will increase
more dramatically.
5.03      The bypasses lie along the trunk road connecting the main port of
Bangladesh, Chittagong, with the primary urban center, Dacca. The freight
carried along this route consists of some bulk commodities such as cement,
iron and steel and petroleum products and general high value cargo. Since
the trucking industry is highly competitive, with freight rates determined
by market forces, a fall in operating costs will be quickly apparent on the
level of freight rates; and the benefits of the project will be passed on to
consumers. Bus fares are currently controlled by GOB and have been kept at
a low level. A fall in operating costs will improve the profitability of
the Dacca-Chittagong route to private bus operators, attracting additional
capacity into this service which will lead to a reduction in overcrowding.
The effect of the proposed project on BR will be negligible since such coM-
petition as exists between road and rail transport is based far less on
freight rates than on adequacy of service, with road transport providing
more reliable service in timing.
B. Costs and Benefits
5.04      The volume of traffic that will use the bypasses is estimated on
the basis of Origin and Destination surveys conducted at the beginning of
1979. The growth of traffic along the Dacca-Chittagong highway has been
extremely high since independence. Periodic traffic counts between Comilla
and Dacca indicate that, since 1972, truck traffic has increased by 17% p.a.
and bus traffic has increased by 12.5% p.a. This high growth rate was the
result of a variety of external factors including initial low levels of
traffic after the war of independence, the ensuing period of reconstruction
and the opening of the Sitalakhya Bridge in December 1977. Average annual
traffic growth for the future is estimated at 8% per annum until 1992 and 5%



- 30 -
thereafter. The costs of construction have been estimated as outlined in para
3.13. The project period comprises four construction seasons with civil works
being executed in the last three seasons, and it is estimated that the new
plant acquired will depreciate by 33% over the construction period. Estimated
vehicle operating costs along the present route include a premium to reflect
the additional costs associated with speed changes due to congestion and a
further premium in Chandina for the increase in operating costs (lue to the
high curvature of the present route. The congestion premium was estimated on
the basis of a large sample of empirical observations on speed changes of
trucks passing through Comilla and Chandina. The increase in operating costs
due to the high curvature of the present route through Chandina was estimated
using surveys on the geometrics of the road. Details of the methodology
adopted in the economic analysis are outlined in Annex II.
5.05      The Comilla bypass will be 12.7 miles in length and inc:ludes some
600 ft of bridging. In its initial year of operation, traffic oni the bypass
is estimated at some 750 trucks per day and 90 buses per day. Benefits would
accrue in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs. The economic evalua-
tion shows that economic returns on the Comilla bypass will be sufficient to
justify this component of the project. Based on a construction period of
four years and an economic life of 15 years, this component of the project
would yield economic returns of 17.5%.
5.06      The Chandina bypass will be 2.24 miles in length and includes
three bridges, each of approximately 100 foot span. Traffic volumes in
the initial year of operation are estimated at approximately 740 trucks
per day and 230 buses per day. This component of the project yields an
economic return of 15.7%. The bypass around the town of Chandina therefore
would be well justified.
C. Conclusions
5.07      The overall rate of return for the project is estimated at about
17%. It should be noted that this understates the full benefits arising from
the project since the intangible benefits of reduced congestion to the residents
of the towns and benefits accruing to vehicles continuing to use the existing
roads have not been taken into account. Sensitivity of the economic returns
to increases in construction costs and reduction in traffic growth rate has
been analysed and shows a reduction in return from an average of about 17%
to an average of about 15% in the case of reduced traffic growth rate and
increased construction cost. Details of the analysis are shown below:



- 31 -
Internal Rates of Return
7% growth in
traffic and
7% traffic    10% increase in        10% cost
Component        Base Case      growth      construction cost      increase
(8% traffic
growth)
Comilla Bypass      17.5        16.8             16.0               15.3
Chandina Bypass    15.7         15.0             14.3               13.6
Weighted Average   17.2          16.5            15.7               15.0
5.08      Individual contracts have been formulated such that their sizes and
complexity are within the known capabilities of domestic contractors, timely
provision and maintenance of adequate plant has been assured, and lead and
construction times are appropriate to contract sizes and contractor capabil-
ities. The contract documents are based upon appropriate construction
standards, and the provision for consultancy services for supervision will
ensure adequate contractor guidance and quality control. Project risks are
small.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Conditions of effectiveness will be that:  GOB approves the Project
Proforma (para. 4.24); and GOB retains the services of consultants on condi-
tions and terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 4.13).
6.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal matters:
(a)  GOB to make available any necessary land (para 4.06);
(b)  overlay to project roads to be carried out when
required (para 4.06).
(c)  new plant, equipment and spares to be used exclusively
on the project (para 4.10);
(d)  plant and equipment provided by GOB to be made available
in a timely manner (para 4.10);
(e)  all plant and equipment to be properly maintained and
repaired (para 4.10);
(f)  RHD to charge contractors cost based hire rates for
equipment (para 4.11);



- 32 -
(g) RHD to provide necessary supervision and support
services (para 4.18);
(h) RHD to produce monthly progress reports and Project
Completion Report (para 4.21 and Annex I); and
(i) timely release of funds to RHD for the project and any
increase in cost to be borne by GOB (para 4.24).
6.03      The proposed project would provide a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of US$10.0 million equivalent to GOB.



- 33 -
ANNEX I
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
1.   During the construction phase of the project, the government will submit
monthly progress reports to the Association, these progress reports containing
the following information:
(a) A description of the work carried out during the month
and the current status of the project;
(b) Quantification of work completed and comparison with
targets and program;
(c) Estimation of project cost and comparison of estimate
with tender sum; and
(d) Analysis of problems encountered or anticipated and
recommendations on solutions.
2.        Within six months of the completion of the project, the Government
will submit to the Association a Project Completion Report on the execution
and initial operation of the project, its cost and the benefits derived or
expected to be derived from it and an assessment of the performance by Govern-
ment and by the Association of their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purpose of the credit. Details of the
contents and requirements of the Project Completion Report were discussed
and agreed during negotiations.
November 1979



_ 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Methodology Used in Economic Analysis
1.   BASIC ASSUMPTIONS
The following assumptions were used in carrying out the economic
analysis:
(a) Physical Characteristics of Vehicles
Trucks           Buses
(i)  Years in use      -    Chassis        15 yrs            15 yrs
Body           5 yrs            7 yrs
(ii)  Annual mileage                        40,000 miles    30,000 miles
(iii) Gross vehicle
weight                               8 tons           8.5 tons
(iv) Average age of
vehicle                               5 yrs            6.5 yrs
(b)  Physical Characteristic of Present Route and Bypasses
Present
Route             Bypass
(i)  Roughness                             6,000 mm/km        2,000 mm/km
(ii)  Av. Speed of trucks                   25 mph             40 mph
(iii)  Av. Speed of buses                    20 mph             30 mph
(c) Shadow Prices (as proportion of market rate)
(i)   Semi-skilled or skilled labor         1.0
(ii)   Unskilled labor                       0.5
(iii)   Foreign exchange                       1.3



_ 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
Retail  Net of  Local   Foreign   Economic
(d)  Prices (Taka '79 prices)       Price   Taxes   Cost    Exchange    Cost
(i) Truck
Engine plus chassis    264,480  198,900  40,000  158,900    246,570
Body                     40,000   38,100  30,000    5,100       39,630
(ii) Bus
Engine plus chassis    271,440  204,680  43,202  161,478    253,123
Body                     96,000   89,000  54,000   34,000       98,200
(iii)  Tyres (each)              3,500    1,750      584    1,166       2,100
(iv)  Diesel (per gallon)       9.47      8.02    0.80      7.22      10.19
(v)  Lubricating oil          44.00    36.75    3.67    33.08        46.67
(per gallon)
(vi)  Mechanic wages             -         -      5.00       -         5.00
(per hr.)
(vii) Total crew wages
(per hr.)
Truck                                  16.00                11.00
Bus                                    10.00                 8.00
Notes:   (1)  Truck Crew:  1 Driver @ 6 Taka/hr (semi-skilled)
5 laborers @ 2 Taka/hr (unskilled)
(2)  Bus Crews :  1 Driver @ 6 Taka/hr (semi-skilled)
Conductor plus 1 helper @ 2 Taka/hr (unskilled)



- 36 _
ANNEX II
Page 3
2.        On these assumptions, the following estimates of vehicle operating
costs for unimpeded traffic flows were calculated (using UK TRRL LR 723,
Tables 41-49):
VEHICLE ECONOMIC OPERATING COSTS
(Taka/mile)
Present
Trucks                     Route                     Bypass
(neglecting
congestion
costs)
1.   Fuel Consumption                  0.61                    0.73
2.   Oil Consumption                   0.07                     0.07
3.   Tyre Consumption                  0.40                     0.28
4.   Parts Consumption                 3.48                     1.55
5.   Labor Maintenance                 0.17                     0.09
6.   Depreciation - Chassis            0.47                     0.47
- Body              0.20                    0.20
7.   Crew wages                        0.44                     0.27
TOTAL                       5.84                     3.66
Buses
1.   Fuel Consumption                  0.79                    0.84
2.   Oil Consumption                   0.07                     0.07
3.   Tyre Consumption                  0.40                     0.28
4.   Parts Consumption                 0.67                     0.12
5.   Labor Maintenance                 0.03                     0.01
6.   Depreciation - Chassis            0.51                     0.51
- Body              0.46                     0.46
7.   Crew wages                        0.40                     0.27
TOTAL                       3.33                     2.56



_ 37 _
ANNEX II
Page 4
3.        Based on the experimental data on speed changes of trucks and the
survey of the geometrics of the road, the following estimates of vehicle
operating costs (Taka/mile) including costs due to congestion and the
curvature of the present route were derived (see Economic Analysis for
Highways, Robley Winfrey, 1969).
Total Vehicle Operating Costs on Present Route
Comilla                 Chandina
(1)  Average effective increase         4.76  miles (36         0.97 (57 expe-
in length due to speed                   experiments)           riments)
changes
(2)  Effective increase in                -                     0.3  miles
length due to curvature
of present route
(3)  Subtotal                           4.76                     1.27
(4)  Length of present route           13.48  miles             2.475 miles
(5)  Premium due to congestion
plus curvature (3 - 4)             0.35                    0.51
(6)  Operating costs of vehicles
in unimpeded traffic
(taka/mile)
Trucks                      5.84                     5.84
Buses                       3.33                     3.33
(7)  Total vehicle operating
costs on present route
(including congestion
plus curvature premium)
(6) + 1(5) x (6)]
(taka/mile)
Trucks                      7.88                     8.82
Buses                       4.50                     5.03



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
4.   COMILLA BYPASS
4.         There are three separate traffic flows that will use the Comilla
bypass. The characteristics of the various traffic flows are as follows:
TRAFFIC FLOW CHARACTERISTICS
Average Daily        Length of         Length of
Traffic
(Jan. 1979)       Present Route    Bypass Route
Trucks  Buses         miles              miles
(a)  Dacca-Chittagong          450      178         13.43              12.73
(b)  Hajiganj-Chittagong        95       23         13.46               7.64
(c)  Hajiganj-Dacca             20       52          6.76               5.15
Assuming that 100% of trucks identified in O&D study and 30% of the buses will
use the bypass after construction and an 8% traffic growth until 1992, the
benefits in the first year (1983/84) are as follows:
BENEFITS IN 1983/84
(million Takas)
(a) Dacca-   (b) Hajigani-    (c) Hajiganj-
Trucks                       Chittagong    Chittagong             Dacca
(1)  Yearly Traffic (000s)               241.34           50.95           10.73
(2) Operating costs along present
route (length x 7.47 Taka/mile
x yearly traffic)                    25.54           5.40             0.57
(3) Operating costs along bypass
(length x 3.44 Taka/mile x
yearly traffic)                      11.24           1.42             0.20
Operating cost savings
(2)-(3)                            14.30             3.98             0.37
Total Benefit to Trucks  =  18.65 million taka.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
(a) Dacca-   (b) Hajiganj-    (c) Hajiganj-
Buses                        Chittagong    Chittagong            Dacca
(1)  Yearly Traffic (000s)              28.64           3.70             8.37
(2)  Operating costs on                  1.73           0.22             0.25
present route (length
x 4.05 Taka/mile x
yearly traffic)
(3)  Operating costs on                  0.93           0.07              0.11
Bypass (length x 2.32
Taka/mile x yearly
traffic)                            _
(4) Operating cost savings
(2)-(3)                            0.80            0.15             0.14
Total Benefits to Buses  =  1.09
Total Benefits to Trucks and Buses = 19.74 million Taka
5.        The construction costs are translated into economic costs using a
shadow price of 0.5 for unskilled labour and a shadow price of 1.3 for foreign
exchange.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
ECONOMIC COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION
(million Takas)
NEW PLANT & SPARES /a              1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
(1)  Financial costs
excluding taxes
and price con-
tingencies
(a)  Foreign                   8.86       0.91        -           _
(b)  Local                       -        0.02        -           -
(2)  Economic Costs                 11.76       1.20        -           -
CONTRACT CONSTRUCTION
(1)  Financial costs
excluding taxes
and price con-
tingencies
(a)  Foreign                   2.66       4.13       4.02       7.84
(b)  Local Unskilled Labor   1.43         3.55       3.58       1.82
(c)  Other Local               7.62       9.50      14.37      19.76
(2)  Economic Costs                 11.80      16.60     21.41      30.88
CONTRACT SUPERVISION
(1)  Financial costs
excluding taxes
and price con-
tingencies
(a)  Foreign                   0.82       2.73       2.59       1.50
(b)  Local                     0.41       1.23       1.23       0.81
(2)  Economic Costs                  1.47      4.78       4.59       2.76
Total Economic Costs                25.03      22.58      26.00      33.64
/a   New plant is assumed to depreciate by 33.3% over the construction period.
6.        The following subsequent costs will also be necessarv:
(i)  Yearly maintenance:      0.39 million taka
(ii)  Overlay in 1988/89:    19.74 million taka
(iii) Resealing in 1993/94: 8.79 million taka
7.        The Comilla bypass yields an economic return of 17.5% (see Annex II,
Table I).



41~ 
ANNEX II
Page 8
8.   CHANDINA BYPASS
8.        The characteristics of traffic flows at Chandina are as follows:
TRAFFIC FLOW CHARACTERISTICS
Average Daily Traffic                                       Length of Bypass
(Jan. 1979)              Length of Present Route             Route
Trucks         Buses                   (miles)                   (miles)
528            313                      2.47                     2.24
Assuming that 95% of the trucks and 50% of the buses will use the bypass
after construction and an 8% traffic growth until 1991, the benefits in the
first year (1982/83) are as follows:
BENEFITS IN 1983/84 (000 Taka)
Trucks        Buses
(1)  Yearly traffic (000s)                  269.01         83.93
(2)  Operating costs on old route             5.86 /a       1.04 /b
(3)  Operating cost on bypass                 2.21 /c       0.48 /d
(4)  Operating cost savings
(2) - (3)                                3.65        0.56
Total benefits = 4.21 million Taka
/a   269.01 x 2.47 miles x 8.82 Taka/mile.
lb   83.93 x 2.47 miles x 5.03 Taka/mile.
/c   269.01 x 2.24 miles x 3.66 Taka/mile.
/d   83.93 x 2.24 miles x 2.56 Taka/mile.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
9.        The construction costs are translated into economic costs using a
shadow price of 0.5 x market price for unskilled labor and a shadow price
of 1.3 x market price for foreign exchange.
Economic Costs of Construction
(million Takas)
(A)  New Plant + Spares /a             1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
(1) Financial Costs
(a)  Foreign                  2.09       0.20        -         -
(b)  Local                    0.05       0.04        -         -
(2)  Economic Costs                2.76       0.30        -          -
(B) Contract Construction
(1)  Financial Costs
(a)  Foreign                  0.66       1.38       1.14       1.50
(b) Local unskilled
labor                 0.38       1.02       0.93       0.40
(c)  Other local              1.17       3.03      3.48       3.77
(2)  Economic Costs                2.82       5.34       5.42       5.91
(C) Contract Supervision
(1) Financial Costs
(a)  Foreign                  0.20       0.68      0.65       0.37
(b)  Local                    0.10       0.31      0.31       0.20
(2)  Economic Costs                0.36       1.19       1.15       0.68
Total Economic Costs        5.94       6.83       6.57      6.59
/a   New plant is assumed to depreciate by 33.3% over the construction period.
10.       The following subsequent costs of maintenance and rehabilitation
will be necessary:
(i)  Yearly maintenance         :   0.07 million Taka
(ii)  Overlay in 1988/89         :   3.55 million Taka
(iii)  Resealing in 1993/94            1.58 million Taka
11.       The Chandina Bypass yields an economic rate of return of 15.7%
(See Table II).



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Table I
COMILLA BYPASS
(million Taka)
Year          Construction Cost           Maintenance        Benefits
1979/80               25.03                    0.00              0.00
1980/81               22.58                    0.00              0.00
1981/82              26.00                     0.00             0.00
1982/83               33.64                    0.00              0.00
1983/84                0.00                    0.39             19.74
1984/85                0.00                    0.39             21.32
1985/86                0.00                    0.39             23.02
1986/87                0.00                    0.39            24.87
1987/88                0.00                    0.39            26.86
1988/89               19.74                    0.39            29.00
1989/90                0.00                    0.39            31.32
1990/91                0.00                    0.39            33.83
1991/92                0.00                    0.39            36.54
1992/93                0.00                    0.39            39.46
1993/94                8.79                    0.39            41.43
1994/95                0.00                    0.39            43.50
1995/96                0.00                    0.39            45.68
1996/97                0.00                    0.39            47.96
1997/98                0.00                    0.39             50.36
Economic Rate of Return  =  17.5%
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
8% growth rate  7% growth rate  10% increase   7% growth rate
to 1992, 5%      to 1992, 5%    in construc-    and 10% cost
thereafter       thereafter        tion cost          increase
Economic return         17.5%            16.8%           16.0%             15.3%



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Table II
CHANDINA BYPASS
(million Takas)
Year          Construction Cost        Maintenance Costs   Benefits
1979/80               5.94                    0.00              0.00
1980/81               6.83                    0.00              0.00
1981/82               6.57                    0.00              0.00
1982/83               6.59                    0.00              0.00
1983/84               0.00                    0.07              4.21
1984/85               0.00                    0.07              4.55
1985/86               0.00                    0.07              4.91
1986/87               0.00                    0.07              5.30
1987/88               0.00                    0.07              5.73
1988/89               3.55                    0.07              6.19
1989/90               0.00                    0.07              6.68
1990/91               0.00                    0.07              7.22
1991/92               0.00                    0.07              7.79
1992/93               0.00                    0.07              8.42
1993/94               1.58                    0.07              8.84
1994/95               0.00                    0.07              9.28
1995/96               0.00                    0.07              9.74
1996/97               0.00                    0.07             10.23
1997/98               0.00                    0.07             10.74
Economic Rate of Return  =  15.7%
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
8% growth rate  7% growth rate  10% increase   7% growth rate
to 1992, 5%      to 1992, 5%    in construc-    and 10% cost
thereafter       thereafter       tion cost          increase
Economic return         15.7%           15.0%            14.3%            13.6%
November 1979



- 45 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Bangladesh Transport
Sector Memorandum, September 26, 1978
The Economist Intelligence Unit with Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners,
Bangladesh Transport Survey, November 1974
Planning Commission, Ministry of Planning, Bangladesh, Review and Updating of
the Bangladesh Transport Survey, January 1978
Roads and Highways Department, Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and
Road Transport, Rehabilitation and Improvement of Road Communication,
August 1976
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, Ministry of Planning, Monthly Statistical
Bulletin of Bangladesh
Roads and Highways Department, Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and
Road Transport, Schedule of Rates for Road and Bridge Works, July 1978
Roads and Highways Department, Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and
Road Transport, Estimates of Maintenance Expenditures 1978/79
Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and Road Transport, Physical and
Financial Progress Report for Development and Reconstruction Works Under
Roads and Highways Department, January 1979
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Bangladesh - Review
of the Construction Industry, June 14, 1978
Planning Commission, Government of Bangladesh, The Two-Year Plan 1978-80
(Draft), March 1978
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Bangladesh - Current
Trends and Development Issues, December 15, 1978
Roads and Highways Department: Transport Section, Unofficial List of Projects
Included in the 1978/79 ADP (Annual Development Plan) and Revised 1978/79 ADP,
January 1979
July 1979



_ 46
ANNEX IV
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance, Improvement and Rehabilitation Study
Summary Terms of Reference
Phase I
(a) The organization, administration and operation of RHD;
(b) Road maintenance organization, administration and operations;
(c) The relationship between the road construction program and
RHD's maintenance capability;
(d) Construction plant and equipment, including quantity, type,
availability, utilization, operational efficiency, disposal
and replacement;
(e) Collection of traffic data;
(f) Equipment-servicing policy, procedures and adequacy;
(g) Spare parts management, procurement and control;
(h) The road system planning process, selection of priorities
and design standards and capabilities;
(i) The ferry system, facilities, management, operation,
repair, maintenance, cost, user charges; and
(j) The road transport industry.
Phase II
(a) Preparation of a five-year maintenance program identifying
required organization, resources and finance;
(b) Identification of high-priority road improvement and
rehabilitation needs;
(c) Analysis of work methods and identification of labor and
equipment required to achieve acceptable work standards;



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
(d)  Detailed examination of equipment management with recom-
mendations for necessary improvement;
(e) Identification of equipment rehabilitation requirements
including spares and workshop equipment requirements;
(f) Details of proposed ferry improvements;
(g) Recommendations for establishment or improvement of
workshops;
(h) Recommendations on spare parts requirements and spares
management and procurement;
(i) Identification of training needs of RHD maintenance staff; and
(j) Economic evaluation of components of a project suitable for
external financing.
July 1979



48
TABLL 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Number of Vehicles on the Road 1/
Cars, Taxis                           Auto       Motor-
Year    and Jeeps       Buses    Trucks   Rickshaws   cycles         Others   Total
1970    23,232          5,787      9,378      7,854      18,849       3,412   68,512
1971    23,795          5,907      9,895      7,907      18,765       3,507   69,776
1972    13,871          4,497      7,278      5,206      12,996       2,425   46,273
1973    14,860          6,030      8,440      7,375      15,264       2,760   54,729
1974    16,164          6,207      9,380      8,424      17,726       3,076   60,977
1975    16,808          6,812      9,457      7,398      20,194       3,265   63,934
1976    19,900          7,205      9,838      7,699      24,083       3,483   72,708
1977 2/ 21,503          7,509      9,757      7,953      26,709       3,263   76,694
Average Growth Rates since Independence (1972):
Trucks  -  6% p.a.
Buses   -  11% p.a.
Source:  1/  Bangladesh Transport Survey Review and Updating (January 1978).
2/  MRRHRT  Based on aggregation of Divisional registration data.
June 1979



- 49 -
TABLE 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements at
IDA Fiscal Year                                        End of Quarter
and Quarter                                        (US$ '000 Equivalent)
1979/80
December 31, 1979                                               -
March 31, 1980                                                 100
June 30, 1980                                                1,850
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                           2,400
December 31, 1980                                            2,950
March 31, 1981                                               4,180
June 30, 1981                                                4,500
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                           4,920
December 31, 1981                                            5,430
March 31, 1982                                               6,320
June 30, 1982                                                6,810
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                           7,340
December 31, 1982                                            7,940
March 31, 1983                                               9,030
June 30, 1983                                                9,880
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                           9,970
December 31, 1983                                           10,000
November 1979



BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Plant and Equipment for Bypasses
Item         _          No.    Unit Cost Us$  Total Coat USa Spares (17%)  Total wi    a             s
Motor Grader (125 h.p.)                   5           86,500         432,500          73,500             506,000
Water Distributor (6000 litre)            5           26,500         132,500          22,500             155,000
Asphalt Plant (6 - lOt/hr)                4           37,000         148,000          25,200             173,200
Asphalt Kettle and Power Handspray        3           23,000          69,000          11,700              80,7100
Pad-foot Self-propelled Compactor         6           52,000         312,000          53,000             365,000
4-wheel-drive Inspection Vehicle          2           12,000          24,000           4,100              28,100
Portable Steel Bridging                 600 ft           425         255,000          43,400             298,400
Total Foreign Exchange Costs                                       1,373,000         233,400           1,606,400
Local Costs (3%)                                                      41,000           7,000              48,000
June 1979
tH



BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGNWAY PROJECT
Project Costs by Year (Us$ millions)
Year 1                           Year 2                              Year 3                             Year 4                               TOTAL
Local   For.   Taxes   Total    Local   For.   Taxes   Total    Local   For.   Taxes   Total    Local   For.   Taxes   Total.  Local   For,   Taxes   Total
Construction
1.  Comilla  Bypass                          0.53    0.16   0.06    0.75       0.74    0.27   0.12    1.13         1.05    0.24   0.13    1.42        1.27    0.46   0.17    1.90         3.59    1.13   0.48    5.20
II.  Chandina Bypass                          0.13    0.04   0.01    0.18        0.24    0.08   0.02    0.34        0.26    0.07   0.02    0.35        0.24    0.09   0.02    0.35         0.87    0,28   0.07    1.22
III.  Consulting Services                      0.03    0.06    -        0.09      0.09    0.20    -        0.29      0.09    0.19    -        0.28      0.06    0.11    -         0.17      0.27    0.56    -        0.83
Plant, Equipment and Spares
IV.  Plant and Equipment                      0.04    1.37   0.82    2.23         -        -      -        -         -        -      -        -         -        -       -        -        0.04    1.37   0.82    2.23
V.  Spares for New Plant                     0.01    0.23   0.22    0.46         -        _      _        _                                                                        -      0.01    0.23   0.22    0,46
VI.  Spares for Existing Plant                 -      0.06   0.06    0.12         -        -       _       -         _        _       -       -         -        -       -        _         -       0.06   0.06    0.12
Subtotal                            0.74    1.92   1.17    3.83        1.07    0.55   0.14    1.76        1.40    0O50   0.15    2.05        1.57    0.66   0.19    2.42         4.78    3.63   1.65   10.06
Contingencies                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
Quantity Increases
(107. on I, II, III; 5% on IV, V, VI)       0.07    0.11   0,06    0.24        0.11    0.06   0.01    0.18         0.14    0.05   0.02    0,21        0.16    0.06   0.02    0.24         0.48    0.28   0.11    0.87
Price Increases
Items I, II, III; Year I          107        0.08    0.03   0.01    0.12                                                                                                                  0.08    0.03    MI    0.12
Year II       21%                                           0.25    0.13   0.03    0.41                                                                               0.25    0.13   0.03    0.41
Year III      33%                                                                              0.51    0.18   0.05    0.74                                            0.51    0.18   0.05    0.74
Year IV       45%                                                                                                                  0.77    0.33   0.09    1.19        0.77    0.33   0.09       1.19
Items IV, V, VI                    67.        -      0.11   0,07    0.18       _          __                                                                                               -       0.11   0.07    0,18
Subtotal Contingencies             0,15    0.25   0.14    0.54        0.36    0.19   0.04    0.59        0.65    0.23   0.07    0.95        0.93    0.39   0.11    1.43         2.09    1.06   0.36    3.51
GRAND TOTAL                           91.31    43                     1.43    0.74   0.18    2.35        2.05    0.73   0.22    3.00         2.50    1.05   0.30    3.85        6.87    4.69   2.01   13.57
Source:  Mission and GOB Estimates
November 1979



- 352 -
TABLE 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Bypasses
Design speed:                                 60 mph
Right-of-way:                                160 ft
Minimum radius:                            1,000 ft
Maximum gradient:                              3%
Maximum super elevation:                       8%
Shoulder width:                                7 ft
Pavement width:                               22 ft
Pavement wearing course:                   Thin pre-coated
stone carpet
Pavement design:                           0.5 million standard
axles before overlay
strengthening
Bridge design load:                        HS20-44 AASHTO
Width between curbs for bridges:              24 ft



BANGLADESH
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Structure of RHD as at January 1979
Chief
Engineer
Additional Chief         .Additional Chief          Additional Chief            Additional Chief          Additional Chief             Deputy Chief                 Girector
Engineer, Planning       Engineer, Operations        Engineer, Special              Engineer,                 Engineer,                  Engineer,               Road Research
Projects                 Mechanical               Administration           Procurement/Stores             Laboratory
Superintending            Deputy Chief              Superintending                                        Superintending
Engineers                 Engineers   - 2            Enginee                       p  ntending            Engineers      3            u                         A
Planning   -  2           Chief Arbori-              Senior                        rigineers                          -  3          Superintending n  5         Assistant
Design     -  2           culturist    -  I         Structural                                            Audit/                    Engineers  -  2              Directors -- 3
Senior                    Superintend-               Designel       2                                     Accounts l     1
Economist -  1            ing Engineer - 1       l  D                                                                       -      1   _ll                         
-_______ |  |Executive              |      Executive                                                                                                  Executive
Engineers  -   31         Engineers  -  19           Executive                  Executive                 Executive                  Engineer   -  1
Executive                 Assistant                  Structural                 Engineer s    1 7         Engineers  -  3            Engineers  -  6           Assistant
Engineers  - 21           Engineers  -   73          Designers  -   6          Assistant                  Assistant                  Assistant                 Engineer   -  1
Economists    2                                      Assistant                 Engineers     32           Engineers  -  4            Engineers  -  2           Research
| Assistant         |  |  Sub-Divisional             Engineers  -  68          Sub Divisional             Accounts                                              Officer    -  1
Engineers  -  65          Engineers      102                                   Engineers      12          Officers   -  5            Sub-Divisional            Junior
Arbori-                   Sub-Divisional                                                                   Engineers     2           Research
culturists  -   13         Engineers  -  10                                                                                          Officer    -  2
Source: RHD
June 1979                                                                                                                                    World Bank -20402






BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1979               1980               1981                1982        |      1983
Credit Effective
EQUIPMENT & SPARES                                                I
Preparation of Bid Documents                    *
Advertisement
Preparation of Bids                                     _
Bid Evaluation and Award                                               J
Supply of Equipment                                                  ||
CONSTRUCTION OF BYPASSES                                                7
Invitation to Prequalify
Finalization of Bid Documents                      _
Prequalification of Bidders                        _
Preparation of Bids
Bid Evaluation and Award
Order of Local Materials
Construction                                                        I_
CONSULTANCY SERVICES
Appointment of Supervision Consultants
Pre-construction Administration
Supervision of Construction                                                             1     _                          t     iii
Source: RHD & Mission Estimates
November 1979                                                                                                 World Bank - 20418






BANG LADESH
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Structure of MRRRT
Mi nister
I
Secretary
railway Wing                                                                           Road and Road
Transport Wing
Deput                Joint Secretary  ||_
Additional            Secretary                and                                  .
Secretary           Enquiries and        Financial Adviser                        Joint
l   Establishment                                           Secretary
Directors:
Railway                  Section            Deputy Director
Planning Etc.            Off icers        Finance and Budget                                                             _Member
Engineering Etc.                              r                                   ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~senior  Demputy  Secretary
EngTi n eeraffic ng E tc .|Deputy Secretary                                               Deputy Secretary        Transport         Secretary       Transport          Financial
Roads & Highways       Road Transport         Economist          Admin.        Coordination         Adviser
Additional                                 Section Officer             Section                Section            Section          Section         Movement            Deputy
|    Director  l                       l     Fiance       l    l      Off icers             Officers                              fficers         Officers          Financial
|   Section  l                        I                   I    l                  I   i                  I    I           I    I           I  I              t    {  Adviser
Assistant
'Financial
Adviser
Source: MRRRT
Soure: MRRT                                                                                                                                                    World Bank - 20419
June 1 979






\>    <.1 N I IA                                        BANGLADEH
SECOND,HIGHWAY PROJECT
TThsiu~goo~  j*~....                                       -TRANSPORT NETWORK
5~~~~~~~~~A                                                          PLO&   R&AD 4S                                           '9.
L , @/ < A24l ,:  0 0 >>0                                                ROAD C           CTED t R R:CREDIT 40CNO  
DI 'AJ P                                                                                 PRAFRY~ ROAs
.                                                      --   OTHEr- RoADS
-  --    MOT-RNT$O ARL bJPWRIE
'~ ~~~~~S~no ;.                                -4 K  0 _MNICI                                         0'''                                       ''
f=4S L =iD''SC.z.~~~~~~~~~~~NT~RTlu4' LNARIESse<'E    :
ry/y
D   A~~~~~~~
>   t >s;>8tJsfMbf3 l Wor/dBan*'sstaffexcluoscI,gs,r   Fen\ )t:                                                          :   
x rr I fJoundtfnes sfFown on thgs msp / \ rR H _~~~~~~  00sd~s 
-9    1                        
i ~     ~      - >                             <udmrtnhb3sauo  6K,lo  .         'j&  '                   <                            =         r
COi    0 -tKq.                                                           O
-     =                                                                 Ba          a#tntryrnedeeFn  Bengaltr
.BI'1A    ord Bnks taf ecsie A forJR
thE Sconvnince Of tkh readers of
:n
R~: A N&>0S           terpLtt Nhchi sAtahdBUR As
ThJeoee,on  odadte0 2                           0 5    00
do so ml,K  on th prt5fth N
Os, of Bergs?  World Bank and its affiliates, any  3    30  ~~~~~~0    0T GO
jocgmnt n he egl sew  of  T                3KH,
any enBayy r0ay enorsmen
50CL  2005              or    p hasceo e- pof ouch   thndres...t
Wodd Bwk's s(O exc90'                                   Or 9f0



