Document of                  C. X T E   -0,r ty
The World Bank                    4 t       VAflf A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2656-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 26, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oficial dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
In August 1979, the Bangladeshi Taka was officially
devalued relative to the Pound Sterling to a rate Tk 34.7 to the
Pound. Since October 1979 the Taka has been pegged to a basket
of major currencies, with the Pound Sterling as intervention
currency. Consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to
change although it has been fairly stable for some time at around
15.5 Taka per Dollar.. The rate below has been used throughout
tkis report except where otherwise stated.
US$1             =  Tk 15.5
Tk 1             =  US$0.0645
Tk 1 million    =  US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I foot          =  0.305 meters
1 mile          =  1.609 kilometers
PRINCIPAL GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
BTS    -  Bangladesh Transport Survey
GOB    -  Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
MIRS   -  Road Maintenance, Improvement and Rehabilitation
Study
MRRHRT - Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and Road
Transport
RHD    -  Roads and Highways Department
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:          US$10.0 M Equivalent.
Terms:            Standard.
Purpose:         The project would seek to reduce vehicle operating costs
between the main population centers of Dacca and Chittagong
through the construction of bypasses around the towns of
Comilla and Chandina. It would provide for the procurement
of construction equipment, construction of civil works by
contractors, and supervision of construction by consultants.
The project's principal beneficiaries would include pro-
ducers and consumers as well as users of bus transport in
the project area who will benefit from more efficient road
services resulting from lower vehicle operating costs. The
formulation of the project reflects lessons learned from the
First Highway Project (Credit 408-BD) and the risks are
accordingly small.
Estimated
Costs:  1/             Item                 Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ millions-------
Comilla Bypass               4.07       1.13      5.20
Chandina Bypass              0.94       0.28      1.22
Plant, Equipment and Spares 1.15        1.66      2.81
Consulting Services          0.27       0.56      0.83
Sub-totaLl                6.43      3.63      10.06
Physical Contingencies       0.59       0.28      0.87
Price Contingencies          1.86       0.78      2.64
TOTAL PRlOJECT COSTS      8.88      4.69      13.57
Financing Plan:                                 GOB        IDA      TOTAL
-------US$ millions-----
3.57 1/  10.00    13.57
1/   Including taxes and duties (US$2.0 million equivalent).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated                                        ----------US$ millions---------
Disbursements:                                  FY8O   FY81   FY82  FY83   FY84
Annual                         1.9    2.6    2.3   3.1    0.1
Cumulative                     1.9    4.5    6.8   9.9   10.0
Rate of Return: 17%
Appraisal
Report:         2607-BD, dated December 18, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE; DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S" REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$10.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to assist in the financing of a Second High-
way Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the country in June 1978; its report
entitled "Bangladesh: Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No.
2245-BD) was circulated on December 15, 1978. An updated Country Economic
Memorandum is currently being prepared by an economic mission which visited
Bangladesh in October 1979. That memorandum will be distributed in
February 1980.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent in December 1971, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy:  the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the
need to fashion a national government out of a provincial administration, to
establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry, trade, and
banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry to the changed market
conditions.
4.        The first years of independence were difficult.  Poor harvests in
1972/73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. Bangladesh's terms of
trade worsened considerably as prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply. The production of jute, the predominant export,
stagnated. Inflation, declining real wages, labor unrest and political
instability added to the troubles. During this early period, relief,
rehabilitation, and consolidation of Government authority were unavoidably
the paramount concerns of policy makers.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater
political stability, signal a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and somewhat brighten its economic prospects.  The present
time can be characterized as a period of consolidation of the country's
economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970's. It is also a period
which offers planners and policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the
longer-term needs of development. In recognition of its need for a funda-
mental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to put off a



-2-
new Five Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
has given GOB officials time to carefully consider the development strategy
and policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July
1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        The most notable recent political development was the parliamentary
election held in February 1979. Since 1975, Bangladesh had been governed
under martial law and without a parliament. In the recent elections, some 29
political parties and groups contested the 300 seats in the National Assembly.
Roughly two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party
headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who had previously been confirmed as
President in an election held in June 1978. Martial law was lifted following
the convening of the new Parliament in March 1979. One area in which the
Government expects these developments to have a salutary effect is in the
investment climate; it is hoped that both domestic and foreign investors will
be encouraged.
7.        FY78 was a relatively good one for the economy.  Mostly as the
result of a large grain crop, which recovered from the substantial decline in
the previous year, and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly
8% in real terms. For the third year in a row, Bangladesh was spared major
droughts, floods or cyclones. Foodgrain output reached a record level of 13.1
million tons. The favorable results in agriculture were explained not only by
good weather but also by constructive Government actions resulting in sharply
increased supplies of fertilizer, other agricultural inputs and credit, and
larger and more efficient procurement effort, at prices attractive to farmers.
Results for wheat were particularly encouraging. Jute output also increased
substantially, partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme. The
strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival in consumer
demand, an increase in investment, and improved availability of imported raw
materials. Capacity utilization in industry was stimulated by increased
demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, by an intensification of construc-
tion activity, and by a liberalized import policy for industrial raw materials
and spare parts.
8.        It is still too early to make an accurate assessment of the economy's
overall performance in FY79. Agricultural production appears to have been at
least 200,000 tons below the level reached in FY78, mainly due to poor weather.
Reduced foodgrain procurement, delayed food imports and a high rate of off-
take through the ration system in the first half of CY1979 led to food stocks
falling to undesirably low levels. Beginning in April 1979, however, the
Government actively undertook to purchase additional food and to negotiate
increased and accelerated foodgrain import deliveries from several donors.
These actions appear to have ensured that nearly 2 million tons of food will
be delivered to Bangladesh in the period July-December 1979. Agreement was
also reached between GOB and the donors that a special meeting of the Bangla-
desh Aid Group would be convened in January 1980 (when results of the next
aman harvest will be known). This meeting will ascertain the food aid
requirements for CY1980 and will focus anew on the food policy issues that



-3-
were the subject of the Bank's 1977 report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy
Review" (Report No. 1764a-BD, dated December 12, 1977).
9.        Notwithstanding the decline in foodgrain output in FY79, substantial
growth was reported in other sectors, notably in construction. Both private
and public sector investments have also shown some growth momentum. According
to the FY80 budget document, the revised FY79 Annual Development Program was
33% larger than in FY78, whiLe disbursements of project aid increased by some
Tk 1.4 billion (about $90 M), representing a 35% increase over FY78. Never-
theless, it is still uncertain whether the overall GDP growth rate for FY79
was ahead of population growlh.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
In FY78, the acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25%. Current expenditure
meanwhile rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a substantial upward
adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel. The net result
was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same time, develop-
ment expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid disbursements,
deficit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of current revenue.
Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome aspect of current
developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued to rise during FY78
and began to have its effect on the price level. The cost of living increased
by some 15% in FY78 as compared to 1% in FY77. Seeking to keep inflation
under control, the Government drew up a balanced budget for FY79. Preliminary
results for FY79 indicate that total revenues rose by about 20% whereas
current expenditures increased by less than 10%, in current prices. The
resultant increase in the current surplus was nearly 80% above that realized
in FY78, representing a considerable gain in domestic resource mobilization.
As in the previous year, however, there was a rapid growth in money supply and
inflation continued at a rat:e of about 15%.
11.       The most significant development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import: payments after a low import level in FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks to a safe level; the remainder provided much of
the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth: fertilizer, cement, spare parts,
industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
12.       Although export earnings rose in FY78 by 8%, the surge in imports
resulted in a more-than-doubling of the trade deficit--from $405 million in
FY77 to $852 M in FY78. The increased export earnings in FY78 represented
a continuation of a trend that began with the 1975 devaluation. The main
determinant of the FY78 improvement was a 16% increase in export prices,
especially of traditional exports such as jute and tea. Although raw jute
exports declined due to supply shortages, jute goods exports were buoyant,
mainly due to fiber shortages in international markets, some substitution of
jute for synthetics, and government incentive policies, including special
export bonus subsidies. Jute and jute product exports still account for about
70% of total Bangladesh exports. The growth of minor and non-traditional
exports in FY78 was modest as compared with the previous year.



- 4-
13.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East. These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 M in FY78 and rose to
about 140 million in FY79. An offsetting effect, however, has been the loss
of trained Bangladeshis. This has led both to higher costs for skills in
short supply and to delays in implementing certain projects. An analysis of
this labor migration and its costs and benefits is currently underway; this
study is being financed under the Bank's external research program.
14.       The balance of payments for FY79 was marked by a slower growth in
imports despite a substantial increase in project aid disbursements. The
trade and current account deficits were nevertheless larger than in previous
years with the latter rising by $90 million to a level of $870 million. In
view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and amortization
payments on medium- and long-term debt, the overall gap covered by foreign
aid disbursements in FY79 was estimated at about $1 billion. International
reserves rose during the year by about $130 million, but are projected to
decline to about $90 million in FY80.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
15.       Notwithstanding the progress achieved in the mid-1970s, especially
in foodgrain output and per capita GDP growth, the salient conditions of
Bangladesh are still: mass poverty; a unique environment prone to natural
disasters; and dependence on aid, not only for investment financing but also
for food and other recurrent inputs. Life expectancy is short, child mortality
is high, and human fertility remains largely unchecked. A large part of the
adult population is illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed.
Although the economy has largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the
early 1970's, in a number of areas it has yet to reach the FY70 levels. In
FY78 per capita income, domestic savings, per capita rice production (notwith-
standing last year's record crop) and average nutrition levels remained
depressed below their pre-independence levels. The public investment ratio
(estimated at about 10% of GDP in FY78) was restored to about the FY69 rate
after some years of depression to considerably lower levels. Foreign aid
still covers some 75-80% of public investment.
16.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 M tons annually in recent years
(1.6 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be inadequate
for half the population.  Farm holdings are small and fragmented.  The density
of population on the land is already extremely high, and landlessness is on
the increase; almost half the rural population (comprising nearly 90% of
Bangladesh's 85 M people) is landless or virtually landless. Population
growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually. The country's
resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other natural re-
sources, except for natural gas deposits, are meager. The infrastructure
remains inadequate, and the lack of managerial and administrative skills has
hindered the country's ability both to plan and to implement its policies
and projects effectively.



17.       Confronted by the formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Government is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan (TYP) to
rationalize certain policies and to clarify its medium- and longer-term
development strategies. The TYP itself recognizes population control and
rural de-s  pment as top priorities.  A nationwide framework for family
planning services has been established, and experiments have been made
with various types of rural development models.  Steps have been taken to
provide incentive prices for foodgrains through appropriate procurement
policies, to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies, and to
improve the working of public sector corporations, most notably in the jute
manufacturing sector.  Greater scope is being given to the private industrial
sector. The Government has established a Project Implementation Bureau as a
means to help speed up the slow pace of project implementation. The benefi-
cial results of these reforms are not always readily apparent, however and in
a number of cases will take considerable time to show. The TYP itself is, of
course, unlikely to change the course of development, since its period is too
short and most of the development budget during these two years (83%) is
preempted by ongoing projects.
18.       Work on a Perspect:ive Plan (1980-2000) and the Second Five Year Plan
is still in a preliminary stage.  Present indications are that the Government
will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and institutional changes to
bring about a rural orientation and decentralization of planning; (ii) achieve-
ment of food at least self-sufficiency by 1985; (iii) employment creation and
population control; (iv) reductions in subsidies and other means to mobilize
domestic resources; and (iv) a major new effort to reduce illiteracy. It
remains to be seen, of course, what specific new modalities will be devised
for achieving these broad objectives. But clearly these are all central
objectives, and much of IDA's own economic and sectoral work program is
currently addressed to the analysis of rural development, food production,
trade policy and industrial development prospects, and domestic resource
mobilization. Considerable attention is also being given, particularly by
IDA's resident mission, to finding ways and means to improve aid coordination
and project implementation.
19.       In the preparation of a development strategy and plan with realistic
short and medium-term targets, a clear set of priorities and a consistent
resource allocation pattern need to focus on the following key areas:
First, and central to any program to raise living standards, is the need to
check the rapid growth of population. The main specific task is to increase
effective delivery of family planning services, while continuing to motivate
families to practice birth control. The second key area, because of its
large potential for supplying food requirements and providing a broad dis-
tribution of benefits, is the need to increase agricultural productivity.
IDA is currently collaborating with the Government in the formulation of a
medium-term crop production plan. Farm yields are far below what is environ-
mentally and technologically feasible. The main constraints -- inadequate
incentives, inefficient delivery of inputs, and the slow progress of rural
development programs -- are essentially administrative in nature. Social
factors also compound the inherent difficulties in mounting and administering
large programs that can reach effectively the many millions of people that



-6-
live in Bangladeshi villages. Third, exports and supporting agricultural and
industrial development are essential to the country's future economic viabil-
ity. In this connection, improved efficiency of the jute industry, expansion
of labor-intensive industries based on local raw materials (e.g. tea, fish,
leather, paper, spices, fruits, vegetables and handicrafts), and the promotion
of new industrial export products are essential elements of a successful
export strategy. The fourth key area is to increase domestic resource mobil-
ization.  There is scope to increase taxation, improve tax administration and
reduce the very large subsidies to public corporations. The Government has
been considering new means to mobilize additional domestic resources. At the
June 1978 meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group, the Government announced its
decision to establish five committees to consider the following issues:
(i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii) rationalization of the rate
structure of public transport agencies; (iii) economic pricing by public
utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input subsidies, including the
fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial performance of public
sector enterprises. The committees have recently concluded their work.
Furthermore, a detailed survey of the jute industry was recently completed;
this should lead to a modernization program and eventually to improved manage-
ment practices, increased labor productivity and better financial performance.
The final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was also submitted to the
Government in early 1979. A modest start was made to implement some of the
recommendations of both the resource mobilization committees and the Commis-
sion in the context of the FY80 budget.
20.       While these elements of a development strategy are not the only
requirements to improve the economy, they are among the most important and
will themselves place heavy demands on an understaffed and overburdened
development administration. The fifth area, therefore, is to strengthen the
administration and to economize on the demands placed upon it. Where admin-
istrative capacity is limited, administrative controls in such matters as
industrial policy, pricing, food policy and trade need to be minimized to
the extent feasible and consistent with social objectives. There remains
considerable scope also for administrative economy in these and other areas,
as well as through greater decentralization of authority and responsibility.
21.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization , Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact
that the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. It is
estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $800 million in FY78,
rose to $1 billion in FY79, comprising $200 million of food, $475 million of
commodities and $300 million of project aid. To build up the pipeline for
FY80, required FY79 commitments were estimated at approximately $1,600 mil-
lion; it appears that this target was realized. For some time to come,
Bangladesh's capital and current import requirements must be met to a large
extent by external assistance if its economic growth and execution of current
development plans are not to be slowed.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
22.       Bang'Ladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiva-
tion of uncompLeted projects, financed under credits made originally to
Pakistan, before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million
(including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been dis-
bursed under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of
cancellations) were made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of October 31, 1979,
36 new credits, excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million have
been made, totalling US$1029.7 million. Of these, US$525 million have been
for eight program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricultural
development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunications,
transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member
of the IFC, and IFC's first investment (High Speed Shipbuilding and Engineer-
ing Co., Ltd.) was approved on Mlay 10, 1979.
23.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bilat-
eral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became indepen-
dent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it could
do so thereafter, unless carefu:L debt management policies are pursued and aid
is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank
Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 M were signed on February
14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external debt
is not expected to rise significantly above the present level of about 27%
over the next few years.
24.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of October 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, due inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of
contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Govern-
ment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are begin-
nirg to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disburse-
ment performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because
of a shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures
and organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For
example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to strengthen
the key ministries and agencies dealing with agriculture and water resources,
such as, the Water Development 'Board (WDB) and the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) through detailed studies of their organizational
and operating procedures. These steps have produced noticeable improvements
in the wake of project implementation and further improvements are expected.
IDA and GOB have also given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and



- 8 -
supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems at an early
stage, thereby pre-empting undue delays in project implementation. Further-
more, the Government has taken actions including improved procedures for
recruitment of civil servants and increased emphasis on training - which are
important not only as steps towards gradually improving the quality of public
administration, but also as evidence of its awareness of the problem and
concern to do something about it. On the organizational side, the Government
is in the process of establishing planning cells in the main ministries and
agencies and is strengthening the Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA
is providing assistance both under specific projects and under three Technical
Assistance Credits (Credit 409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD).
Transport Operations
25.       Of the 36 new project credits totalling US$1029.7 million, US$38.7
million equivalent consisted of two Inland Water Transport Credits and the
First Highway Credit. Some minor roads were also financed under the Cyclone
Area Reconstruction and Technical Assistance Credits. As explained in para-
graphs 31 to 40 much remains to be done to strengthen the transport network
in Bangladesh.
Other Sectors
26.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight program credits
approved to date and because of the basic structural weakness in the economy
program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required. Nevertheless, the
share of program lending in total lending on a year-to-year basis is planned
to decline gradually during the next few years. The industrial sector has
also benefitted from DFC and small scale industry projects and a fertilizer
production project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying further
suitable investment opportunities following the approval of its first project
referred to in paragraph 22 above.
27.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was approved on May 29, 1979. Improved
education and availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending
in this field has emphasized agricultural and technical training; a project
for vocational and management education was recently approved.
28.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, major efforts are being made to
identify and provide much needed assistance both in support of agricultural
development as well as other critical infrastructural areas such as trans-
portation, industry, water, energy and power, and telecommunications. A
power project was approved on June 16, 1979 and further credits to finance
a second Dacca Water Supply project and a fertilizer imports program were
approved on June 26, 1979. In addition to the proposed credit, the processing
of a low lift pump project is currently underway. Particular emphasis will
continue to be placed on projects which provide infrastructure for the rural
sector, process or provide outlets for products from the rural areas, reduce



- 9 -
the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources and make a significant
contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's overall development efforts. In
view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits should
cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external lenders are inhibited
from achieving the levels of resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's
economic circ-mstances by difficulties in the preparation and implementation
of development: projects. The Government's capacity to carry out projects
is constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings rate. In these cir-
cumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as
agricultural and rural development - where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is also
justified.
29.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provide the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
30.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
increasingly have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design,
preparation and implementation to administrative realities. They will also
have to contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision
than is the case in many other countries. There are, however, enormous
opportunities for making significant progress in improving economic conditions
for the people of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will
require painstaking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
31.       The geography and history of Bangladesh have given rise to a varied
and complex transport system with water, rail, and road systems providing
complementary transport services. The country's numerous and wide rivers
provide the basis for a substantial inland water transport system. The
railways, originally developed in the nineteenth century as part of the Indian
Railways system, connect a number of key economic centers through a network of
approximately 1,200 miles of meter-gauge and 600 miles of broadgauge track.
Road transport which, prior to partition in 1947, played a negligible role,
has developed in a striking manner in the past 30 years. All of the key
centers of Bangladesh are now connected by roads; nevertheless, the network
as a whole remains inadequate.



- 10 -
32.       The transport network suffered considerable damage during the war
of independence in 1971 with the loss of many road vehicles, railway locomo-
tives and wagons. Some 600 rail and road bridges were damaged or destroyed,
airfields were damaged, and sunken ships blocked the ports. Although by 1973
most of the damaged bridges and ports had been rebuilt, the Government has
been financially constrained in its high-priority restoration and reconstruc-
tion of the transport infrastructure, and the operating Ministries have
fallen short of their rehabilitation and development targets.
Institutions
33.       The Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport (MPS/WT)
and the Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and Road Transport (MRRHRT)
share responsibility for regulation and/or operation of surface transporta-
tion, while air transportation is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Civil Aviation and Tourism. Coordination of transport investments and
policies falls within the purview of the Ministry of Planning. Control
within the Ministries is highly centralized, and inter-ministerial coopera-
tion is largely informal. The prevailing decision making structure suffers
from a variety of problems - many of which are not unique to Bangladesh.
Investment priorities are not clearly defined; qualified and experienced
specialists have tended to seek employment in the private sector and in the
Middle East, and political considerations have influenced many investment
decisions. The development of a fully integrated and effective transport
planning process is still incomplete, and present planning methods still
reflect conditions at the time of independence, when the emphasis was, of
necessity, on embarking upon a very large number of reconstruction projects
with priority being given to those projects for which external finance was
most readily available.
Inland Water Transport
34.       The length of navigable waterways varies from 2,300 miles in the
dry season to 3,300 miles during the monsoon. Mechanized inland water trans-
port is provided by the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC)
and by private operators, the latter carrying about 90 percent of passenger
and 50 percent of freight traffic. The mechanized fleet is supplemented by
about 300,000 country boats. The Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
(BIWTA) controls the system, regulates traffic and fares and maintains
facilities. Of the BIWTC fleet of about 600 vessels, with a static capacity
of about 180,000 tons, some 70 percent will require extensive repairs within
five years. A program of repair and replacement is being prepared with the
help of specialists financed under an IDA Credit (735-BD). The private
sector, comprising about 600 vessels of about 155,000 tons static capacity,
is currently undergoing expansion with GOB help. The inland water transport
subsector is receiving assistance from IDA,the Netherlands and Norway.
Railway Transport
35.       Bangladesh Railways is state owned and managed and has a system of
1,187 route miles of meter gauge track in the eastern part of the country



- 11 -
and 599 miles of broad gauge in the west. The two halves of the system are
connected by two ferries across the Jamuna River. The track is of low
standard and poorly maintained and the system is of low capacity. Over the
past ten years, employee productivity, and availability and utilization
rates of locomotives and rolling stock have all fallen. Freight traffic
is below pre-independence leveLs while passenger transport haL increased
considerably due to very low passenger fares and the Government's policy
of giving priority to passenger traffic. The railway system is receiving
assistance from the Asian Development Bank, the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia
and Canada.
Highways Subsector
36.       Road construction and maintenance is the responsibility of the
Roads and Highways Department (RHD) of MRRHRT. RHD is headed by a Chief
Engineer who reports to the Secretary of MRRHRT and is, in turn, assisted
by five Additional Chief Engineers, one Deputy Chief Engineer and the Director
of the Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory. RHD has an established staff of
some 500 engineers of various grades and approximately 450 engineers in non-
established posts. Although t'he importance of road transport has increased
rapidly over the past 30 years, the road network is poorly developed with
much of the 4,200 mile main-road system comprising unconnected stretches
requiring ferry services across numerous rivers. Many of the approximately
2,700 miles of bitumen-surfaced main roads have poor alignments and have been
built to standards which are unsuitable for efficient operation of motor
vehicles. Earthworks are largely uncompacted, and pavements are narrow and
weak, with the result that many of the roads are in an advanced state of
disrepair, average traffic speeds are low, vehicle operating costs and road
maintenance costs are high, and the roads are not adequate for the present
volume of traffic.
37.       Published statistics on the size of the motor vehicle fleet and
on traffic growth are sparse and inconsistent. Analysis of such figures
indicates overall average growth in the number of vehicles on the road
in the five years 1972-77 of about 11% p.a. with the number of trucks growing
at 6% p.a., buses at 11% p.a., and light vehicles at 12% p.a. Over the same
period, traff'ic counts on the Dacca-Comilla section of the Dacca-Chittagong
road indicate annual increases on that section of 17% for truck traffic and
12.5% for bus traffic. All figures reflect the growth from initial low levels
after the war of independence, and the traffic figures for the Dacca-Chittagong
road also ref'lect the opening in 1977 of the Sitalakhya River Bridge (con-
structed under the First Highway Project) bypassing the existing inadequate
ferry crossing.
Problem Areas; and Experience with Previous Project
38.       The physical and economic conditions of Bangladesh have hindered
the developmetnt of an effective and efficient road network. The more impor-
tant of the constraints encountered in the past are described below.
(i) High construction costs due to the need to build roads above
flood levels, the high cost of pavement materials, and the
need for numerous and often large waterway crossings.



- 12 -
(ii) Poor standards of design, construction and construction
supervision resulting in roads which are inadequate for
present traffic levels.
(iii) Inexperience of local contractors in efficient execu-
tion of good quality work. The capability and experience
of domestic contractors are limited and there is a grave
shortage of competent and experienced contract adminis-
trators capable of dealing successfully with large contracts
or with major and complex implementation problems. In the
proposed project, therefore, contracts will be relatively
small and as simple as possible. Implementation problems
that can be identified in advance will be addressed before
contract award, leaving contractors to concentrate on
problems which could not be foreseen. Additional contract
management expertise will also be provided through con-
tract supervision consultants, and it is hoped to create
an environment in which the contractor, the supervisory
consultants, and the Government work together harmoniously.
The proposed project will allow adequate time so that the
relatively inexperienced contractors can1with reasonable
effort, achieve timely completion of project construction.
(iv)  Inadequacy of suitable construction plant and equipment.
Domestic contractors have to hire most of their construc-
tion plant from RHD. During the first two years of the
First Highway Project the shortage of plant in RHD together
with lack of adequate service and repair facilities placed
a critical constraint on the contractors and seriously
detracted from any benefits they could have gained from
efficient site management and planning. In addition,
contractors complained because RHD was unable to provide
and maintain construction plant.  RHD engineers recognized
that much of the criticism was valid but they were power-
less to rectify the situation. Consequently, staff morale
in RHD suffered and tension built up between contractors,
consultants and RHD engineers. The proposed project
addresses these problems through early identification of
equipment requirements, earmarking suitable available plant,
and provision for timely procurement of the balance of the
required machinery.
(v)  The short construction season, lasting for only seven months,
which means that each construction season, contractors must
be organized to commence work at full speed the mofent the
rains finish. There is no time for a slow build-up to peak
efficiency; otherwise much of the construction season would
be lost. This problem is particularly acute in the first
construction season. Thus, in the proposed project adequate
lead time has been allowed between contract award and the
start of the first construction season.



- 13 -
(vi) Inadequate maintenance. RHD is responsible for maintenance
of major roads totalling some 4,200 miles. Most major
roads were built to standards unsuited to present traffic
levels, being of inadequate width and insufficient strength.
As a result, strengthening and widening of roads is given
precedence over maintenance, in allocating scarce finances.
Periodic maintenance and improvement are carried out either
by force account operations or through contract. The Road
Maintenance Improvement and Rehabilitation Study will address
this problem and suggest remedies.
39.       A good deal of progress in dealing with these constraints was made
in the course of carrying out the First Highway Project (Credit 408-BD)
which reactivated a road project approved in 1964 (Credit No. 53-PAK).
Execution of the first project was slow particularly in the early stages.
Technical problems included shortages of appropriate plant and spares as well
as limited domestic contractor capability, and shortage of imported materials.
In the later stages of the project with improved availability of materials and
careful supervision of local contractors, project implementation improved
considerably and the road and bridge components are now virtually completed.
Marked improvements have also been recognized in the overall efficiency and
performance of RHD, specifically there has been improvement in supervising
consultants and contractors and in site management and organization. Sub-
stantial progress was achieved over the past two years in the speed of imple-
mentation and quality of work on the Feni by-pass which is comparable to the
work proposed to be financed under the proposed project,  In addition, IDA's
continued involvement through the proposed project is bringing about con-
tinued improvement in the performance of RHD and Bangladeshi contractors.
Further progress is both necessary and feasible. Under the proposed Credit,
the gains achieved under the first credit would be secured and improved upon
by the inclusion of the following special project elements:
(i) minimizing the use of high-cost pavement materials and
incorporating simple and standardized drainage structures;
(ii) employing competent and experienced consultants to prepare
specifications and designs appropriate to expected traffic
flows and to supervise construction in accordance with
approved specifications and designs. Many experienced
professional personnel have left the RHD to take up more
attractive posts abroad, with the result that the average
level of experience within the organization has dropped
during the last three years. The proposed project will
improve the situation by strengthening through consultancy
technical assistance RHD engineers capability to administer
and manage the proposed project. To this end GOB has
agreed to the appointment of a full time Superintending
Engineer as was done in the First Highway Project;
(iii) splitting the construction work into a number of compara-
tively small and simple contracts suitable for execution



- 14 -
by local contractors who will thus gain experience of
executing high-quality work under close supervision; and
(iv) advance identification of plant and equipment needs and
provision to RHD under the Credit of such plant as the
Government is unable to supply to contractors from its
own resources.
40.       External financing in the transport sub-sector has been limited and
consequently, IDA financing, though not large, is of major significance. The
GOB has indicated that it would like IDA to continue to play a lead role in
the future development of the sector. The proposed project would provide,
inter alia, an effective framework to further strengthen RHD's overall imple-
mentation capability and equip the latter for the critical role it would have
to play in future development and maintenance of the road network.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was prepared by RHD assisted by consultants
and by IDA. The consultants have completed all necessary project design and
documentation. The project was appraised in February 1979, and a report
entitled "Bangladesh - Second Highway Project Staff Appraisal Report," dated
August 7, 1979, No. 2607-BD, is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are summarized in Annex III to this report. Negotiations were
held in Dacca, Bangladesh during the week of November 5-9, 1979. The Bangladesh
delegation was led by Mr. Quazi Shamsul Alam, Joint Secretary, Ministry of
Finance.
Project Objectives
42.       The proposed project would help reduce transportation costs between
the principal port of Chittagong and the main areas of production and consump-
tion through the construction of bypasses around the towns of Chandina and
Comilla thus enabling through traffic to avoid the narrow and congested,
existing routes through the two towns. The entire Dacca-Chittagong road, of
which the proposed project is a part, was identified by IDA in 1963 as being
of the highest priority and worthy of financing. The First Highway Project,
as ultimately constructed, included only a small part of the whole road and
the Sitalakhya Bridge. The time which has elapsed since the first identifi-
cation has not diminished the importance of the road; indeed the severe
traffic constraints imposed by the congested towns of Comilla and Chandina
have intensified as traffic has increased.
Project Description
43.       The project has three basic components:
(i) the construction of two bypasses, 12.5 miles and 2.2 miles
long around the towns of Comilla and Chandina on the Dacca-
Chittagong road;



- 15 -
(ii)  the provision of mechanical equipment and spare parts for
construction work of (i) above; and
(iii) the provision of consultancy services for supervision
of construction.
44.       Construction of Bypasses.  Each of the two bypasses would provide
a two-lane road completely bypassing the town as an alternative route for
through traffic, designed to provide an acceptable level of service for
at least twenty years with a planned strengthening of the bituminous overlay
after five years.  The overlay would be constructed when required and prior
to December 31, 1982, a date will be agreed by GOB and IDA for such construc-
tion (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Agreement (DCA)). The routes
taken by the bypasses are flat, and both roads will be on an embankment
throughout their length to avoid inundation during the annual monsoon floods.
The land required for both bypasses has already been acquired.
45.       Provision of Mechanical Plant, Equipment and Spare Parts.  The
project alsc, covers the procurement of supplementary mechanical plant, equip-
ment and spare parts to complement existing equipment and to allow efficient
implementation of construction. The Government would make plant, equipment,
and spares procured under the Credit available to RHD which in turn would
hire out equipment to contractors selected for the construction works. The
Government will ensure that the equipment is properly maintained and repaired
by RHD in such a way as to avoid any delay to the construction work. On
project completion, plant and equipment procured under the project will be
utilized by RHD for use on other construction. The introduction of cost based
equipment hire charges by RHD is a major innovation and represents a signi-
ficant polic:y change on the part of the Government. Equipment hire rates
currently charged by GOB have not been revised as plant and spares costs have
increased and these hire charges do not, therefore, reflect the true cost to
GOB of hiring equipment to contractors. In order to redress this anomaly,
in future all plant and equipment hired by RHD to contractors would be hired
at realistic and economically justified rates (Section 3.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). This could also be the first step towards the
creation of a self financing equipment pool. This possibility will be pursued
further with the Government in the context of future road transport projects.
RHD has confirmed that it will make available adequate numbers of suitable
operators for equipment supplied to contractors.
46.       Consultancy Servicebs for Project Supervision.  Competent and
experienced consulting engineers will be employed for supervision of the
construction work; their appointment is a condition of credit effectiveness
(Sections 3.02 and 5.01(a) of DCA).
Project Implementation
47.       Implementation of t:he project will be the responsibility of RHD,
and the Government would assign responsibility for the project to a special
unit in RHD established for t:his purpose. The Government further would



- 16 -
establish and staff a site workshop for maintenance and repair of project
plant and equipment. Experience gained under Credit 408-BD indicates the
need for: timely appointment of consultants for supervision; adequate lead
time for contractors before commencing work on the first full construction
season; timely provision of adequate project plant and equipment; and allow-
ance of a construction period commensurate with project size and contractor
capability. This need is reflected in the timings of key elements of the
implementation schedule. In order that construction equipment procurement
can be expedited, the proposed credit would provide up to US$200,000 for
retroactive financing of equipment purchase.
48.       The roads to be constructed under the proposed project, together
with the road constructed under the First Highway Project, have a combined
length of only about 30 miles. Adequate maintenance of so small a length of
road and of the bridge and RHD headquarters building constructed under the
First Highway Project is within the present financial and technical capability
of RHD. The nationwide road maintenance requirements of Bangladesh are cur-
rently being analyzed through the MIRS and, GOB would consult with IDA on the
findings and recommendations of the study and discuss the possibility of IDA
financing a project designed to improve general maintenance practices and
standards.
Project Costs
49.       The total cost of the project (including taxes and duties of US$2.0
million) is estimated at US$13.6 million equivalent with a foreign exchange
cost of US$4.7 million equivalent (41% of the total cost net of taxes and
duties). Costs are based upon prices at January 1, 1979, with allowances for
physical and price contingencies. Bypass construction is estimated at about
US$6.4 million, plant equipment and spares at US$2.8 million, consulting
services at US$0.8 million, and contingencies at US$3.5 million. To avoid
any element of double counting of cost of equipment and spares to be procured
under the proposed credit or already procured under Credit 408-BD, equipment
hire charges (paragraph 45) are excluded from the construction cost estimates.
Financing Plan
50.       The proposed US$10.0 million Credit represents 86% of the total
project cost net of taxes and duties. The credit would finance total foreign
exchange cost plus about US$5.3 million equivalent of local cost. The remain-
ing project cost of about US$3.6 million would be met by GOB. IDA's willing-
ness to finance a high percentage of total project costs is justified on
project grounds by the major policy advances, e.g. introduction of cost
based equipment hire charges which the Government has agreed to adopt in
the context of this project.
Procurement
51.       Procurement of plant and equipment and construction services will
be in accordance with the Association's "Guidelines for Procurement" and
will be by international competitive bidding. Contracts and related docu-
mentations for goods and civil works valued at US$200,000 equivalent or more



- 17 -
would be subject to review by the Association.  Domestic contractors for
civil works would be accordecl a 7-1/2% preference and local manufacturers,
a 15% preference of the CIF price of imported goods or the custom duty, which-
ever is lower, in the evaluation of bids. Spare parts of existing equipment
may be pr. ui.ed on the basis of negotiated contracts from suppliers of the
original equipment; and contracts for off-the-shelf items costing up to
US$20,000 may be procured through normal government procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Association. The amount of such purchases, if any, would
be limited to US$200,000 in total.
Disbursements
52.       Disbursement will occur over a four-year period, and will be made
on the following basis:
(a) 72% of total costs net of equipment hire charges for
construction of Coinilla and Chandina bypasses;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for procurement of new
plant and spares; and
(c) 100% of total expenditures for consultancy services.
In order to expedite project execution procurement of some plant has begun
already, and it is proposed that IDA finance retroactively an amount of up
to US$200,000 for this purpose back dated to expenditures made after
October 1, 1979. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1983 (paragraph 47).
Project Approvals
53.       Government approval of the Project Proforma (an internal GOB docu-
ment which must be approved prior to the release of funds) is a condition of
effectiveness of the credit.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be about 18 percent for
the Comilla bypass, and about 16 percent for Chandina bypass. Benefits
arise principally from operating cost savings from route shortening and avoid-
ance of the difficult existing routes. In addition, the project is expected
to yield a number of benefits whose value cannot be quantified, including
reduced congestion, noise and pollution.
55.       Since the trucking industry is highly competitive, with freight
rates determined by the market, a fall in operating costs is expected to
result in a lowering of fre:ight rates. Hence benefits will be largely passed
on to consumers. On the other hand, a fall in operating costs of bus opera-
tors is unlikely to bring about a reduction in fares, which are controlled



- 18 -
by GOB and have been kept at a low level. Profitability will, however, be
improved and this will attract additional capacity into service, leading to
a reduction in present serious overcrowding.
56.       The project has been formulated so that with adequate consultancy
services for supervision the risks are no greater than can normally be expected
for a project of this type.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The only additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
credit are:
(a) appointment of consultants for supervision
(paragraph 46); and
(b) Government approval of the Project Proforma to the
project (paragraph 53).
59.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 26, 1979



- 19 -
-                          3      A      #IZCL  I=IC       S 
_~~~~~~~ 0311S (ASJUUT  AWAGU
AOATLNM4.0                                                            - AUM                 UK=
1966' &    1099   , suUUIAS            01M L&  O1  La
c P  CA       (IA  US$)            46.6        660       9.0           191.1      209.6       467.3
(XOUAKM  OF COAL ZqIIVALI)           -.         .       33.0             9.1       33.9       262.1
PO0ATIO  ID AND   L ShZShS
PO ,LAX0. lNIDal O.LIOUNS)    5L.46            6.3      81.2
an" POIL=ATU  (P         Of TOML) 5.2t          7.6       9.3           13.2       16.2        24.6
JO90LAUOU PSoJc?i0U
PO90L60  Is T111 2000 OILLION)                        145.0
SEATIOhAT FPO LAJOM0(XILLMS)                          334.0
TM     2Ul POPULATION TS IZC                         21U65.0
POPULATION DI5S5T2
PM SQ- 6K.                      357.0       474.0    564.0            66.6       49.4        45.3
PU SQ.  . AGZCU.URAL LAD    540.0          643.0    613.0            330.2      252.0       149.0
IOPULAUOU AOZ SUCrU  (PUCOf)
0-14 215.                        44.3        46.4     46.0            44-3       43.1       45.2
15-64 TU.                         52.3       51.0      31.0            52.4       53.2       51.9
65 RS. AND ADM2                    3.2         2.6      3.0             3.1        3.0         2.S
?OULATU  GWI1  RAT1 (PcUCnnT)
TOML                              2.4         2.9       2.5            2.4        2.4         2.7
Us                                 ..         6.7       6.3            4.1         .6          3
CIWI 51   AIS (M  tmWDu )           9.0       4U.0       46.0            -.4       42-4        39.4
c, U Dm   IAZZ (PUn nn UA )       23.0        20.0      18.0           16.4       15.9        11.7
own   uCflR Z I            C        3.5         3.1       3.2            3.2        2.9         2.7
CIUW, A05 (A)                   ..       345.6   1103.1
US (PUCUT OP maim  Um)                                 0 6* 8.9        7.9       12.2        13.2
AMsuo urzxow
-sSX OP Mm PRODUCTION
PU CA1PTA (1969-71-100)         107.3       101.0      960            99.4       96.2        99.6
P  CAPITA SUP?! OF
CAmLOZ (P19052T oP
R3lPfllWS)                     9".0Li      89.0      93.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
ROTEDS3 (CRlAS PM OLY)          42.6         ..       5.5            56.1       52.1        54.3
OF Wl1C1 A11AL AMD PUSIX        9.21        .. -      .0           10.4       U.6.        17.4
CLD  (ACUS  1-4) lIOUuLrr! R&TA    29.0        25.0      23.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
3ZALTR
tn  IIPUE&C  AT S11 (TEAlS)   42.0             45.0     47.0            49.1       49.3        54.7
I27AMT 0ALITy RATZ (PU1
5SDlSA*D)                                     153.0    140.0                      105.4        66.1
ACCESS TO SAP WATU  (PUCIT 0O
POPOLATIOU)
TOTAL                              ..        43.0      53.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
UR215                              ..        13.0      15.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
905L1                                        47.0     55.0            20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCMA DISPOSAL (PMUDCET
Oa POPULA1ION)
TOTAL                              .          6.0       5.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                                                 40.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                                                                  2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                     7600.01& 11350.0         7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PEIU xI7liG pIsoISO              72030.0/g 53700.0        12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PIU 8OSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         11000. 0h    8120.0/  4430.0          2738.4    1417.1        726.5
TRSAN                                                                   ..      197.3       272. 7
RlURAL                                                                         2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                                                       24.8        27.5
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                                             5.3         5.4
URBAN                                                                             4.9         5.1
RURAL                                                                             5.4         5.5
AVUAGE NUMSR  0  PERSONS PE R0011
TOTAL
UI[AN
RUAL
ACCESS TO ELECTELCITT (PERCENT
OF DWULLIN4GS)
TOTAL                                                                            22.5        28.1
URBAN                                                   3.0/.                    17. 8       45.1
RURAL                                                                                         9.9



- 20 -
Page 2
TAKLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UANCLADESH                 REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AypERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPEIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ZSTDIATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EFDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         61.0      83.0             59".5       63.3        82.7
MALE                 66.0         80.0      106.0            74.9        79.1         87.3
FEMALE               26.0         42.0       60.0            43.7        48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0         19.0      23.0             19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                  14.0        30.0       34.0             27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       11.0             10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.0        1.0             1.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..         49.0      55.0             42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                            ..         26.0      24.0               ..       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6/1         *-      22.0             25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.4       0.4/i            2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          6.0        ..             15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..              ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREsT") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       5.0              6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18516.0       23402.0  29900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2         16.5      17.0             21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.8         85.9      78.0             66.3       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3          3.5       7.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.6      34.4             35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 58.7         55.8      55.3             52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               11.4         11.8      12.1             15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3         1.4        1.3             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/t        16.7/k      ..               ..          ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.57j        42.37k       ..              ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/4         7.97k       ..              ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9LI        19.6/k      ..               .,          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     110.0             86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      91.0             74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0             44.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      74.0             52.4       53.9         37.5
INot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excludira the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for .970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  'e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita.
1976);  /f  Av. 1961-65;  /g  Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /h  Govt. establishments
only;  Ai  1972;  /J  1963-64;  ,k  1966-67;  /i  1962:  /m  1973.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-21 -
DEINrITIS OIP BOUIAL MnICATORS                                                                RS 
Notes: AlthoUgh thte data are drawn from souce  geoerally Judged the most authoritative end reliable, it should else he noted that they my not he interns-
tiThajuY coqPLrabl.e beeause of the lack of stendardized definitions mad concepts used by different countries is co1lecting the data. The date are, nonetheless,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate treDds, and charaterize certain major differences between countries.
The adjusted group averages for each indicator are pop,latios-.seighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the coat populated
country In each group. Due to lack of data, group averages of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and of indicators of Acesse to Water and Encreta
Disposal1, Hessing, Income Distribution and Poverty for other country groups are population-weighted geometric meas without exclusima of the extreme values and
the meat ppoplated country.  Sinc  te  coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availabiliy ofdtasd is not Uniform, coaution msait be exercised
in eltn   verae  oonidcarto smother. These averaes are mostly useful as approxmiations o"eeced" values when comaigthe vaLLues of one
Indcaor  t    tie  Ngm the country and reference groups.
LAW) ABIM  (thotaand sqka.)                                                              Access to Exereta Disposal (ecnofpultin- tota,ubnadrrl-
'GZTotal surface are  comprising lend area, end inland waters.                        Ushro   epe(oa,uban, adrura.l)ierved by eceadsoa 
Agric-ultural -  tat recent estlate of agricultural area used temporarily                 percentages of their respective populations. Excrete disposal. may isciude
or psemantly' for crops, pastures, maket aod kitchen gardens or to                     the collection and disposal, with or without treatment, of human exerete
lie fallow,                                                                             and waste-water by water-borne system  or the use of pit privies and sunilar
TT0UtPrA(I   - G   per capita esatimates at current market prices,                        Pimt5latlon pe  psian- Population divided by number of practicing physicians
cluaeby same csonversiona method en World Dank Atlas (1976-78 basis);              qualified froe, a medical school at university level
1960, 1.970, and 1L973 data.                                                            Pouaio per Nursing Person - Population divided by nuster of practicing sale
flMStMYa CMffIJPTIOW FM CAPITM    Aspasal counsumption of comercial energy                 apnd  emale graduate nurses, practical nurses, and assistant nurses.
(coa  mad lignite,ptrlu,   natural gas and hydro-, enucear and geno-                   Population per Hospital Red - total, urban  ad  rura  - Population (total, urban,
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coalI equivaeot per capita; 190                      and rural) divided by thir respective ouer of hospital beds available in
1970, mad 1976 gaLa,                                                                      public and private geer1 and specialized hostpital and rehabilitatisn centers
Hospit als are establishments permanently staffed by at leant one physician.
POFUtATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             Establishnents providing principalIly custodial care are not included. Poer).
Total mPppl.ation. mid-Tear (m1iins  - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                      hospitals, however, Include health and medical centers not permanently staftics
1977 data,                                                                             by a physician (but by a medical.. asistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer
liche  Population (pecn  of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                  in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range of medical facilities.
different definito   of orbs areas way affect comparability of data                  Admissions per Hospital Bed - Total  unuber of admissions to or discharges from
among conres   90  17,an   95daa                                                         opitals divided by the outber of beds.
PouainProjections
popal.tion in year 2000 - Current population projectiona arm bused 00              HOUJSING
1975 total population by age and  en and their mortality and fertility             Average Sice of Huehold (pron  per  houehld) - total, urban, and -rurl -
rates. Prcjection paamters for mortality rates coprise of there                      A household consits of agru  of        'dvduals who shore living quarters and
levels -awningla ilfe eapetwncy at birth increasing with country's                   their main meals. A boarder or lodger my cc coy not be included as the
per capita incm  level, and femamle life expectancy stabilizing at                   hous.ehold for statistical purposes.
77.5 years.  The parameters for fertility rate also har  three levels              Average number of persons per room - total, urban  and rural - Average number
assuming deems In fertility according to inom  level and past                        of persons per room In all urban, and rural occpied con-ention..I dwellings,
family Planning performance. Each coutry is then assigned one of these               respectively.  Dwellings es-lode son-perxsnent structures and  naoccupicd pseoc..
nine conbinations of mortality and fertility treds for projection                  Access to Electricity (ercent of dwellings) - total, urban, and cra,l -  Co-
purposes.                                                       ven~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tional dwlig   ith elec tricity In living quarters so percentage of
Statonrypopulation - In a s.tationary population there in no groth                     total, urban, and rura  duelliago respectively.
since the birth rate is equal to the death rate, end also the age
strutur  remaiss constant. This is achieved only after fertility rates          EOUCATION
decline to the repl-acment levei of unit net reproduction rate, when              A-djusted Enrollment Ratios
each goueration of wm   replaces itself exactly.  The stationary popu-               Primary school - total, male and female   Gross total,  ale and female enrol-
latin nice was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics                  sent of all ages at the primary level aspercentages of respective primary
of the poPulation in the year 2000, anod the rate of decline of fertility               shchol-age populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 ye-ar  but
rats to relceetlevel,                                                                   adjusted for differen.t lengths of primary educatios; for countries with
Tear stationr   poplation is reached - The year dies stationary population                unIversal education enrollment nay exced 100 percent since som  pupils
nie  a  been reahed.                                                                 are below or above the offIiail school ag.
PouaIon Density                                                                       Secondr scol-ttl   aeadfemale - Computed -as s-e; secndary
Per so. km. - mAd-yea  population per square kilonter (100 hectares) of                  educton rqie  at leat fur years of approved prsiar,y instruction;
ttal  Zens                                                                             provides general voctional, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Per s   m  agricultural land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   usu ally of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondenc.e courses see ginernilly
Only.                                                                                   excludded.
Population Age Structure (percent) - Chiidrem  (0-i4 years), workIng-age                 Vocational eorolnnt (percent of secoodor) - vocational z1tiuoosseide
(15-64 year)  and retired (h  years sod over) as percentages of mid-year                 technical,I idsrial, or other programs which operate indepeod-otly or a
population;19, 190,ad 197daI                                                              departments of secondary institstzons.
Population Grwt   ate (percn)-ttl-  no    rwh rates of total mid-                         Pupil-teacher ratio -rmr,adscondary -Ttlsuet   aoldi
yerpopulations for 1950-60, 1950-70, and 1970-77.                                      priamar   n eory     y  eesdiie  b   ubrs of teachers is the -cr-
Poplaton Growth Rate (percent) I- urban - Anual1 growth rates of urban                      spending levels.
populations for 1950-60, 19b0-70, and 1970-75.                                         Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to red and write) so
Crude Birth Rate (pr thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of mid-                    apercentage of total adult population aged 15 ye-ar  sod Over.
yea  populatio   1b,10, and 1977 data.
CueDahRat.pe  r thounend) - An,sial deaths per thousand of  ild-ycar           CONSOMPTIONR
i~itmon;9l0 ,I1970iiWd9T7 data.                                                   Paseager Curs (per thousand pspulation) - Passen.ger oars .o.Pr... astor c-ar
Gross I Rrdution Rate - Avenage nmuter of daughters a wossn will bcar                     seating less than eight persons.; exIclue  ambulances, hearses and ailtary
in her noma rep-oduetive period if she expericocco present age-                        vehchles.
specific fertility rates; wusualy five-year averages ending so 1960,                 Radio Receiver  (per thousand population) - All types of recivers for rsd-o
1970, and 1975.                                                                        broadcasts to general public per thousand of pepulisiso; excludes unlicensed
Family Planing - Acceptor. Annual (thouands) - Annua number of                            reeivers so countries and on ycars when registratiso  of rsdsstsosss n
acceptors of birth-control devices ander siopicco of sationsi family                   effect; dais for recet years my not be coparobic  sooc a. .:t coutries
planning progr-m                                                                       abolished Iocesozag.
Family Planning - Ulero (prerct of married  coo)-Percentag  sf  -oried                TV Receivers (per thouand popultoon) - TV reccirr  for brosstt   eea
wmnof child-bearing age (1-t  ee)woucbirth-onteol devices                           public pee thousand population; excludes o1nlocnd TV recivrssooo -tzr
to all smeied woe  is nam  age group.                                                   and in yearn when registration of TV ..t. was sn effect.
TON                                                           d:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bwoae  Co,rculatios  (per thousand pouainI_ Iosteaeag   sclto
FOUP AND RUTRITIO                                                                           o"dily general int.eret newspaper, ldefined onapor-od-a1 poblivatoos
laNde. 7iUWof       tin  erCait  (1969-71=100) - Codes of per capita                      devoted primurily to recording geeral news.  St is considered to be  'dosly'
amanal production of .li fond cssmditien. Prodoetios excludes seed and                 sf it appears at least four tomes a week.
feed and is on calendar year basIs.  Conedlizes cover prisary goods                    ieadna.tedneprCpt  e   er-bsds  ti  nobroftiet
(e.g-.-smacae i-ateado  sugar wihae edible and contain nutrient                        solId during the year, including ndaii-sions to driv-ia        -. c,an sd noh 
(e.g. coffee sod tsa arc esciuded).  Aggregate production of each voontry               ests.
Is base  on nationa  average producer Price weights.
Per capita  "pplY of caloriles (percnt of reguor-ets  - Cosputed fron              [ABOs FORCE
enray equivalent of net fund nupplico avaisable io ossotry per capita              Total Labor Porce (thousands) - Fconsoscally actsve persons, -scludlng cr
per day.  Available  spiliico cepri-e dometic pr-i-tio-, inp-rt  less                force  and unemployed but ecloding ho-e-ve, students, etc. lrfi ti.
exPOrts, and changes is stock.  Net supplies  c.lodv aninal foci, needs,             io vaious coun tiren are .ot c-mparble
quatitiro used in food prunesoing, and l-.e.ssc    ndlersbutocs. Require-          EL  ..pop)- F emal  labor force so peroes.tage of itotl labor frce.
masts were estimated by fAO based on phys-iolgiosi  -'ds for norma Ig AS                     ,,,cent) - labor force on frarmog, forestry, hunting and
_ct iity and health cons.idering va- -srtal temperture, body weights,                fishing as percentage of total labor force.
age and .es diotribotiona of populati,n, and allowing 10 perorot for               Industry )percent) - Labor force so noig, cons.trutton,  anufooturing sod
wast aPt. houseold level.                                                             electicity, water  dendgas asperc,tageo  total labor fore
Pee  xci  suply  f prtei  (grinsper dsy) - Protini Itcntes  of per         Prisaonse(pcnt-ttl,me,and ironic - Participationo
caPitane   upply of food per day' net supply of food is detiord an                   acticoty rates are computed so total, male, s-d feanir bier force as Per-
abort. Requirements for all countries established by USDA5 provode for a              contages of total, male and female population of nil age  respectively;
sinimam allowance of 60 grass of total protein per day and 20 grams of               1960, 1970, and 1975 data.  Thes  are I1,0s parti-ipatsoz rates reflecting
-.s-I and pulse protein, of which 10 groin  should be animal protein.                age-sen structure of the pop.latoon, and long Isce trend.  A fee estisamtes
Thene standards arelower than those of 75 grsa  of total protein sod                 ore from notional  sources.
25 gran  of anisa  protein us an average foe the world, proposed by FAG            Econoic Dependency Ratio -  Ratso of population under 15 and 65 and ove  to
is the Tird World rood Surry.                                                        the labor force on age group of 15-64 ycaro.
Per cputaproteis supply from moItl and poise - Protesn supply of food
derived from animals and pulses in grm    e   a.INCOME DISTRIHBUTION
Child (ages 1S) Purtaloty Sate (per toad)- Anosa1 deatho per thousad                    Percetage of Private Income (both on cash and bond) - Recived by richest
oniagc groupi114 ycro, 'to children in thIs ng,a...rop; for soot devel-                5 percet, richest 20 percet, poores t 20 percent, and poorest t0 percent
oping coutrIes data derived from life tables,                                          of bhuoehoda.
HEALTH                                                                                 POVCRTY TARGET GROUPS
Life ExpectancY at Rirth (Years) - Average nuber of years of Life                      Estimated Absoiste Poverty Ice  Level (U1$ Per capita) - -rban aos r-rl 
remaining at birth; 19b0, 1970, and 1977. data.                                        Absolute po-eety  moo_ level is that incooc leve  bebo ebsth a  -o-cl
infant Ss_tality Rate (per thousand) - nA-uaI ivatho of infants under one                nutrotiso-lly adeqato diet pilo voeosl  o-food requirenet sosost
year of age per thousand live births,                                                   affordable.
Access to Safe Water (Percent if  Poplation) - total, urban, and rura  -                Estimated Hcltiv  Poverty Incme level (U   Per capita) - orban and rural-
Rooter of people (total, urban, and rural) with .r.a...ableccs  to                      Rural r-.atoe pocety  .on  .ec.. is on-third of avrage per capita
so. e_-r  soP o tly  _ (Isodes treated surfac  waters or untreated but                 personal  --os  of tie coutry. Urban lesel is derivd from the rura  ico1
unooxtami-teId wtr soch as tiat fro  protected breholes, opro.ag,                       with adjustxeot for higier coot of llivig on urban ara..
and sacUary wells)_aspercentages of their  -pe-tic- populnt-sn. In                   Estimated Poplatio  iEs1 Absolute Poverty Incom%e-Leve (prot( - urba  sod
an set" s-cae  a public fountain or otanipsat located noct acre than                   coral - Percent of population (urban and r_ral  sic arc agbooteI po..
20C meter from a house may be ounside-ed as being within reasonable
tohes  of that house.  In rura  area ...ea..nsblc anvess ouId  .impl
tht the hosoesife or members of the bcusebcld do not have to spend                                                           E-iosic and Social Ieta Divisc
d-pr-portion-tc part of' the doy so fetching tie fonolys cater needs                                                     E--soes  Asslysis nod Projocti... lcp-rto-t
Auguot 1979



22-
Av.
AV. 197-69  _____Actual_    1t76t7d                             1960-   1965-    197 3-           1,967-69 1974/75 1977/78
Av. 167-6   i972/73  1.974/75   197/77            117_7            1965    1970       1978
HA~l ~NUACCO~UNTS             In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rte               iverae Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of GIIY
Grtis,. Domestic Pronoact         6.012    5,833    6,514         7,255              7t,533.                   3.3       6.1           98.5   101.8   101.1
(ussns from Terms, of Trade (.)       89         -     -117        -148                -88                                              1.5    -1.8    -1.1
;r,sDoeti,ncm                     6,101    5,833   C637           7,07               7,74             5.6     25        5.8          1700.0  1700.0   100.0
!Tapi,r'. (inc]. NFPS)              879       747       703         506                791           20.6      6.8       0.7           14.4    11.0    10.2
Exports   '  (import capacity)-   598         369       197         243                315           12.3   -14.6       -3.2            9.8      3.1      4.1
Resource Gap                         281      378       506         263               WT6F                                              4.6    -7.9
Consumption Expenditures          5,668    5,817    6,404         6,764              7,521            5.7      3.6       5.2           92.9   100.1    97.1
Investment   "1 (incl. stocks)    714         394       499         660                700           13.3      8.8      12.2           12.9      7.8      9.0
Domiestic Savings                   433         16       -6         343                29             4.3    10.0       72.0            6.8    -0.1       2.9
National Savings                    416         32       10         378                279            8.7    20.5       56.3            7.1      0.2      3,6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent of Total.
Imports
capital goods                       .       100       135         227                318              ,       .       22.9             .      16.8    23.5
Intermediate goods (acclfuels)    .         176       386         270               459                        .     21.9              .      30.4    34.1
Fuels and related materials
of which: Petroleum               .        23       155         141                166             .        ..     48.5              ..     10.     123
Cons   tin goods                    ..      428       72           ,~406                             ,.       .A..                           42.8    s.
1  erch . Iorts (elf)        547      727     140            851,9                                              12.210.                         100
Exports
Primsary products ~xcl. fuels)      .       145       119         220                203              .        .       7.0             .      40.9    40.
Fuels and related materials
of which: Petroleum
Manufactured &oods                          195       239         240                294              ,       ..       8.5          ___       59,1    59.2
Toti Mrh. Exorts (fob)           45T       -m        -I           1I                r9                                 7.9                   100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border Trade
Merchandise Trade Indices                      A erae1972-73 -100
Export Price Index                 61R      100`   13             118               137               .       .       6.5
Ir,port Price Index                52       100       215         189               150              .        .      12.5
T~rms of Trade Index              118       100        62          62                76              ..       ..      5.6
Exports Volume Index              148       100        80         115               107               .       .       1.5
.ALUJI ADDED RY SECTOR  Annial Data at 197-73 Prices and Exchange Rates             Average xnra.al.GotRae              At, Percent of Total
Agricuitur,                     3,542    3,403    3,712        4,020              4,318              .        .       4.8             59        59       57
Industry wmu Mining               420       412      466         582                642              .       .        9.2              7         7       8
Service                         2,050    1,4       2.146       24&Z                                  ..      ..       7.4            _34       34       35
Totai                  ~~~~6,012    5,663    6,324     7,044              7,605                               6.1           100       100      100
PULI  FIACAs Fee.- 
(C~entral Government)
Cirycnt Peceipts                  317       250       469         563               665               .       .      34.2           5.3        7.2     8.5
Expennita.res            365       364       419         464               553               .       ..     16.8            6.1       6.4      7.1
leD   ry lavlinge              -48      484        50          99                112                                            -0.8       0.8      1.4
c'.,  r- lhe Sectcr                .          .        .            ..                               .        .
P,-i      ctor investment    421       239i      248'        516               514              .        ..     10.3           7.0'       3.8      6.6
ussmilonn
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                             Actual                   sit           DETAIL ON                            At Av.  1977/78  P and ER
As C Total Current Expend.)              1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 19ZL76        197/7         PUBLIC SECTOR                      Two-Year Plan   7, of Total
Education                                  ..      15.5   _T._   U--.            13.0       INVESTMENT PPOGRAM                       (1978/79  I-9T978703
other  ~oclal Servi-                       .        4.5      3.6      4.2         4.9       Social Sectors                              287        13.2
Agriculture and                                                                             Agriculture                                 600        27.6
other Economic Services                  .         5.0    12.5      6.6         7.0        industry and Mining                        380         17.5
Administration and Defense                 .        70.4    57.1    61.5         61.2       Power                                       314        14.4
Other                                      .        4.6    12.3    15.3          13.9       Transport and communications                387        17.8
Total Current Expenditures                        100.0   100.0   100.0         100.0       Other                                       206         9,5
_______   ____________________________________________________________    TotalotalExpendituress2,1744                       100.0
SEIECTED -N.Lt'ATORS                                1960-      1965-       1973-              FINANCING
(Calculated fron 3-year averaged data)              1965       1970        1976
Average ICOR                                           ..        74        0.5-9                  Fatlic S,-ctor Savings                  557        25.6
Deport Elasticity                                      .       1.29        1.11                  Program aid counterpart                  838        38.6
Mrginal DDmestic Savings Rate                          .       0.22        0.05                   Foreign Projact Aid                     605        27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                         .       0.35        0.05                  other (incl. dom, borrowing)             174         8.0
Total Financing                      2,174       100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per ,Worker (172-73   Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Millions           of Total           19 61 -73          In U.S.Dollars      Pecent of Aver~ge           19 70 -73
19 60/61    19 72/73 19 60/61   1972/73  Growth Rate         i1969/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73  G,rowth Rate
Agriculture                        16.1        20.5      85        78          2.0                ..         166        ..76
Industry                            1.0         1.8       5         7          5.0               ..         229         ..105
Service                             1.8         3.9      10        15          6.7                --        484                     222222
Total                              1_8.9       26.72    100       ioo0         2.8              246         217        t00         10-0         -4.9
cot applicalile        -nil or neg-Ligible
not available         -  less than half the smallest unit showgn
Rote:  Fiures or  on ficlyo   aI   Jl -Jude 80).D.ts prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/1 Plan targets.



- 23 -
{__~~~ kE*.4,ai_*eWlenb
SU370RY SLANuE OF PIWTS
~~ort. (intl. tus)               2~~13         369           334          329           563             6"                        15.7
R Mn639                                                  -747        -1,402         -957         -1.27           1,779  U.7
athtot (net)                 I
Diret   er .nt 7Incom
'tere.  Remlttanc                             ..           45              7           66            63              9
a S      5     i                   ..         -333        7;_            -3ef2        T7             _IOS                         1z3,
Prit. OiC.et Investment                                   a2            397           229           386            400                       13.6
Ofrici. C.Pit.1 aSDe ..
Public  'S W                                                            327           273           411            6ff                        5.2
-iEr_^a. .     -25       -16           -51             -54                          -
j 257 3ea e~~~~~~~~~~~41                                                                                     -T.8
OthSr no 1_
Di.hw.mot.
_ft  Dibw       t
CepiOsi T2.ntle  0.0.1.            ..        .-25              .34.          .16                         33
Cb.it I0 Tr I...nw    (-.. loao..i            ..          -20          -196           -80            24              25                                 At33  Ed
GrWo  Flc..r  (_ed pioc)                      ..            7                                                  r    AliD  L  a24417
DEN  AND2 EDT 24071CR                                        1     205         2
Pobli2  Dset Ott  & Dibbr.ed        228      1,366      1,812      2,065        2.f
0. 1       01M           -. i                             514            368          338           452            -hPent         l eeDPeb2 rt        -         25         21          7           x
Repqo,ents Or  obli.l  Debt         -         2           8          1
Tot. 1blic Dabt Service                       35         99         42
P.bli0 9k1T l                                 .              -                          -             -           Otheo Debt Serv-o  (net)       - 
I7D2                                                    56            150           50            211          Total Debt Servit. (ret)
Otbar _Iti1-tsra1                                       204           676           200           276        B-d.. on Er,t BErniOg  (2)
sespiler.                     *.          ~~      ~     ~~ ~ ~~~55  17       2      11Dbt2m,96                                                           2.         79          17
piSson    Io,tltit"t-e                                    -              -            5            13          Pablic Dbt Sa-l9 8                                      22 4        7 9o
U.                                          ..                           -            -             -          Tot.1 Debt Swvioe
Tot        it        i LT                                                                                          s -Dirt         t .  IC.
---- A     rer mTe    of Publi  Debt
Aetu l Dsbt Ovt.tcdt   on Joo-  10, 1978                             Dnt. as % Prior 7o_r WU             ..       LJ                     I A         L4
STQitAL  Lb                                                                      ItOslWiFet                         Aoort. *a   Prior !ew  MO           .       5.6          3.7     .9             Li
lorld 3ani                                                                         2
tUA                                                    .554                      21 7                          IERD Debt Dolt.& Disb-rod
Other IhWt l.t-a1                                        64                        2.5                           r   s% Prblic Do t 0z)                       4_           M          2 ff
3Onvernmets                                          1,746                        68.4                               0 4 PabliUoebt S,Io
R"1, -                                                 ill                         4.3
F       I-1a  Tot.ttions                                 26                        1,0                         MA Debt Out. & Dinborc.d
ono                                                                                                              ' _  an %  ublicL Debt 0Di         7.1      18.7        21.0        22.7         6.7
Ptblic Debto n-.o.                                                                                              "  an I Fablio Debt Servlie            -      2.3         S.          7.5         4.9
Total Publi- M6LT Debt                               2,556                       100.0
Other 4LT D0bt.
Short-to- Debt (di.b. ool7)
not appl-able                                                        e  st.ff "titn
not ava- lablo                                                       -  nil or negligible
not onollablo oepartly                                              --  Io., than half th1
bot in-Iqdod in total                                                    o.flaet =nit 560wn                                                                                        M-cmev 1978



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1979)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                    54.9    428.3         -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.0       1.8
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.0        .5
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.0       1.9
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.3        .2
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.0       3.8
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.0       5.3
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.5       4.4
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.7       1.0
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                 20.0      11.4
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.0      28.1
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.0      10.2
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.0      19.4
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.0      13.6
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.0       7.6
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                    7.5       4.6
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.0      14.2
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.0      11.4



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                        Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                         16.0      15.9
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                         21.0     19.1
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                    10.0      9.1
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                  5.0      4.1
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                        75.0      9.2
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                      21.0     18.8
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                      25.0     25.0
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                    7.0       7.0
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                      6.0      5.9
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                19.0      19.0
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                       75.0     29.5
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                  10.0      10.0
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                      6.0      6.0 /b
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                       25.0     25.0 /c
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                          32.0      32.0 /b
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
District                               28.0      28.0 /b
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.0      22.0 /b
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports             25.0     25.0
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
FLood Control                          25.0      25.0 /b
Total,                                                     54.9  1,209.3    475.0
of which has been repaid                                  0         0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,208.9
Total undisbursed                                           0       475.0    475.0
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.
/c   Became effective November 1979.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: January 31, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads) have
been substantially completed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Tele-
communications and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding generally
satisfactorily. However some deficiencies have been found in the construc-
tion and maintenance of project facilities. The Government has agreed to
draw up a plan of action for remedying these deficiencies during the next
construction season. A further extension of the Closing Date for this purpose
is under consideration.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expected to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development has started.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. All 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily.  Agricultural
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
development for 2400 wells started in the winter 1978/1979. It is estimated
that there will be a saving of $1.5 million which would be earmarked for
Command Are- Development (CAD), and to increase spare parts. A further
extension .  he Closing Date for this purpose is under consideration.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers' 
interest is high. Staff moraLe has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway but are being delayed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment are undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.



- 28 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the various ministries and
agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization and ineffective super-
vision of the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system
(complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project
personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural
credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook
a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an
action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government
in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been
received and have been reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. The first phase of orders are being placed



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
for at least 3,000 tubewells with suppliers. Construction of workshops
along with tools and machinery for the workshops have been ordered.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing  Date:  June 30,
1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consulitants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
The project is operating reasonably well in the Bogra District,
but not so well in the other districts where lack of transportation impeded
adequate supervision of extension efforts. The situation should improve with
the arrival of additional vehicles.  Key problems are coordination between
research and extension, selection of contact farmers and their attendance
during extension agent visits, and inadequate local currency support. In
addition extension agents need to be instructed to limit the number of points
to be covered in each farmer training session. Project staff are working
toward achieving improvements in these areas.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
One year after efi.ectiveness, project actions are proceeding
steadily: the first batch of construction contracts, out of a total of



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
possibly 10 batches, have been awarded; equipment procurement is well under-
way and the project construction, implementation and monitoring units have
been established. Improvements in the system for domestic food procurement
have been identified for implementation in 1979 aman season. A pilot project
for paddy marketing by farmer cooperatives is doing well in its early stages.
However, delays in full staffing and in land acquisition, and inadequate
financial allocations for the project in GOB Annual Development Plans could
slow down progress in the future.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory and all par-
ticipating institutions are cooperating fully. The revised plans for
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) headquarters building and
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) research stations
have been approved by IDA and prequalification of contractors has been com-
pleted. The BARC Technical Working Groups are progressing satisfactorily.
Progress has been made in selecting the candidates for the PhD training
scheme. Action is needed to (i) fill positions of BARDC Executive Vice
Chairman and two other Board members; (ii) complete PhD overseas training
arrangements and initiate M.Sc. training arrangements in Bangladesh;
(iii) recruit consultants; and (iv) prepare National Research Plan.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the
Government in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. Little work
proceeded meanwhile. All effectiveness conditions were finally met by
October 19, 1979.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 8
Industry and Imports Prograi. Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date:  August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Ihe project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total
of about US$182 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site
preparation work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed
on schedule. however, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist
consulting firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect
the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the project is about 32 months
behind schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial
slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning
for construction.  Due to the need for additional site work, the delays and
currency fluctuations, supplemental financing was required. Most of the
required financing has now been obtained. Arrangements are currently under
discussion with several agencies for the provision of the remaining US$15
million of foreign exchange estimated to be required for the project. The
soil compaction and foundat:ion work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided in
the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of October 31, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.3 million from the credit, for 116 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$13.6 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been approved for US$4.7 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of October 31, 1979 disbursements were US$65.8 million and QAR
had been approved for US$6.8 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31,1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small



- 32 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of October 31, 1979 disbursements were about $45.5 million and
QAR had been approved for $17.2 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the Bangladesh Agricultural
University (BAU), construction of five new and equipping of eight existing
technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is now 70% complete
but 30 months behind schedule. Work is currently at a standstill because
of local fund shortages. About 80% of the equipment has been procured. Out
of the 8 fellowships, 7 will be completed in December 1980. Practical train-
ing at the University is satisfactory. One half of the training time is
devoted to practical work. Research and extension activities have been
improved and coordinated by collaborating with the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Council and the Agricultural Extension Service. Civil works of the
Technical Education Component although 30 months behind schedule is virtually
complete and the polytechnics are now operating. About 75% of the equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by the students. The poly-
technic curriculum has been revised by a panel of Government and private
industry experts.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
about 80% on weighted average. Procurement of instructional equipment is



33 -                ANNEX II
Page 10
progressing satisfactorily. Training of teachers for the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of
instructors to the extension st:aff to benefit from a recent upgrading of
positions, which was not extenied to the ATI staff.  Little progress has
been made on the recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development
of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Ef.fective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This project has juslt been declared effective. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is presently understaffed have only the project
architect and an acting project: coordinator. The Project Manager (consultant)
has already been selected. The furniture and equipment for the PIU office
would be purchased in the near future. It is expected that the PIU would
be fully staffed by December 1979.
Population Pro)ect
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance,
which declined during the three months preceding the parliamentary elections
in February 1979, has improved again. The internal reorganization of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by
the management study, is underway. This reorganization will not be effective
in improving program implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill
its large number of vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions;
and (b) simplify the administrative, financial and recruitment procedures.
Actions have been assured by the Government on both counts. A program has
been started for the retraining of field workers which should improve their
performance. While the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare
Centers, built through community participation, has been encouraging, the
progress on other buildings in the project has been slower than expected by
the last mission. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of the
credit has also shown less than expected improvements.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed.  Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$7.7 million (88% of the
Credit).
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, all consultants contracts have now been signed and work is underway.



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. A fourth microwave system, equipment for which
was ordered together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, was
commissioned during June 1979, completing the project four years behind
schedule.  Some amounts are still outstanding for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 19-79
The project is about three years behind schedule due to delays in
procurement, civil works, and reduced output of domestic switching equipment
factory. About two-thirds of the credit was committed up to April 1979. Out-
side expertise has now been obtained to draft technical specifications of the
national trunk and international switching equipment still to be procured;
corresponding commitments under the credit are now expected to be made by end
1979. The rate of physical installations is improving; during 1978, 14,000
lines of exchange equipment were installed, which is better than the 1977
performance of about 10,000 lines.  In February 1979, a new ordinance for the
Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB) was issued; complementary executive orders
and regulations governing the functioning of the Board and specifying its
managerial and financial structure have been drafted, and are being reviewed.
The implementation of a commercial accounting system has just begun. In the
absence of satisfactory accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial
position of the beneficiary but estimates indicate that it may be improved,
in particular in consideration of TTB's development requirements. The project
has been extended on an interim basis to permit issuance of regulations and
full implementation of the commercial accounting system recently introduced.
Project completion is expected in December, 1980.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date:  January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 10 subprojects
totaling about $5.5 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3.2 million have been approved in principle, and would be
expected to be committed before the end of this fiscal year. The project is
progressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0
Million Credit of June 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 37 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1
BAkNGLADESH
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
SECTION I.      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
The project was identified in December 1978.
(b)  Agency preparing the project:
Government's consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first mission
to consider the project:
December 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
January 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
November 5-9, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
May 15, 1980
SECTION II.    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
SECTION III.   Special Conditions
(a) GOB to agree on a date for pavement strengthening of the
bituminous overlay after five years (paragraph 44);
(b)  RHD to provide necessary supervision and support
services (paragraph 58).



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) additional condition of effectiveness would be:
(i)  GOB to have contracted to employ consultants including
a Senior Resident Engineer and a Resident Engineer for
supervision (paragraph 46); and
(ii)  Approval by the Government of a Project Proforma
(paragraph 58).



