]Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18105
IMPLEMENTATICN COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Loan 3119-IN
June 30, 1998
Finance and Private Sector Development Division
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. It:s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 28, 1998)
Currency Unit           Indian Rupee (Rs.)
Rupee 1                  US$0.023
US$1.00                  Rupee 42.71
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSIR                     Council of Scientific & Industrial Research
Gol                      Government of India
IDA                      Intemational Development Association
lDBI                     Industrial Development Bank of India
ICICI                    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
ITD                      Industrial Technology Development
NCL                      National Chemical Laboratory
NICs                     Newly Industrializing Countries
OED                      Operations Evaluation Division
OTCEI                    Over-the-Counter Exchange of India
SPREAD                   Sponsored R&D
TG                       Technology Group
TDF                      Technology Development Fund
Tls                      Technology Institutions
UTI                      Unit Trust of India
VC                       Venture Capital
VCC                      Venture Capital Company
WB                       World Bank
Vice President           Mieko Nishimizu
Director                 Edwin Lim
Sector Manager           Marilou Uy
Task Manager             Sanjay Kathuria



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3119-IN/ CREDIT 2064-IN/ JAPAN GRANT 2700-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..............................................................        i
PART l: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Objectives .I
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives .3
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors                      .         .7
D. Bank Performance                                   ..8
E.  Borrower Performance                                ..8
F.  Assessment of Outcome                                ..8
G.  Project Sustainability                             ..8
H.  Future Operations    ..10
1.  Key Lessons Learned                   ..11
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ......................................... ..................   16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...........................................................  i 7
Table 3: Project Timetable ...................   ........................................  17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements ............................................ ...............  18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..............................................  18
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project ..............................................................18
Table 7: Project Costs ...........................................................       19
Table 8: Project Financing ...................   ........................................  19
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................ ...............  19
Table I 0:Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................................   19
APPENDIX I  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ..............................................  20-38
APPENDIX 11 Aide Memoire ...........................................................     39-45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDIA
Loan 3119-IN/Credit 2064-IN/Japan Grant 2700-IN
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Technology Project in India for which Loan
3119-IN and Credit 2064-IN in the amount of US$ 200 million equivalent was approved on December 8, 1989 and
made effective on May 1, 1990. Japan Grant 2700-IN was signed on March 28, 1990 and'made effective on May 1,
1990.
The loan/credit/grant was closed on December 31, 1997 instead of December 31, 1995 which was the original closing
date. The last disbursement took place on May 19, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Sanjaya Lall (Oxford University) and Ms. Manjula Luthria (PSDBE) with the help of
Ms. Harpinder Oberai (Consultant), under the supervision of Mr. Sanjay Kathuria, SASPR, task manager. The ICR was
reviewed by Ms. Marilou Uy (SASFP), Ms. Shideh Hadian (SASFP), Mr. Ashoka Mody (PFG), Mr. Jan Peter Wogart
(CA2DR).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final completion mission in January 1998. It is based oni material in
the pro ject files as well as information received during the mission. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR
by providing written input which is attached with this ICR.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objective
The overall objective of the project was to facilitate the acquisition and development of technology by industrial
firms in India. It aimed to balance existing domestic technological capability with import of foreign technology.
and reduce the financial constraints to new technology ventures and the foreign exchange constraint to technology
import. The project had three components:
a) Helping small, innovative firms obtain financing by supporting the development of venture capital (VC) in India.
This $ 45 million loan component originally aimed to support four venture capital entities and finance perhaps 150
enterprises.
b) Upgrading research and standards institutions to provide technology services to industry and promoting
collaboration between industry and research institutions. This technology services component was expected to
upgrade the facilities and build the industrial support programs of 12 - 15 technology institutions (Tls) for $ 40
million: and provide $ 15 million to about 60 firms to finance R&D projects contracted with TIs.
c) Financing the import of technology and technical know-how by industry by supporting the the fast-track
Techlnology Development Fund (TDF), with $ 100 imillion equivalent of loan proceeds, expected to benefit between
600 and 800 firms.
Evaluation of Objectives
The experience of the project suggests that the failures it was addressing in capital, information, technology and
institutional markets were real, and the modalities dlevised for remedying them well conceived. Policy changes that
directly affected the project such as import liberalization and the determination of the government to make scientitic
institutions financially more self-supporting, and, more generally, the increasingly positive attitude to the private
sector and foreign investors, all reinforced the benefits of the project, suggesting that its initial concept was sound
(refer para #4 of main text and para # 1.1 of borrower input for policy environment).
Implementation Experience
Overall implementation experience was highly satisfactory. All covenants were fully complied with. Loan
disbursements were slow in the initial periods, largely due to the fact that there was a long learning period for the
implementing agencies given that R&D finance, restructuring of R&D institutes and venture capital were all new
concepts to be grappled with. Restructuring of the project in light of early closure of the TDF component also
contributed to delays. Bank agreement with the Borrower to reallocate some of the funds from unusable components
into others improved the implementation process and contributed to the quality of the project. Cooperation between
the Bank and the project institutions was highly satisfactory and credit for this goes to both sides. Continuity and;olr
commitment on the part of the Gol as well as the Bank played a key role in the ability and readiness to solve
problems.
ICICI and IDBI functioned as high quality intermediaries for this project. Strict performance monitoring and
evaluation criteria and a high degree of institutiona'l involvement in each of the sub-projects was present throughout
(refer Section E of main text on borrower performance). Finally, the availability of Japanese implementation grants
were very useful in funding key studies, internship programs, and seminars that increased the "ownership" and
understanding of the borrowing institutions. Availability of IDA resources allowed sub-loans to institutions to be
restructured as interest-free loans for longer periods. This made the loan affordable while inculcating the discipline
of repayment for activities that they would not have typically borrowed for (refer Section C, para # 11 of main text
for detailed discussion of both issues and para #1.5 of borrower input).



ii
Results
A caretfil selection of the participating institutions, adequate seminars, training and study tours, the right economic
incentives and policy environment, and strong Borrower as well as Bank commitment resulted in a highl)
satisfactory results.
Technical Development Fund (TDF) component (Section B, para # 7 of main text): US $100 million of the loan was
to support increased and rapid import of various forms of technology required for upgrading. Around 400 firmls
used this facility as a one-stop-shop for importing technologies. A wide range of technologies in diverse sectors
were imported by firms of all sizes; however medium and large firms predominated. The project came in at a tiime
when foreign exchange limitations were severe and rules for imports of technology were highly bureaucratic. By
supporting the TDF, the project was able to bolster the speed of reform towards greater liberalization.
Indeed, against the backdrop of the TDF, the Government of India liberalized import policies considerably,
beginninig July 1991, rendering this component redundant. While $53.5 million was eventually used for this
component, $11.5 million was reallocated to the Pilot Software Fund and S 15 million to traditional VC, $20 million
was canceled.
Veentlre Capital (VC) component (Section B, para # 8 of main text): Numerically, the project achieved more thlan
set out in its initial objectives. The project supported six venture capital companies (VCCs) which managed ninle
funds. They invested in over 300 companies and the returns have been around 18-20% on average. Most of the
institutionis set up adopted the innovative, hands-on, risk-taking approach that venture capital requires, and
sponsored some exciting and valuable technology based projects.
In fact, many of the ventures would not have taken off in the absence of VCCs because of the lack of other souIces
of technology finance. Those projects that may have been undertaken would have either taken much longer, or th2lir
scope significantly curtailed. In that sense, the project in essence launched the VC industry in India, Its indirect
contribution may have been equally important, in influencing the 'culture' of risk finance and enabling foreign
venture capitalists to be attracted to India.
TI component (Section B, para # 9 of main text): The project supported 33 loans in 30 Tls instead of the target of
12-15 institutions. Of these, 7 loans supported new TIs, mostly private contract or cooperative research labs or
technology service institutions. The project provided loans rather than grants, forcing the TIs to focus on financial
management and rates of return. Also, the loans were made conditional on the launching of internal institutional
changes.
A number of research institutes were able to modernize and upgrade their physical facilities in several importanit
areas. This enabled them to enter new areas of research and re-orient themselves to serve industry. Most of these
institutions have raised the proportion of the budget that comes from their own earnings significantly. The
institutional re-orientation towards market friendly postures has been remarkable (see para #1.13, Boxes I and 2 of
borower input for examples).
Sponsored R&D (SPREAD) promotion fund (Section B, para # 10 of main text): A total of 98 projects in 96
companies borrowed under the SPREAD program. Nearly two-thirds of these have never undertaken any R&D
activity before, and around 80 of them had no previous joint activities with a TI. Furthermore, almost 90 percent of
the companies borrowing under SPREAD were of small or medium- scale. Many of the technologies developed are
complex and demanding and a sample of the projects suggests that most involve substantial technological effort and
introduced completely new products or processes to India. They mostly involve replacing expensive or closely held
new foreign technologies with viable, adapted and much cheaper local counterparts. Also, exports often resulted
from SPREAD projects.



iii
The immediate benefit of  SPREAD for borrowing firms came from  expediting the identification of Tls or
researchers for the proposed project; the clarification and credibility which ICICI's appraisal brought to the firms'
proposal; and the intermediary role of solving problems between Tls and firms that ICICI performed. The larger-
benefits of SPREAD include new or improved products or processes which would have gotten to market much more
slowly or not at all or through a more costly route. Other benefits are the positive impact on new projects being
developed in collaboration between firms and Tls; and the confidence of the various parties (firms and Tls) in their
abilities to produce practical results and work together. Many of the firms have stated that they will go back to lils
or universities for research collaboration in the future.
Project Sustainability
The project made a positive contribution to industrial technology development in India. It helped shape the direction
of reform in technology institutions, launched the venture capital industry, and started a culture of collaborative
research between firms and technology institutions. Perhaps more importantly, it has launched a process that has
enormous externalities that will feed into longer term developments. However, concerns regarding the momentlm
of reform in the absence of the committed intermediaries and Bank funds are expressed in Section G of the main
text of this document as well as in the borrower input in paras # 1.28/1.29 and # 3.9.
Key Lessons Learned
The project offers some important overall lessons for the design of ITD projects in other developing countries (refer
Section 1. paras # 25, 26 and 27 of main text):
a)  Success in restructruing public sector institutions resulted from identification of market failures and in-built
tight monitoring, training, and incentives for participants to 'own' the projects. Such monitoring is demanding
for the Bank and internediary institutions (see section E, paras # 14 and 15 of main text for discussion of
borrower commitment and performance). Strong leadership in the beneficiary institutions played a key role in
achieving success.
b) The broader policy context within which ITD is placed is crucial to its success. The Indian project was located
within a liberalization episode, when growing internal and international competition forced firms to improve
their technologies and innovate. While withou.t this backdrop much of the impact may have been lost, the
project did not wait for the entire reform process to be either initiated or completed, but accepted the limited
reform that had already taken place and played the role of a catalyst in accelerating the momentum of the
reform effort further.
c)  The role of an agency such as the World Bank iis important in accelerating and augmenting such reform effor-ts
because the Bank has credibility and the experience necessary to play the role of an honest broker between the
science & technology institutions, industry, and the Government.
d)  A strong positive response also depends on the existing base of industrial and technological capabilities. India's
large supply base responded to technological policy stimuli and was able to enter advanced technologies even at
fairly small scales.
e)  A strong and committed intermediary is crucial to the success of a complex project. In the Indian experience
the intermediary possessed and further cultivated the skills and commitment necessary to create a market lor
technology finance.
f)  There is a fairly long 'learning' period for all participants in such projects, including for the intermediary
agency. Where a culture of technology upgrading and collaborations has to be created among firms and R& D
institutions, it may be. typical to see slow starts (reflected in slow disbursements) in the beginning, but the right
incentives, training, and advice can help build momentum.
Future Operations
The response to SPREAD shows that interventions of this nature are more useful in stimulating industry to spend
more on R&D than tax incentives. Much of Indian industry is unable to afford the cost of R&D and needs soft
funding support for industrial technology development. Continuation of this program in its present or modified form



iv
will allow efficient usage of the existing R&D infrastructure through joint projects with industry. The expertise built
up in the Technology Group of ICICI could be built upon and augmented, perhaps through its transformation into a
full-fledged organization on its own, like the Korea Technology Bank.
Small-scale industry does not and cannot seek alliances with formal R&D institutions, however industry-inclined
the latter might become. The needs of small industry may also be more routine -- in the area of quality promotion
and standards adherence, which need to be supported by different organizations that are able to target clusters ot
firms which face similar constraints. New and small technology-based companies need special attention once the
support for the domestic VCFs through the bank project comes to an end.
The process of bringing an industry-oriented approach to R&D institutions in India has begun well, but much
remains to be done. Training of scientists in CSIR labs needs to be continued over a longer period of time so that the
ability of scientists to respond to the new incentives is enhanced. Many more institutes need to be challenged wvith
reform for the culture gap between science and industry to be bridged. Industry needs to be encouraged to use
scientific institutions to solve industrial problems and this requires a continuation of the education, awareness-
raising and training efforts. Similar efforts need to be conducted in universities and engineering colleges so that
educational programs can be more industry focused.
Finally, if local inventive efforts are to be encouraged and nurtured, and the absorptive capacity of technology
transfer from abroad to be strengthened, the role of intellectual and property rights (IPRs) will need to be faced
squarely While India is a member of the WTO, and legislation that makes India a signatory to adopting stronger
intellectual property right regime is due in Parliament, a lot will need to be done to bring a greater understanding of
the role of IPRs to both the scientific community and industry. Compliance with internationally accepted IPR norms
will mandate non-trivial investments in the enforcement infrastructure on the one hand, and a critical role lor
education, training, and dissemination of information on the other, which in turn would stimulate technology
gener-ation and diffusion.
Foor borrower's suggestions on future operations refer "Unfinished Agenda" paras # 1.28 through # 1 .32 of borrower
input section.



INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3119-IN, Credit 2064-IN, Japan Grant 2700-IN)
Part 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Project Name    Industrial Technology Development Project
Loan no.    3 119-IN (US $145 million)
IDA credit no.    2064-IN (US $55 million equivalent)
Japanese Grant no.    JPN-2700 (US $2.5 million equivalent)
Country    India
Sector     Financial Sector
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives
I.     The overall objective of the project was to facilitate the acquisition and development of technology by
industrial firms in India. It aimed to promote within industry a balanced recourse between existing domestic
technological capability and increased and easier import of foreign technology; and to reduce the finanicial
constraint to new technology ventures and the foreign exchange constraint to technology import. The project lhad
three components:
a) Helping small, innovative firms obtain financing by supporting the development of venture capital (VC) in India.
This $ 45 million loan component originally aimed to support four venture capital entities (later expanded to six),
finance perhaps 150 enterprises, lead to the development and commercialization of many new products ancl
processes and earn returns on investments of 15-18%.
b) Upgrading research and standards institutions to provide technology services to industry and promoting
collaboration between industry and research institutions. This technology services component was expected to
upgrade the facilities and build the industrial support programs of 12 - 15 technology institutions (TIs) for S 40
million: and provide $ 15 million to about 60 firms to finance R&D projects contracted with TIs.
c) Financing the import of technology and technical know-how by industry by supporting the expansion and easier
access by companies to the fast-track Technology Development Fund (TDF), with $ 100 million loan, expected to
benefit between 600 and 800 firms. This 'policy finance' was agreed to after the Government removed some major
limitations from the TDF, in 1988-89.



2
Policy Context (historical, and preceding the project)
2.      The Indian Government was one of the first in the developing world to implement a comprehensive plan
for industrial technology development (ITD), aiming to promote institutions and provide incentives for formal
research activity. Beginning in the early 1940s, but principally since independence, many institutions were built
largely within the public sector to support the development and diffusion of technology. Their activities
encompassed virtually all those generally found in the industrialized countries and advanced newly industrializing
countries (NICs). They included over one hundred research and development (R&D) institutes, as well as
institutions responsible for standards and product certification; patents and other forms of intellectual property:
technology diffusion to small-scale industry; technical consulting at the state level; and regulating the inflow of
foreign technology.
3.      Flowever, this strategy was not successful in catalyzing ITD in Indian industry. Technological effort
remained predominantly in the public sector, and the R&D institutes remained largely divorced from direct
involvement in productive activity. Technology imports were also restricted. The controls, first launched in the 60s
in the wake of the tight foreign exchange controls, became more stringent during the 70s. Over this period, lndia
industrialized with the lowest relative dependence on foreign technology of all the leading developing countries.
4.      Major policy changes were first initiated in the late 80s and continued during the early 90s. These inchlded
gradual but significant trade liberalization; the lifting of various internal regulations on industrial growth; financial
sector reforms; and a more positive attitude to foreign direct and portfolio investment. A major shift in science
policy required that public R&D institutes and laboratories turn more commercially-driven and self-supporting.
Some of these changes deserve elaboration.
*  Liberalization of the domestic regulatory system removed the licensing requirements for investments up to a
certaiin limit, reduced the number of products reserved for production by small scale industries, eased the
monopoly regulations by increasing the threshold level, and expanded the product areas in whicih firimls
classified as monopolies could invest.
- Gradual trade liberalization in the late eighties paved the way for liberal technology imports which came into
full effect in the early nineties, leading to a marked jump in the number of foreign collaborations. New
guidellines which enabled the import of technologies removed many of the previous restrictive conditions.
providing a boost to technological competition among firms. The processing of applications was streamlined.
and restrictions on capital goods imports relaxed.
*  On the recommendation of the Abid Hussain Committee it was stipulated that one-third of the revenues of the
CSIR network of laboratories should be generated from non-budget sources by 1992-93 and 40% by 2000: that
industry should be represented on the governing board of the CSIR; that links should be built with design
engineering firms; that the institutes do their own marketing; and that individual researchers be encouraged to
conlsult for industry. The management of the institutes was strengthened, and some experienced industrial
managers were attracted. These reforms started to yield some benefits quickly, and within a year or two a
change of orientation was evident in some CSIR laboratories. The better managed ones showed a significant
increase in their earnings based on the re-orientation of their activities to the needs of industry.
5.      As a result of these policies (and accompanying expansionary macroeconomic policies), industrial growth
accelerated from 6 percent in the early eighties to 9 percent per year towards the end of the decade. While this rapid
growth was partly in response to the expansion of public spending which created demand for industrial products. the
improved lpolicy environment contributed substantially by enabling firms to adjust the volume and composition of
output to meet this increased demand. The technology project, while aware of the many remaining deficiencies, was
based on this improved incentive structure which had already demonstrated positive signs of its effectiveness.



3
Evaluation of Objectives
6.      Given this liberalized policy environment, was the technology development project still useful for Incdian
industry? The evidence suggests that it turned out to be more rather than less successful than originally expected:
the failures it was addressing in capital, information, technology and institutional markets were real, and the
modalities devised for remedying them well conceived. Policy changes that directly affected the project such as
import liberalization and the determination of the government to make scientific institutions financially more self-
supporting, and, more generally, the increasingly positive attitude to the private sector and foreign investors, all
reinforced the benefits of the project, suggesting that its initial concept was sound. The project also helped in some
measure to ease various growing pains, when the effects of liberalization began to come to the fore.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.      Technical Development Fund component:1  US $100 million of the loan was to support increased and
rapid import of various forms of technology, thus doubling the Fund's capacity. Support was provided solel lfor
imports required for technology upgrading and whichi were approved under a 'fast-track' system.
*  Around 400 firms used this facility as a one-stop-shop for importing technologies.
*   Mainly three types of technology transfer mechanisms were supported: licenses, technical drawings, and capital
goods imports. A wide range of technologies in diverse sectors were imported by firms of all sizes: however.
medium and large firms predominated.
Timing was an important asset in the achievements of this component. The project came in at a time when
foreign exchange limitations were severe and rules for imports of technology were highly bureaucratic. By
supporting the TDF, the project was able to bolster the speed of reform towards greater liberalization.
* Indeed, against the backdrop of this improved. TDF facility , the Government of India liberalized import
policies considerably, beginning July 1991, which meant that a large part of the original US $100 million was
no longer required under the technology import component. US $53.5 million was eventually used for this
component, US $ 26.5 million reallocated to the VC component (US $11.5 million to traditional VC and US
$15 million to a special VC fund called the Pilot Software Financing Facility) and US $20 million canceled in
two installments, once in 1994 and then in 1997.
8.      VC component: US $45 million of the loan (an additional $ 26.5 million was allocated later) was to be
relent by the government to four financial institutions to finance part of their equity investments in the venturIe
capital funds established by them or their subsidiaries (refer para # 2.1 of borrower input section for details). Each
VCF would consist of investments made by the respective financial institutions as well as when feasible, fuilds
raised from public, institutional, and foreign investors. One third of each VCF investments came from Bank ftinds.2
LNumerically, the project achieved more than set out in its initial objectives. The project supported six ventuLre
capital companies involving six VC management companies and nine funds: Technology Development and
Information Company of India, Ltd. (TDICI), Gujarat Venture Finance Ltd. (GVFL), Andhra Pradesh Venture
Capital Ltd. ( APVCL), Canara Bank Venture Capital Fund and (CANVCL) were the original four. Two
additional funds, IL&FS Venture Capital Funcl (IVC) and Risk Capital and Technology Finance Corp. Ltd.
(RCTC) were added in 1993. They have invested in over 300 companies and the returns have been around 18-
Limited information could be collected on this component at the time of preparing this ICR on account of the fact
that this component had been closed for several years.
2 While the IFC joined the Bank mission and contributed to one existing fund (TDICI), it could not participate more
fully because no foreign investors were interested.



4
20% on average, which is considerably better than what is earned in VC activities during its infancy.3 Total
investments have been about $60.4 million instead of $ 45 million that was planned, and in local currency the
difference between planned and actual would be higher owing to the devaluation of 1991.
The project in essence launched the VC industry in India by building upon the existence of one VC entity and
encouraging the framing of appropriate policies and incentives. Currently, around Rs. 30 billion is being
managed by this industry as opposed to Rs. 2 billion in 1990. Its contribution, in terms of influencing the
'culture' of risk finance and enabling foreign venture capitalists to be attracted to India was equally if not more
important than the narrow numerical contribution. Prior to this project the culture of VC did not exist in India4.
but was developed through technical and management training for VC managers and seminars to riaise
awareness among .industry. Through the various internships, study tours, and extensive training programs, a
pool of skilled talent has been created for the VC industry. Programs are also in place now that will offer
training for venture capitalists in the future (refer para # 2.4 of borrower input section for review of overseas
training program).
*   Many of the ventures would not have taken off in the absence of VCCs, as other sources of technology finance
were simply not available. Those projects that may have been undertaken would have taken much longer, or
their scope significantly curtailed.
*   Protected domestic markets are no longer the driving force in technology-based investments - even when the
main market is domestic, which is natural for a large country like India, the technologies used are expected to
be competitive with imports and with multinational entrants. The newly liberalized environment has allowed
many enterprising technologists to develop competitive products that have good potential in export markets.
The firms' awareness of current technological trends, the high level of sophistication of many projects, and the
ability to 'reverse engineer' complex technologies while adapting them to very different raw materials or
product specifications, are also impressive.
*   The VC institutions have adopted the innovative, hands-on, risk-taking approach that venture capital requires.
and have sponsored some exciting and valuable technology based projects. Examples of these projects are
provided in Section I of the ICR and the attached borrower's input. However, over time these funds have
tended to adopt a more risk-averse approach, moving away from  financing technology based start-up
companies to relatively safe investments in established companies.
*   The Software Fund was a little slow to get off the ground but the fund claims a solid portfolio of excellent
companies that would not have been able to attract either VC or traditional banking finance.5 In the limited
period of around nine months of investment activity, nine investments aggregating US $7.54 million were
made. Given the recent formation of this fund, an in-depth evaluation of the firms assisted by it has not yet been
undertaken, but at least one of its investee companies has been an outstanding success, and one other has strong
potential. While the Fund was the first of its kind, the fact that similar software funds are now being planned'
after the close of the Bank project is one indication of the usefulness of the facility created.
While in the earlier years the returns were much higher, in recent years the declining stock exchange has
maintained very low multiples and the market for initial public offerings has been almost moribund.
4 While one VC company already existed (TDICI), it was considerably reshaped and influenced by the project to
reflect a more technology based orientation.
5 Because software companies lack collateral and have capabilities not understood in the banking community, they
require other assistance. On the other hand, the Software Fund was not a pure VC fund either, since there was not a
very large up-side scenario. It was aimed at potentially good companies that were unlikely to generate 40-50% rate
of return but needed a range of support apart from equity and advice.
6 A large new foreign fund is being formed with special funds earmarked for the Software industry.



5
Technology support services:
TI component
9.      Of the US$55 million IDA credit (amounted to $ 61.2 million owing to SDR appreciation), $US 40 million
was to finance i) technology service institutions through equipment for pilot plants, laboratory and testing
facilitates; ii) common R&D facilities with industry; iii) technology collaboration fees; iv) training and exchange
programs with industry; v) upgrading of management systems, safety and marketing capabilities; vi) other R&D
expenditures such as special samples, materials and consultant fees. The project was essentially targeted to improve
the functioning of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) and its constituent laboratories7 (refer para
# 1.2 of borrower input section for issues identified in the functioning of technology institutions). Of the $40
million, $15 million was earmarked for restructuring CSIR, and the remaining $25 million for other institutions.
*  The project has supported 33 loans in 30 Tls instead of the target of 12-15 institutions. These included nine
CSIR laboratories, nine labs under other govemmmnt departments, eight research foundations, five laboratories
set up by industry associations and two national technology training institutions.
*  This component built upon the Abid Hussain Committee proposed reforms and demonstrated via examples, the
ability of scientists and technology institutions to respond to changed incentives. By aiding the first few steps of
this new regime this component gave the reform process the momentum and commitment it needed to gain
wider acceptance.
•  The project provided loans rather than grants (which was a first for most institutions), helping to focus TIs on
financial management and rates of return. Also, lhe loans were made conditional on the launching of internal
institutional changes. ICICI, which administered the project, applied strict project evaluation criteria and
helped the TIs to reorganize and provided monitoring. However, since the emphasis was on encouragiig Tls to
make major investments in future programs and build technological capability, the loan was kept interest fiee
(see para #1.5 of borrower input). Funding was open to all autonomous technology institutions, both existing
and new. This made it possible to support technolcigy institutions of diverse ownership.
* Most of these institutions were able to achieve a stronger industry orientation, create state-of-the art facilities.
and in some cases tie-ups with international companies (see Annex I of borrower input). On average, the
proportion of external revenues in the Tis' total revenue has gone up from around 15% to 40% during the
project lifetime.
* The contractual R&D and consultancy income of the CSIR laboratories taken together has increased from Rs.
800 million in 1992-93 to 1670 million in 1995-96. Annual industrial production based on CSIR know-how
increased from Rs. 19,000 million to Rs. 30,000 million in the same period. For example, one of the CSIR labs.
National Chemical Laboratories (NCL) now earns more than half its total budget from contractual research,
and the value of its research contracts with foreign companies exceeds that with Indian companies. Externlal
earnings for NCL have increased from Rs. 28 million in 1990 to Rs. 113 million in 1997. Such foreign
collaborations have provided valuable feedback into its own information and skills (see Box I of borrower
input).
* The Director-General of CSIR has stated that the project has been primarily responsible for changing the
institutional orientation and he considered this mnore important than the credit provided. This has happened
over a period of time, through interaction with the World Bank, and the Japanese grant-facilitated availability
of foreign experts and training programs, both in India and abroad.
*   Another institute, the Sriram Institute of Industrial Research, known for its reputation in testing and other
services in materials sciences, environment, and toxicology, has been able to modernize and upgrade its
7 CSIR's network comprises 42 laboratories and a scientific and technical manpower of 15000, making it one of tlle
largest research institutions in India.



6
physical facilities in several important areas. This has led to a compounded annual growth rate of 28% in its
revenues from services and allowed it to enter new areas of research (see Box 2 of borrower input).
* Two institutions that did not perform so well were the B.V. Patel Center for Pharmaceutical Research and the
Bureau of Indian Standards. This was mainly due to over-optimistic plans to sell services to industry, change in
patterns of demand among firms, and above all a lack of a continued, committed and visionary leadership.
Weak leadership compromised the autonomy, financial management and marketing capabilities of the
institutions concerned (see Box 2 and paras #1.15 and 1.16 of borrower input).
Sponsored R&D promotion fnd (SPREAD)
10.    US$15 million of the original IDA credit was to be used to support R&D projects carried out jointly by
firms and TIs or contracted directly to Tls by firms. Project resources were passed onto participating firms as
conditional loans with an initial nominal interest or royalties if successfu I, and written off if adequately proven to be
unsuccessful.
*  A toital of 98 projects and 96 companies borrowed under SPREAD.
*  Nearly two-thirds have never before undertaken any R&D activity, and around 80 of them have no previoUs
joint activities with a TI. Furthermore, almost 90 percent of the companies borrowing under SPREAD were ol
small or medium-scale.
*  The immediate impact of SPREAD includes the identification of Tls or researchers; reduced gestation lag-
without SPREAD, the beneficiary project could have taken much longer; the clarification of project and
approach which ICICI's appraisal may have brought out; the help which ICICI brought to solve problems
between the TI and the firm. The larger benefits of SPREAD include new or improved products or processes
which would have gotten to market much more slowly or not at all or through a more costly route, perhaps withi
higher value added going overseas. Other benefits are the positive impact on new projects being developed in
collaboration between firms and Tls; and the confidence of the various parties (firms and TIs) in their abilities
to produce practical results and work together. Many of the firms have stated that they will go back to Tls or
universities for research collaboration in the future (also see Annex 3 of borrower input).
Many of the technologies involved are complex and demanding. A sample of the projects suggests that imost
involve substantial technological effort and introduce completely new products or processes to India. They
mostly involve replacing expensive or closely held new foreign technologies with viable, adapted and much
cheaper local counterparts. Exports have resulted often from SPREAD projects (refer para # 1.20 and # 1.21 olI
borrower input section for operational experience).
*  The record of commercial and technological success is excellent. In the 98 projects on which information is
available, 40% have developed technologtes that have been commercialized; 4% have developed technologies
successfully but commercialization has been delayed, 2%  in which the technologies developed are nol
commercially feasible, 8% which are technological failures, and the remaining 46% are under implementatioll.
* The projects are also successful in financial terms: 75 % are meeting their obligations regularly and 17°/o
irregularly, while 8% are in default.
*   The failure rate under SPREAD is lower than expected -- 15% rather than 20%. This suggests that. in
technological terms, the technology group (TG) did a good job of selecting proposals and may have even been
able to afford somewhat greater risks.
*  Perhaps several more firms could have been helped were it not for the long learning period that all the
participants had to put themselves through. More aggressive marketing could have also fueled the demand for
SPREAD projects sooner. While the stringent evaluation and counterpart funding criteria was instrumental in



7
determining the success of this project, it is possible that for small firms this requirement may have been too
stringent. Of course, flexibility in the application of the 50 percent counterpart funding could have also
translated into greater failures for the SPREAD component.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
II.    The OED report' on industrial technology projects praised this project for being built partly around the
factor market failures that normally affect ITD, and partly around the distortions created by Government policies on
S&T institutions and technology imports. The components were also noted to be well conceived and designed to
meet a specific and pressing need, thus making this project the most promising project of the ones reviewed at the
time of writing of the OED report. The outcomes confirms the initial prognosis, implying a very sound and high
quality implementation of the project. In addition to the right policy environment, trade liberalization, the
imposition of hard budget constraints, and CSIR reform, a number of factors have contributed to the successful
implementation of the project.
a)     The Japanese "implementation" grants were very useful during the project. Activities such as internship for
VC managers, OTC exchange and training programs, collaboration with NASDAQ, training in laboratory safety for
CSIR, enhancing the marketing capabilities and management system of the CSIR laboratories, development of VC
training materials, etc., would not have been funded adequately, were these funds to have come out of the loan. The
Grant of over $2.5 million amounted to more than one percent of the corresponding Loan and Credit amounts. Key
studies and technical assistance programs were able to become important sub-components of this project due to
these funds. In addition to the provision of these seriices to the institutions, there were some externalities created
from the use of these implementation grants. For exarnple, based on the success of the VC internship training in the
US/UK, the India Venture Capital Association (VCA) and the UTI Institute of Capital Markets have developed
basic materials for training within India for VC executives, would-be venture capitalists and relevant governmenlt
officials. Innovative technology management education programs were also initiated during the project, which in
turn stimulated the development of other programs in India towards technology management (for borrower
comments see part 3, paras #3.1 through #3.9 of borrower input section).
b)     Availability of IDA resources for the TI component helped. As with technical assistance, it is likely that the
Gol would not have been willing to borrow expensive Bank resources for restructuring institutions that were not
commercially viable. The availability of IDA allowed sub-loans to Tls to be structured as interest free loans for
longer periods. This had the virtue of making the loan affordable whilst inculcating the discipline of repayment of
loans for Tls which had never encountered such arrangements before (see paras #1.25 through #1.27 on experience
of borrower with Bank and GoI on IDA funds).
c)     A great deal of flexibility was built into the project from the beginning. This gave a sufficient amount of
leeway to ensure that the rules of the game could be adapted easily, so long as they fitted within the objectives and
overarching structure of the project. What was defined were the procedures and basic institutions. Even those could
change subject to agreement by the Bank.
d)     The project closing was extended by two years, through two one year extensions. This owed to two main
factors. First, the restructuring of the project due to the truncation of the TDF component and reallocation of the
unused funds to other components, needed additional implementation time. Second, by its very nature the project
involved a change in mind set on the part of technology institutions and firms, which was slow to come about. A
great deal of 'learning' had to take place on all sides, and in the initial years of the project, disbursements were very
slow. Once the culture and momentum had been built up, demand from industry and Tls grew rapidly, with
particularily intense implementation and disbursemenis in the last two (extended) years of the project.
s Study of Bank Lending for Technology development: (1993), Operations Evaluation Division, World Bank.



8
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
12.    The project design accurately reflected the market deficiencies prevailing at the time in India and worked
towards the improvement of the policy environment. In fact, once the policy environment was liberalized, the
impact of the project multiplied, implying that the Bank's role during identification and appraisal was well
formulated.
13.    Bank supervision for this project was very intense. Supervision quality was further enhanced by the fact
that the project maintained rare continuity in task-managership, from design to almost the closing date. This allowed
a close relationship between the Bank and borrower to be formed, which, by fostering joint learning, allowed
feedback from the borrowers to be incorporated. Further, when task managers changed, a considerable amount of
time (almost a year) was allowed for overlap in the process of handing over responsibilities, which created
ownership for the project on the part of the new task manager, and reduced the transition pains to the borrower.
During the last year of the project, when implementation was very intense, field-based task management was critical
in having issues resolved with promptness and flexibility.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
14.    ICICI played the role of a very high quality intermediary for this project. For the TI component, it applied
a very strict project evaluation criteria and carefully monitored the loans.  ICICI stayed involved with the
institutions in their strategy and role identification through the reform process (refer para # 1.9, 1.10, and 1.1 I ol'
borrower input section for organizational procedures). For the SPREAD component, ICICI realized that they did not
have the necessary skills to carry out the functions and therefore strengthened the Technology Group (TG) that hiad
been created under a previous USAID project (refer para # 1.20 and 1.21 of borrower input section for pro-gram
implementation and operational experience). They recruited engineers and researchers with hands-on experience in
R&D, design, and commercialization of prototypes, and also appointed a steering committee of eminent scientists,
researchers, industrialists and academics to approve proposals. The involvement of the TG in each project's
appraisal, implementation and commercialization remained intense. Similarly, IDBI acted as the intermediary for
the VC component for five of the six VCFs, and in fact contributed its own funds to two of the assisted VCFs. It
also helped in settling the Trust and preparing the Trust Deed for a number of funds.
15.    Continuity and/or commitment on the part of the borrowers was also very critical to the success of this
project. The quality of personnel, readiness to solve problems, and commitment to project goals remained
exemplary. Similarly, visionary leadership in ICICI, the Technology Group within ICICI, and key CSIR institutions
was critical to the successful implementation of the reforms that were undertaken. Excellent leadership was the key
to allowing difficult steps to be taken at the right time along with ensuring that the culture of reform spread within
the organization.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
16.    A careful selection of the participating institutions, adequate seminars, training and study tours, the right
economic incentives and policy environment, and strong Borrower as well as Bank commitment resulted in a highly
satisfactory assessment of project outcomes.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.    The project made a positive and significant contribution to industrial technology development in India. It
helped shape the direction of reform in technology institutions, launched the venture capital industry, and started a
culture of collaborative research between firms and technology institutions. Perhaps more importantly, it launched a
process that has enormous externalities and that will feed into longer term developments. One of the positive
externalities of the project was the impact on human resources. Within lCICI, while it was visionary leadership that



9
initiated the process, close interaction with the Bank, training, and study tours, allowed more individuals to take on
a leadership role. Similarly at CSIR, and within the VC community, the training as well as the close and regular
dialogue with the Bank allowed the new wave of thinking to start filtering through across the institutions.
18.    In the area of risk financing it is clear that there is a burgeoning need for financing technology-based start-
ups in India. The process launched by the project has been successful, and has had beneficial spillovers to the rest of
the VC industry. The VCCs often provided more than capital: they took an intense and continuing interest in
promoting ideas, guiding and inducing entrepreneurs to adopt good business practices, sharing their problems,
putting them in contact with useful firms or institutions and helping them market the product. This sort of
relationship is typical of good VCCs elsewhere and bodes well for the sustainability of this industry. Also, the
project has helped to create some basic training material for VC, which will help in the provision of trained
manpower.
19.    However, this is a new industry in India and has a long way to go before it reaches maturity. An
assumption that must be made for future growth of this industry is that the stock market allows for the profitable
floating of shares or off-loading of ventures. Until such time, exit will remain difficult and funds will move away
from classical VC (which is supposed to finance risky, technology-based ventures) to equity type of funding ftor
relatively safe investments in established companies. The project has tried to help the off-loading of ventures by
assisting the OTCEI but more remains to be done. Also, the VC industry needs to be encouraged by appropriate tax
incentives as is done in most other countries, wit]h some attention to the needs of long-term and risky ventures. The
entry of foreign VCFs with more international knowledge and greater industry specialization will provide the skills
that local funds cannot muster. Collaborations between local and foreign funds may be a good way to transfer the
skills and continue the momentum built up thus far.
20.     Of the 33 VCFs in India currently, 23 are large off-shore equity funds. These funds invest between US $5-
8 million per deal and invest in existing companies which have a potential for market capitalization of about Rs.
1000 million ($25 million) after 4-5 years. Thus the small to medium size companies or the new technology based
enterprises are not funded by these large funds. The domestic funds which finance the small to medium-size
technology based projects have largely been furLded by the WB through this project. With the completion of this
project, the equity fund sources for small to medium size technology oriented companies will need to be
supplemented.
21.    In terms of restructuring research institutions the project has shown that public Tls can be reformed and
play a valuable role in technology development without weakening their scientific effort, if the 'culture' of the
institutions is changed. That seems to have happened in India and appears set to continue because of the clear
signals and a 'hard' budget constraint from the Government; strong and committed leadership within the institutions
and in the parent organization; and greater autonomy afforded to the laboratories and the network as a whole to
implement changes and hire and fire staff. While these conditions are not easy to create and the process of cultural
change among scientists is often slower than expected, once the process starts there is a 'snowballing' effect, nlow
evident in India. Spillovers to other institutions that have not directly benefited from the Bank project have also
resultedl from  exchange of staff and management that have brought the industry-oriented culture with them.
Institutions have realized that becoming more demand driven is the only way to maintain their facilities in the face
of government budget cuts. The Tls that were assisted in this project serve as excellent role models for the others.
22.     Of course, much remains to be done, such as in the case of CSIR. Budgeting and MIS systems still need to
be overhauled. More of the 42 CSIR institutes, apart from the 8 laboratories and the CSIR headquarters that were
assisted, need to start serious reform. Furthermore, training for CSIR staff needs to continue, so that the momentum
generated by the project continues and percolates to an ever-larger group of staff. While the successes from this
project have shown the way to reform, special attention will have to be paid to the intrinsic differences that exist in
the nature of scientific research across different fields, hence making it imperative that incentives be designed
appropriately for each institute or department. Wthile the momentum for reform has been generated, the lack of an
intermediary like ICICI to bring industry and Tls together after project completion may compromise further reform
efforts. More formal education in technology management is also needed to be able to build local capabilities in
this area and sustain the technology development efforts of both industry and scientific institutions. Internationally



10
accredited programs need to be designed and incorporated into the curriculum of the leading science and
engineering institutes and universities.
23.    The SPREAD program helped small enterprises that were able to provide counterpart finance to participate
in R&D financing schemes. It also provided Tls the assistance in gearing up to meet the expectations of enterprises
in terms of timeliness, delivery and practical application. A rapid learning process occurred among both enterprises
and Tls, and a heartening number of collaborations have been able to overcome the culture gap relatively quickly
under the SPREAD program. The injection of a relatively modest sum of money (most of which is repaid) by a
knowledgeable intermediary such as ICICI has led to the stimulation of a longer-term process of interaction and
there is a (surprisingly) strong latent demand in the industrial sector for technological collaboration with Tls and
universities, which can continue. Many of the firms involved say that they will go back to Tls or universities for
research collaboration in the future.
24.    It is important to build on the capability developed by ICICI's TG. Mobility of staff within ICICI means
that staff are constantly being transferred around the organization, and the skills developed by the TG thus
dissipated. It may be useful for ICICI to think of spinning off the TG as a subsidiary (to resemble the Korea
Technology Bank) which could have a joint venture with CSIR.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
25.    The response to SPREAD shows that interventions of this nature are more useful in stimulating industrv to
spend more on R&D than tax incentives. Much of Indian industry is unable to afford the cost of R&D and needs
soft funding support for industrial technology development. Continuation of this program in its present or moditied
form will allow efficient usage of the existing R&D infrastructure through joint projects with industry. The expertise
built up in the Technology Group of ICICI could be built upon and augmented, perhaps through its transformation
into a full-fledged organization on its own, like the Korea Technology Bank.
26.    Smlall-scale industry does not and cannot seek alliances with formal R&D institutions, however industry-
inclined the latter might become. The needs of small industry may also be more routine -- in the area of quality
promotion and standards adherence, which need to be supported by different organizations that are able to target
clusters of firms which face similar constraints. In terms of financing needs, new and small technology-based
companies need special attention once the support for the domestic VCFs through the bank project comes to an end.
For the sustainability of the industrial segment and for the survival of the classic venture capital industry, a follow
up operation which places an emphasis on domestic classical venture capital type of activities may be designed.
27.    The process of bringing an industry-oriented approach to R&D institutions in India has begun well. but
much remains to be done. Training of scientists in CSIR labs needs to be continued over a longer period of time so
that the ability of scientists to respond to the new incentives is enhanced. Many more institutes need to be
challenged with reform for the culture gap between science and industry to be bridged. Industry needs to be
encouraged to use scientific institutions to solve industrial problems and this requires a continuation of the
education, awareness-raising and training efforts. Similar efforts need to be conducted in universities and
engineering colleges so that educational programs can be more industry focused.
28.    Finally, if local inventive efforts are to be encouraged and nurtured, and the absorptive capacity of
technology transfer from abroad to be strengthened, the role of intellectual and property rights (IPRs) will need to
be faced squarely. While India is a member of the WTO, and legislation that makes India a signatory to adopting
stronger intellectual property right regime is due in Parliament, a lot will need to be done to bring a greater
understanding of the role of IPRs to both the scientific community and industry. Compliance with internationally
accepted IPR norms will mandate non-trivial investments in the enforcement infrastructure on the one hand, and a
critical role for education, training, and dissemination of information on the other, which in turn would stimulate
technology generation and diffusion.
29.     For borrower's suggestions on future operations refer "Unfinished Agenda" paras # 1.28 through # 1.32 of
borrower input section.



l]
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
30.    The project also offers some general lessons for the design of ITD projects in other developing countries:
•   Success can be achieved in dealing with public sector institutions. Much of the success has resulted from the
initial design of the project which, while complex and perhaps risky, correctly identified market failures and
built in tight monitoring, training, and incentives for participants to 'own' the projects. Such monitoring is
demanding for the Bank and intermediary institutions (see section E, paras # 14 and 15 for discussion of
borrower commitment and performance). St:rong leadership in the beneficiary institutions played a key role in
the adoption of reforms. Also, a tremendous amount of flexibility was built into the project to allow a more
suitable response to the changing economic environment. Without such flexibility being built in, the project
may have been locked into rigid commitments whose need had been outlived.
*  The broader policy context within which technology policy is formed (or reformed) is crucial to its success.
The Indian project has evoked such a positive and competitive technological response because it was located
within a liberalization episode, when growing internal and international competition forced firms to improve
their technologies and innovate. Without this backdrop, much of the impact would have been lost. Having said
that, it is also very important to point out that the project did not wait for the entire reform process to be either
initiated or completed, but accepted the limited reform that had already taken place and played the role of a
catalyst in accelerating the momentum of the reform effort further.
-  The role of an agency such as the World Bank is important in accelerating and augmenting such reform efforts
because the Bank has the credibility and experience necessary to play the role of an honest broker between the
science & technology institutions, industry, and Government.
*  A strong positive response also depends on the existing base of industrial and technological capabilities. The
Indian experience suggests that its long experience of import substitution, combined with its base ol'
entrepreneurial and technical skills, has led to a large receptive base and a network of suppliers and institutions.
This base is now allowing it to respond to technological policy stimuli and enter advanced technologies even at
fairly small scales. In countries where such a base does not exist, a strong positive response to changing
incentives through restructuring and matchmaking may not result.
•   A strong and committed intermediary is crucial to the success of a complex project. In the Indian experience.
the intermediary possessed and further cultivated the skills and commitment necessary to create a market for
technology finance.
*  There is a fairly long 'learning' period for all participants in such projects, including for the intermediary
agency. Where a culture of technology upgrading and collaborations has to be created among firms and R&D
institutions, it may be typical to see slow starts (reflected in slow disbursements) in the beginning, but the right
incentives, training, and advice can help build momentum.
31.    Finally, this project offers some insights into the transportability of these specific components to other
developing countries.
Restructuring Tls
Public sector TIs can be restructured to sell their services to industry without compromising on the quality of
their scientific research (see Box I for list of barriers faced by laboratories in the process of reform). For
example the NCL has maintained the best record of publications and patents while earning the highest share of
their budget from contractual research for industry. Success in reform is however greatly influenced by the
area of research - while research in Chemistry allows itself to be patented for commercial use and at the same
time be considered theoretical enough to earn publication in reputed academic journals, research in Engineerillg
may not be amenable to such a balance between the two.



12
*   Leadership is very important- if top management is convinced of the need and feasibility of such reform, it
is feasible to mount organizational changes, training programs and marketing efforts that can transform their
operations relatively quickly.
* It is important to build in strong financial incentives for public institutions to meet performance objectives.
Scientists must be rewarded for initiating joint projects and conducting contractual research for industry.
* This business culture is alien to the scientific community at large and therefore incentive changes will not be
enough for reform. Consensus building must be undertaken and special training must be provided to the stafl'
of these institutions to allow them to change their attitudes, create new skills, routines and networks.
* Due to these 'cultural' changes, the process of reform will be slow in the beginning. In fact, speed should be
abandoned in favor of caution in implantation in order to avoid resistance, backlash and low morale among
scientists and researchers.
Venture capital
* Venture capital is an effective way to provide risk finance for technology development. Much of venture capital
is not geared to technology based investments, and a special effort has to be made to create funds that can
find, assess, and work with technology start-ups (see Box 2 for examples of technology start-ups supported
by this project).
* The success of VCs therefore depends on the presence a large body of potential new entrepreneurs with
advanced technological capabilities and of experienced financiers who can be trained to undertake the
evaluation and support services that VC requires. The 'learning' process for the latter can be quite demanding
and needs considerable external support and guidance.
*   It also needs a fairly efficient capital market in which the shares of technology companies can be sold once
they are commercially established.



13
Box 1: Barriers Faced by Laboratories in the Process of Reform
Based on a questionnaire circulated to 35 CSIR labs that had undergone the process of restructuring, an attempt was made to
understand the most important barriers faced by the institutions in their efforts to transform themselves into contractual resealrch
organizations.
The top five barriers listed were the following;
I .  Lack of industry awareness: industry did not know the capabilities of the institutions or their own technology needs.
2.  Poor acceptance by industry: Industry did not feel confident of labs' capabilities or facilities. Maybe related to the first
point.
3.  Lack of incentives: R&D personnel did not feel mnotivated to transfer technology to the marketplace.
4.  Lack of experience: Scientists did not know how to interact with industry.
5.  Excessive bureaucracy: Industry got discouraged by the procedures that needed to be followed in public institutions.
It is interesting that matters of confidentiality, or the perception that labs and industry were competitors, was rated as the least
important barrier to collaboration by the institutions in this survey, while anecdotal evidence gathered from talking to firms
reveals that this is seen as a formidable obstacle to collaboration by firms.
On tlle basis of this information it would seem that the most important areas for labs that want to become contractual r esearch
organizations to pay special attention to are:
*   Allocation of resources to improve interaction: The key seems to be addressing some of the information market failtires that
prevent collaboration. This can be done by designatin,g an interface that facilitates industry/client interaction. The interface
should be responsible for launching programs to make industry aware of the R&D capabilities of labs.
*   Ch7anging the performance evaluations and reward system for scientists: Performance evaluations of scientists and
enginieer-s should include utilization/marketing of their research output. Scientist/engineers should share in the earnings from
commercialization of R&D activities.
*   Llpgradingfacilities and investment in resource development: Upgrading human resources is essential in an era of rapidly
changing technologies. Besides technical training to keep up-to-date, successful labs also trained their scientists in team-btiilding
and customer orientation.
Source: Management of publicly funded R&D in India, case study of CSIR, January 1998.
R&D promotion financing
*   In industrial sectors that have attained a degree of depth and maturity, there exists considerable latent demand
for technology finance and technological services from Tls. This demand can be stimulated by a process of
liberalization (that exposes firms to greater domestic or international competition and allows them full access to
technology imports), and can be met by measures to bridge information gaps between industry and Tls and
provide specialized technology finance. In countries or sectors that have not reached this level of depth of
maturity to warrant finance for R&D, such specialized technology finance should be used for more routine
functions such as testing, standards conformance, certification, quality upgrading etc.
It is possible to induce private firms to enter into technological collaboration with Tls, assuming they have capable
managers (see Box 3 for a profile of participarnts and reasons for seekcing collaboration), by offering relatively
modest financial incentives, if the scheme is administered by an intermediary that has good contacts with business
and understands technology. A government bureaucracy may not be able to handle this task as effectively as a
private sector intermediary that has close contacts with private firms and the capability to judge, and work
closely with, technology ventures.
* However, just as in the restructuring component, there is a process of learning, both for the TI and for the firm.
Cooperation between Tls and firms must be encouraged and sustained.
*   While many countries have tried to persuade industrial enterprises to place research with Tls by providing
financial incentives in the form of grants, the Indian project suggests that grants are not necessary, and may



14
be inferior to conditional loans which impose a smaller cost on the government and yield a pool of reinvestible
resources. The use of the conditional loan instrument has been found
Box 2: Indian Technology Start-ups Supported by Venture Capital - A Few Examples
VXL Instruments, Bangalore: This company was launched in 1987 by five engineers, four with electronics training from the
Indian Institute of Technology, to make intelligent' monitors for computers for specialised use in hospitals, railways and
industry. These have finer resolutions than normal monitors and have a great deal of in-built software to decode complex
information. The products were developed in-house, and in 1995-96 its sales reached $13 million, of which 35% came trom
exports to Japan, UK and USA. It employs 500 people, of which 70 are in R&D (R&D expenditures account for over 4%/o of
sales). Its prices are much lower than competitors in Korea and Taiwan, and its software capabilities are more advanced. It has
ISO 9002 certification. It invests heavily in training its engineering and technical staff. It is setting up a new wholly export-
oriented unit to make colour monitors for the USA.
Lumen Cables, Gujarat: This company was started in 1993 by a metallurgical engineer to make ultra-fine magnetic wires with
multiple insulating coats of polyutherane, only 16-45 microns in diameter, for use in quartz watch movements and telephone
voice coils. This is one of only eight such facilities in the world, and the market used to be dominated by a few producers. The
small plant (18 employees) exports all its output through a buyer in Hong Kong, and is around 20% cheaper than competitors.
The technology used was originally imported from Switzerland, but considerable technical effort was needed to master and a(iapt
it: in the process, the capacity of the machinery was raised by over 50%, product endurance was improved and processes vere
changed to enable coloured wires to be made. Significant expansion is planned in the near future.
Astra Microwave, Hyderabad: This firm was started in 1993 by seven technocrats who used to work in defence R&D, and makes
sophisticated telecommunications components such as ferrite, filters, sources, antenna and so on. The firm has a 75% market
share in India, and has started exporting to Japan and USA. By 1996 its exports reached $1 million, about two-thirds of its
output. Exports fetch 40% more than domestic sales, and import content is very low (15%). Of its 120 employees, 40 are
graduate engineers and 35 are technicians. It has been certified for ISO 9001.
Labroton Instruments, Ambala: The promoters were a business family making glass products, and developed the technologx loI
making laproscopes (sophisticated optical medical instruments) and research microscopes indigenously. The product was
reverse engineered' from foreign models, and went through a long and difficult development process; two US buyers provided
technical advice on improving it and bringing it to world standards. The product is now being exported to the USA at half the
price ol competitors (all in developed countries); the unit will soon become fully export-oriented. It is getting ISO 900(0
certification.
to summon a range of viable and profitable technology-based projects, but its success depends vitally on the
appraisal and monitoring capability of the institution responsible.
*   Universities offer enormous potential for technological collaboration even in developing countries.
32.     In conclusion, the project suggests that the market deficiencies that hold back technological effort and the
effective use of Tls can be overcome by some careful market-friendly interventions. In an economy like India's.
with a considerable base of technological skills and a dense industrial structure, there is a surprising amotlit of
technological dynamism that needs to be supported. The liberalization of the economy is a necessary precondition
for such support to work, but liberalization has to be accompanied by institutional, financial and informational
measures to remedy deficient markets.



15
Box 3: Profile of Participants and Reasons for Seeking Collaboration
Background of the SPREAD participant
A majority of the heads of the participant firms in the SPREAD project possessed engineering degrees (40%). Only two of these
had a formal MBA qualification. A small percentage (13%/6) were non-engineering graduates while 17% of the participants held
doctorate degrees. This suggests that the program attracted a fair amount of individuals who had a good understanding of what
R&D based projects involved. In terms of assets as well as sales most of these firms were of small or modest size. There was a
wide variation in the number of years of experience possessed by an applicant (0-36 yrs), implying that the program attracted a
fair amount of young first generation entrepreneurs as well as professionals with established business activity, although lhe
majority seems to belong to the latter category. About 60% of the beneficiaries had involvement with previous R&D and for the
rest R&D was a first time activity.
Reason and evaluation of the joint R&D experience
It should be noted that 56.7% of the participant firms had become involved with the TI from the inception-of-the-idea stage. 'I'l[e
reasons for seeking this collaboration with a TI are shcwn below, and testing and evaluation dominates all other categories. [l's
that are starting the process of reform may find this information useful in outlining their physical investment and human resource
upgrading strategies.
Reasonsfor collaboration with TI
% ofJfirms
Testing, trials, results evaluation                                       43.3
Product prototype development                                             20.(
Technical assistance, library reference                                   20.(
Detailed design                                                           3.3
Lab scale/commercial scale process development                            10
all other aspects                                                         10
Among the constraints faced by the firms, it is noteworthy that 43.3% said they faced none, and the most common complaint was
the Tls lack of business orientation or commercial approach. Comparing this with the results of Box I reveals how perceptions
vary on both sides and how much effort and training maybe required to bridge the "culture-gap" between industry and
technology institutions.
Constraints faced in working with TI
% offirms
None                                                                      43.3
Lack of business orientation/commercial approach                          40.0
Time and cost overruns                                                    23.3
Inadequacy of design/testfacilities                                       23.3
Bureaucratic processes                                                    13.3
Inefjective technology at commercial scale                                6. 7
Lack offull attention                                                     3.3
UnhelpJidl attitude of Tlpersonnel                                        3.3
Source: Evaluation of SPREAD program, School of Management, IIT, Bombay.



16
Part 11. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                   Substantial      Partial          Negligible        Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                                     X
Sector policies                               X
Financial objectives                           X
Institutional development                     X
Physical objectives                           X
Poverty reduction                                                                                  X
Gender issues                                                                                      x
Other social objectives                                                                            x
Environmental objectives                                                                           X
Public sector management                      X
Private sector development                    X
Other (specify)                                                                                    X
B. Project Sustainability  Likely                         Unlikely                     Uncertain                  j
C. Bank Performance       Highly satisfactory            Satisfactory                  Deficient
Identification           ; X                            |
Preparation assistance    X
Appraisal                 X
Superv ision              X
D. Borrower Performance   Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    Deficient
Preparation               X
Implementation            X
Covenant compliance       X
Operation (if applicable)    X
E. Assessment of          Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory        Highly
Outcome                                                                                         Unsatisfactory
X



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit Title         Purpose                     Year of Approval           Status
Preceding operations
1. Electronics Industry   Foster a competitive        1989                       Closed
Development               electronics sector by
(Ln. 3903/4/5-IN)         supporting the modemization
and expansion of the
subsector as well as
upgradation of the technical
institutions to provide the
professional skills. -
2. Technical Education    Capacity expansion and       1990,                     Active
Project I and 11          diversification of educational   1991                  Active
1: Credit no. 2130 and Ln    institutions to allow them to
no. 3195                  undertake courses in new and
I: Credit no. 2223       developing technologies.
2. Export development     Promotion of exports,        1989                      Closed
project                   including financing of
(Ln. 3058/59)             technical assistance in
technology intensive areas
with promising export
potential e.g. software
3. Vocational training    To improve the efficiency of   1989                    Closed
project                   industry by providing high
Cr. no 2008. L no. 3045   quality workers trained in
relevant skill areas.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                          Date Planned                     Date Actual/ Latest
Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                       October-Nov 1988
Preparation
Appraisal                                                                        03/24/1989
Negotiations
Letter ol'development policy (if applicable)    ____X__________
Board presentation                              _                                9/12/89
Signing                                                                          12/08/1989
Effectiveness                                   03/08/90                         05/01/ 1990
First tranche release (if applicable)        _
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                              04/30/95                         04/30/97
Loan closing                                    12/31/1995                       12/31/1997



18
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate              20      37      50     61      23       6       3        -         -
Actual                          30      6.49    22.72   11.95   25.73    23.88   12.53    21.46    28.15
Actual as % of estimate         150     17.54   45.44   19.59   111.87   398    417.67   -         -
IBRD 31190
Actual                         14.00   6.49    2099   8.95    21.90    18.04   6.04     10.88    6.63
Cumulative                    14.00   20.49   41.48   50.43   72.33    90.37   96.41    107.29   113.91
IDA 20640
Actual                        6.00    -       1.73    3.00    3.83    5.84    6.49      10.58    21.52
Cumulative                    6.00    6.00    7.73    10.73   14.56    20.40   26.89    37.47    58.99
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation Indicators in                   Estimated                           Actual
SAR/President's Report
Number of firms using fast-track technology   600-800                     400
imports9
Venture capital financing
a) nuimber of venture
capital schemes                           4                            6
supported
b) number of companies                      150                          300
supported
c) rcturn on investments                    15-18%                       15-20%
TI upgrading
a) number of technology institutions supported
12-15                       30
b) number of sponsored R&D projects undertaken
jointly wvith Tls                             60                          98
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                       Purpose as Defined             Status         Impact of Study
at Appraisal
1. Stud) on enhancing       Enhance and strengthen the skills   Completed  Staff trained in selection of clients.
marketing capabilities of   engaged in marketing and                      mechanisms of technology transfer anid
CSIR.                       management of technology                      technology arrangements. Traditionial
knowledge base.                               practices replaced by market friendly ones,
several marketing and business
development units established in CSIR.
2. Studs of NCL management  Assessment of management and    Completed     Upgraded management of NCL to achieve
systems                     marketing systems                             greater commercial market orientation and
abilitv to increase revenues 1rom iindUSLI;ial
clicnis. Project based accounting s! stemIi
designed, proicet selection and budget
allocation system improved, organiiationll
structure modified to tacilitate industry
collaboration.
Study of laboratory safety  Identification of risks, study of  Completed  Perceptible change in awareness of lab
standards                   best practice in the world,                   salety issues. increased adoption ofG(iLI
devising protocols suited to local            and IS09000.
conditions.
9 This component was canceled due to redundancy after liberalization,



19
Table 7: Project Costs
Appraisal                             Actual/
Estimatz                              Estimate
(US$M)                                (US$M)
Item                                    Local costs    Foreign     Total      Local        Foreign      Total
costs                  costs       costs
1. Technology venture financing         70             100         170         185        42.5          227.5
2. Technology support services          49             41          90          58          36           94
(i) Technology institutions          27             33         60)         24          27            51
(ii) R&D promotion                   22             8          30          34          9             43
3. Technical development Fund                          150         150        0            80           8()
TOTAL                                   119            291         410        243          158.5        401.5
Table 8: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                Actual
Source                             Local cosI:s       Foreign costs     Total               Total
IBRD                                                  145.0              145.0              113.9
IDA                                20.0               35.0               55.0               58.9*
Cofinancing institutions           1.0                1.5               2.5                 2.34
(Japanese implementation grant funds)
Domestic contribution              98.0               109.5              207.5              226.4
(GO, corporations, individuals,
industry, TIs)
TOTAL                              119.0              291.0              410                401.5
* SDR/$ exchange rate variation made original amount of US $ 55 million appreciate to US $ 61 million.
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
[India]
[Industrial Technology Development]
Type of Covenants                              Present Status
Financial                                      All covenants fully complied with
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (actuals)
Stage oi project cycle            Weeks                              US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal          227.3                             546.5
Appraisal                         34.1                              93.2
Negotiations through Board        7.1                                21.0
approval
Supervision                       135                               460
Completion                        15                                40.0
TOTAL                             418.5                              1160.7



20
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 2064-IN, 3119-IN, JAPANESE GRANT 2700-IN)
The Industrial Technology Development (ITD) Project initiated by the World Bank in 1989 was completed
in 1997. The project had three components:
*     *      Support to venture capital entities for financing technologically innovative
and growth oriented small enterprises.
*     *      Assistance for technology service institutions (TIs) to serve industrial
needs and for industry to utilize the Tis for R&D.
und  *       Support for expansion of and easier access to the Technical Development
fund.
With these three components, the project aimed to stimulate more rapid domestic technology
development and provide industry with easier access to technology from domestic as well as foreign
sources. These three components of the project were complemented by a technical assistance grant of
Japanese Yen 337.5 million provided by the Government of Japan.
ICICI was reasponsible for implementation of second component of the project. IDA credit of SDR 44.2
million (equivalent US$ 55 million at that time) was made available under this component. This component
had two sub-components namely, technology institutions (TI) programme for supporting research and
standards institutions aimed at providing technology services to industry and Sponsored Research and
Development (SPREAD) programme aimed at promoting collaboration between industry and research
institutions. Of these US $ 40 million were allocated for the TI programme and the balance US$ 15 million
were allocated for the SPREAD programme.
ICICI was also one of the beneficiaries of the Venture Capital component. ICICI had promoted a
separate company TDICI which was allocated a loan of US$ 20 million . This report has been divided in
three parts. Part 1 covers the experience of the borrower (i.e. Government of India) with the IDA
component Part 2 covers the venture capital component, while Part 3 covers the Japanese Grant
component.



21
PART I
1.1  The ITD project was formulated and implemented at a time when the Indian economy had
started opening up. Prior to this, the domestic industry was protected from competition by way of
industrial licensing and high import tariffs. [ue to the absence of competition the industry had no
threat to its survival and consequently the investment in technology development was low. With the
gradual reduction in import tariffs and removal of restrictions on investment, domestic industry was
exposed to competition from many new players both local and foreign. Thus it became necessary for
it to invest in technology not only to improve its production efficiency and quality but also to introduce
new products. The project was therefore inl:roduced at an appropriate time.
ASSESSMENT OF TI PROGRAMME
IMPACT
"This line has demonstrated that Technology Institutions can borrow loans and pay it back"
Substantial jump in eamings of Tls from private industry going upto 50% in the last 8 years
Restructuring & reforns have helped to provicde improved services to the industry
State of art facilities created to support industry in several areas such as leather processing, catalysis,
polymers, petroleum refining, infornation technology, lasers, material science and rapid prototyping.
Issues identified in functioning of Technology Institutions
1.2    The thrust of industrial policy on technological self reliance had led to setting up of a wide array
of technology institutions to support technology development and diffusion to the industry. The majority of
these institutions were owned by the government. Though there was substantial investment of resources
made by way of human and capital in these institutions they had not provided the desired benefits to the
economy in terms of the services to the industry as most of these Tls were carrying out research in
relative isolation from the potential users. As a result, a major part of the capital and revenue expenditure
of these institutions was met through grants from the govemment. Therefore, one of the major issues of
concern to the government was dependence of these institutions on the government for budgetary
support. The government therefore expected that these institutions should be able to earn about 50% of
their budget from the industry over a period of time thereby reducing dependence on government. The
project aimed to address some of the issues which would facilitate their working with the industry and
achieve the earnings target set by the government. The project assessed that the major reason why
these institutions were not successful in working  with industry was due to deficiencies in the
organizational and incentive structure. Projects were formulated at the initiative of the researcher with
insufficient market information and little or no involvement of the potential users during the R&D phase.
Further, there was not much representation of the industry on the governing boards of these Tls. This had
resulted in contract research  forming only a small part of their research work. Further in several
laboratories the equipment and facilities had become obsolete and needed replacement. Thus the
institutions were not able to generate business from industry. The project was essentially targeted to
improve the functioning of Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) and its constituent
laboratories. CSIR with its network of 42 laboratories and scientific and technical manpower strength of
15000 constituted one of the largest instituticns for publicly funded R&D.



22
Programme Objectives and Design
1.3    The TI programme was specially designed to overcome the shortcomings in the public R&D
infrastructure including systems and structures, facilities and equipment and skills and expertise of the
technology institutions. The programme guidelines stipulated that support should be provided to only
those institutions which demonstrated their potential and willingness to change. Further, the funding was
restricted to those Tls which had a business plan that demonstrated the intention of TI to serve
industry more effectively. Some of the elements which the institutional plan was required to indicate were:
a)     priority areas of research and resource allocation;
b)    revenue generation potential of the project and programme;
C)    involvement of the industry;
d)    technical capability at the institution to provide the services outlined in the plan; and
e)    leadership and management of the technology institution to bring about the changes.
1.4    The instrument designed to support this restructuring was an interest-free loan repayable over a
maximum period of 15 years with a service charge of 1% p.a.
Assessment of Design
1.5    The instrument for funding technology institutions was imaginatively designed as the technology
institutions had in the earlier years received funding only by way of grant. Thus it required a cultural and
mind set change in these institutions even to accept loans. As it was desirable that these institutions make
major investments in future programmes and build up the technological capability the loan was
appropriately kept interest-free. If the loan had carried interest it would have either dissuaded most of the
institutions f-om availing the assistance or even if they came forward it would have led them to focus on
projects bringing short term returns. The interest- free loan thus provided the institutions adequate time
to bring about the desired transition without any compromise on their research focus. With the funding
available only as loan the Tls were forced to interact with the industry before making investment decisions
so as to understand whether the proposed activity matched their needs and had the potential for
improving their earnings to repay the loan.
1.6    The programme funding was open to all autonomous technology institutions both existing and
new. This made it possible to support technology institutions of diverse ownership. While a majority of
those funded were publicly owned, the programme enabled to support some institutions which had
potential for growth but were unable to takeoff because of limited funding options.
1.7    The preconditions for eligibility of financing such as preparing business plan instead of research
plans brought about  a commercial  focus in the technology institutions. It also ensured that the
investment made in assets were of the nature which had potential for revenue generation and usage by
industry. During the course of business plan preparation and also after interacting with the consultants
arranged from  the World Bank  the Tis understood several aspects of technology institutions
management. They became more aware of their costs and were therefore able to appropriately price their
technologies. Tls reorganized their marketing function, recruited people for marketing and provided for
marketing budgets. Several other aspects of the Tls working were overhauled to improve their services to



23
the industry. Many of the Tls upgraded their skills on project management and improved  their
management information system. Assistance under the TI programme enabled the Tis to upgrade the
existing facilities and set up new facilities at par with the international standards.
1.8    The eligible expenditure under the loan included equipment and pilot plants jointly owned and
managed with industry, technology collaboration fees, training and exchange prograrnmes, upgrading of
management system, safety systems and rnarketing infrastructure.
IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE
Organisation
1.9   ICICI quickly put together a dedicated team of professionals with experience in project finance
and industry for implementation of the project. ICICI had earlier implemented a United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) project for financing R&D the experience of which was useful in
implementing this project. Shortly after commencement it was realised that the utilisation of the line could
not proceed at the estimated pace as there was considerable amount of preparation work required in each
project in terms of identifying the needs of the industry and finalizing the specifications of the equipment
and the facilities needed to meet these needs. To facilitate the implementation, the World Bank had
appraised and sanctioned an amount of US$ 24 million to 6 technology institutions before ICICI
commenced implementation of the programme. The 6 Tls included Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) the
national standards organisation, four CSIR laboratories and one private contract research institution. It
was anticipated by the World Bank that ICICI will appraise and sanction assistance to another 6 to 9
institutions out of the balance funds of US$ 16 million. It was expected that most of these would be CSIR
laboratories.
Procedures
1.10  ICICI had to devise its own systerr and procedures for evaluation of the proposals under the TI
programme. ICICI also put together a panel of distinguished industrialists and scientists for sanction of
proposals. Further as the Tls were for the first time availing assistance as loan, close monitoring of the
projects was done by ICiCI. Project implementation was monitored on the basis of measurable indicators
like revenue generation by the TI, number of technologies licensed to the industry, capabilities and
expertise built in new areas and improvement of service to the industry.
1.11   In the course of implementation, some of the first six institutions revised their investment plans
and reduced the project outlays. The savings made thereby as also continuous increase in the corpus of
fund due to change in the exchange rate of rupee from Rs 17 to a dollar at the time of commencement of
the project to Rs 38 to a dollar at the time of the project completion enabled ICICI to fund several more
institutions than was originally envisaged. ICICI also assessed that the restructuring of the existing TIs will
require a longer time. Industry was therefore encouraged in setting up new Tls in technology areas where
existing institutions were not willing to step in. Two such examples are the CARE foundation promoted
for development of biomedical devices specially related to heart care and Centre For Laser Processing Of
Materials to meet the industry needs for lasers in material cutting, welding and processing.
New Areas
1.12   An important part of the national  technology infrastructure are the 6 Indian Institutes of
Technology( IlTs) which are the premier institutions for providing higher technology education. During the
project design stage these institutions were not considered for funding as their primary focus is providing
technical training and education. In the course of implementation of the project it was observed that
many of the SPREAD assisted companies selected IlTs as their partners for development because of the



24
technical competence of their faculty. Later on with approval from the World Bank, two of the IlTs, lIT-
Delhi and IlT-Kanpur submitted proposals and were funded under the programme. The business plan at
IlTs was structured to enable them to not only increase their contract research but also to step up their
programmes for training from industry personnel.
Performance
1.13   By the project completion date a total of 33 Tis as against an estimated number of 12- 15 were
financed under the project. These included 9 CSIR laboratories, 9 laboratories under other government
departments, 8 research foundations, 5 laboratories set up by industry associations and 2 national
technology training institutions. The project was able to cover TIs in a wide range of industrial sectors
such as pharmaceuticals, biomedical applications, engineering, electrical/ electronics, chemicals, leather
and environmental engineering. The facilities setup in these institutions are state-of-art and include
several new and emerging technologies such as rapid prototyping, laser processing, catalyst and polymer
processing, drug delivery systems, microwave electronics, computer integrated manufacturing,
aerodynamics testing and leather processing. 8 out of these 33 Tls have also started repaying the loan
from the revenues generated with these facilities. The success story of one of the publicly funded TI a
CSIR laboratory is given in box 1.
Box 1: Success Story - National Chemical Laboratory
NCL is one of the constituent laboratories of the CSIR. Its major areas of research are catalysis, biochemistry,
organic chemistry and polymers. With the help of consultants arranged through World Bank, NCL was able to
restructure its operations and business plan. With the loan assistance, pilot plants for catalysis, polymer
processing and characterisation, plant tissue culture and membrane synthesis have been set up . In last year
alone NCL filed for 88 patents of which 24 were intemational. NCL is currently working for a number of
intemational companies including Dupont, Rhone-Poulenc, General Electric, Unilever and IC. More than half of
its eamings are from intemational contracts. NCL's extemal eamings also increased at a compounded annual
growth rate of 22% from Rs 28 million in 1990 to Rs 113 million in 1997.
1.14   Another such example is Sriram Institute for Industrial Research an autonomous non-captive
private research foundation. The progress it has made with the help of TI assistance is given in box 2.
Box 2: S'uccess Story -Sriram Institute For industrial Research
Sriram Institute of Industrial Research founded in 1952 by a small group of industries. In the initial years it
focused on developing technologies related to the textile industry and in almost four decades of existence was
unable to make any significant growth in its activities due to limited funding from the promoting industrial
group and "not for profit character" of its operations. The institution was on the verge of closure when the
injection of funds under the TI programme brought about a sea change in its operations. During the period of
the lTD project the eamings of the institution increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 28% from
Rs 20 million in 1990 to Rs 110 million in 1997. The institution currently meets its entire budgetary expenditure
from its eamings from industry. The institution has been able to provide the industry timely, accurate and
reliable third party testing services for a wide range of materials and chemicals. The institution has also
trained a number of persons from industry in analytical testing and has also helped many industrial
organizations to set up their laboratories. The institution has also been able to diversify into new areas such
as calibration services required by companies going for ISO 9000 certification, environmental services and
development of standard reference materials.
1.15   Some of the TIs did not take off as expected and the transformation in the institutions was very
limited. One such example is B.V. Patel Centre for Pharmaceutical Research as indicated in box 3.



25
Box 3: B. V. Patel Centre for Pharmaceutical Research
B.V. Patel Centre for Phamnaceutical Research set up in 1988 by a group of pharmaceutical companies
including Cadila and Wockhardt and also with the support of the state govemment of Gujarat. Its research
areas include bulk drugs, bioequivalence testing and drug evaluation and drug delivery system. Under TI
programme a loan of Rs 27.5 million was provided to upgrade facilities in the above areas. The institution was
expected to undertake contract research and train people from the pharmaceutical industry. However due to
leadership weakness in the institution it has not been able to structure its incentive system for the scientists
which has resulted in high tumover of its employees and has also not been able to organise marketing
department which could obtain research contracts from industry.
1.16   The Bureau of Indian Standards project is another example which also faced difficulty due to
frequent change of leadership and delays in the approval from its ministry.
ASSESSMENT OF SPREAD PROGRAMME
IMPACT
A working model for effective industry -TI collaboration
59 technology institutions covering universidies, research foundations, IlTs and Engineening Colleges, CSIR
laboratories and Laboratories under other govemment departments are collaborating with industry
More than two third projects are from small and medium scale industry and startups
Problems identified in the industry's reluctance for working with the Technology Institutions for
R&D
1.17   Governments in several countries stimulate industry to undertake technology development by a
variety of policies and incentives. Subsidizing the cost of R&D is one of the policy measures. Though
India was spending about 0.9% of its GDP (,1988) on R&D, the vast majority of R&D expenditure in India
was financed by the central government budget and used in public sector Tls. The central government
agencies and public sector accounted for about 85% of R&D expenditure while the private sector
contributed about only 10% to 15% of R&D expenditure. There was no incentive available to industry for
undertaking R&D. Further, as the Tis in the past were assured of their budgets from the government they
had no concern to solicit proposals from the industry. With the reduction in their budgets coming at the
time of the ITD project formulation the TIs had started to look towards industry for projects and funding.
However due to past experience of working with TIs the industry was not forthcoming easily. Some of the
other reasons were that the facilities in several Tls were not upto date and TIs were not able to
demonstrate technologies on a pilot scale which made commercial investments riskier.  The project
management system were not geared to meet the expectations of the industry in terms of project cost and
time.
Project Objectives and Design
1.18   The SPREAD programme was theirefore designed to stimulate the industry to undertake R&D.
The assistance offered under the SPREAD programme was in the form of conditional loan. The interest
on the loan during the implementation periodi was c 6% per annum. This was to enable the promoter to
undertake the R&D with lower financial burden. The interest was stepped up to 15% per annum at the
conclusion of the R&D project. The repay(ment of the loan could spread over a period of 10 years
depending on the project. The loan could be up to 50% of the project cost and could be written off in case



26
of the failure of the R&D project.  Firms receiving the support had to show that their contribution was
additional to what they were doing earlier.
Assessment of Design
1.19   This sub-component was well designed as availability of low cost and long term  funds induced
industry to work with the TIs . The SPREAD programme was the first funding programme in India
specifically for collaborative R&D. The programme by design also addressed the funding of certain
expenditures which was difficult for industry to fund from outside sources. The programme funds enabled
the industry to make investments in pilot plant trials or prototype development. Thus several companies
availing assistance under the SPREAD programme could take their project from the lab scale/ bench
scale to pilot plant operation/ prototype trials and then to commercialization.
SPREAD Programme Implementation and Operational Experience
1.20   Initially the industry was reluctant to work with Tis because of their experience in the past.
However, since working with a TI was essential for obtaining the funding under SPREAD the industry
was driven to the TIs for technology development. The SPREAD programme therefore required extensive
promotional efforts in the initial years of the project. Though there was no budgetary provision in the
programme for marketing and promotion, ICICI took several measures to promote the programme such as
participation in seminar and conferences, publicity in trade journals, business magazines and
newspapers.  ICICI also utilized the database of its own assisted companies and various industry
associations in marketing the programme. In the SPREAD programme ICICI had to set up its own
systems for project appraisal as unlike the TI programme the World Bank had not appraised  and
sanctioned any project under this programme.
1.21   Under the SPREAD programme 98 R&D projects were funded as against an estimated number of
60 covering a broad range of industrial sectors such as pharmaceuticals, electronics and information
technology, chemicals, metallurgical minerals and biotechnology. It may be mentioned that about 80
projects under the SPREAD programme are from small and medium enterprises. The number of
technology institutions involved in working with these companies are 59. Of the 98 projects under the
SPREAD programme, 45 have been successfully completed, 8 have failed while the balance are under
implementation. Some of the projects which have been commercialized have led to improvement in
productivity and quality of products thereby improving the competitiveness of the company. The projects
commercialized based on new technologies have also led to employment generation. More than 30
companies have started repaying the loan as a result of commercialization of their technologies. The
success of the SPREAD programme has demonstrated that a substantial potential exists for funding
indigenous R&D in collaboration with Tis. Two SPREAD projects which have been successfully
commercialised are indicated in box 5 and box 6.
Box 4: Success Story - Dhampur lnvertos Limited
A start up company promoted by an entrepreneur took SPREAD assistance of Rs 6.2 million in 1993 for
development of an enzymatic process to manufacture invert sugar in cooperation with Bhabha Atomic
Research Centre.  The invert sugar is used as a sweetener in confectioneries, pharmaceuticals and
beverages. The enzymatic route offers several advantages over conventional process based on acid
hydrolysis including improved yields and environment friendly process. For commercialisation further
assistance was provided by TDICI. The company is currently having a sales tumover of Rs 58 million and has
50 employees.



27
1.22   As the maximum assistance under the scheme was restricted to Rs. 15 million per project a
majority of the projects came from the small and medium scale sector including start-ups. The maximum
assistance per project was later revised to Rs. 50 million as many good R&D projects from medium and
large scale industry could not be funded. Further, ICICI was selecting projects which had a substantial
innovative content. ICICI also encouraged rnany of the companies to try out newer Tls so that they could
get experience of working with industry. The companies were encouraged to not only restrict their
association with  publicly funded R&D institutions but also include several universities, engineering
colleges and industry promoted research foundations as partners. The SPREAD programme was not
only successful in stepping up the R&D in the industry but also in improving the cost effectiveness of
R&D as the firms were able to compliment their resources with those of the Tls. The SPREAD
programme also helped in shortening the period of implementation of R&D projects as the developmental
activities and responsibilities were shared between the technology institutions and the company.
Box 5: Success Story Shantha Biotechnics Private Limited
A start up company promoted by technocrat took SPREAD assistance of Rs 1.5 million in 1995 for
development of recombinant hepatitis B vaccjne in co-operation with Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology.
The company developed the vaccine and received Drug Controller General of India's permission to commence
commercial production from September 1997. Currently there is no manufacturer of this vaccine in India and
the entire domestic demand is met through imports. Currently a paediatric dose of imported vaccine costs
around Rs 270 and 3 doses are required per child which makes it prohibitively expensive to be included under
the Expanded Programme of Immunisation of GOI. SPBL has introduced this vaccine at Rs 70 per dose (less
than a third of imported vaccine).
Progress of IDA Credit Utilisation
1.23   By the project closing date ICICI had utilised  US$ 58.87 million (Rs. 2080 million equivalent)
against the available IDA credit of US $ 61.18 million under the two programmes (about 96% of the
available credit). It may be mentioned that over the time the ITD project was implemented the fund
denominated in SDR of 44.2 million had increased by about 11% in dollar terms (from US$ 55 million to
US $ 61.18 million). In rupee terms the fund more than doubled due to successive devaluation of rupee
from Rs 17 to a dollar to Rs 38 to a dollar by the project closing date . As the sanctions and
disbursements under the TI programme an(i SPREAD programmes were in rupees the corpus available
with ICICI more than doubled. As mentioned earlier this was the reason why ICICI could assist almost
twice the number of projects than was originally envisaged.
1.24   The year-wise disbursements for the IDA component is given in the table below. It can be seen
that a major percentage of credit was utilised in the last two years of the project. There are several
reasons for the step-up in utilisation in the last two years. One of the reasons was that the World Bank
agreed to certain modifications in the operating guidelines for the two programmes. The changes made in
the operating guidelines was that the maximum limit for assistance under SPREAD project of Rs 15
million was' revised to Rs 50 million. The second modification was reconstitution of the project
sanctioning committee so that the sanction process was not delayed due to the non- availability of
members. Further, around this time the reforms were getting established and the demand from the Tls
and the companies for the funds had increased substantially. In the initial years of the project the Tls were
cautious in their approach to avail loan as they were not sure about its impact. Also it took time for them
to restructure before they were allowed to draw the funds. (Rs in million)



28
(Rs in million)
Year        FYearwise                - Cumulative
SPread  TI       Total    Spread   TI        Total
1996f -7  _- 04---0-0                        23.50     23.50
1990-91    ,0.00    1 23.50   123.50
1991-92                                7 i660   13.90  81.50    i.60 -  97.40  105.00
1992-93     64t1f0 13.90    18.00   -11.70  7 111.30      123.00
1993-94  I   --- ~~~------
1993-94    ! 73.90    96.00   1169.90   85.50    207.30    292.80
1994-95     132.00   118.30   250.30    217.50   325.60   543.10
1995-96    i 101.80  ! 107.00  208.80    319.30   432.60  751.90
1996-9i        192.60   139.70l 332.30    511.90  572.30   1084.20
1997-1998   144.30   852.90  I 997.20    656.30   1425.20    2081.50
Total       656.30   1425.2012081.50   -
Experience with the Bank on the IDA Component
1.25   The supervision and the monitoring of the project by the World Bank was fairly regular and
helped to keep pace in the implementation of the project.  The Bank has identified and arranged a
number of consultants for the technology institutions to train their staff and provide support in preparation
of the business plan. A special mention should be made of Mr. Melvin Goldman the task manager at the
bank who showed keen interest in the project during the entire period of its implementation . He brought
several experts along with him to review the project and also ensured that he visited almost all the
projects both in the TI and SPREAD programme.
1.26   A project of this nature, involving reforms at the technology institutions and promoting a new
culture in the industry requires considerable time and effort for getting accepted. Considering the above
the time available for the implementation of the project was not adequate. A small portion of the funds
(about 4%) under the project could not be utilised as the Bank did not agree to a further extension of
three monthis after December 31, 1997 as there was delay in some of the projects. The implementation
could also have been more effective if the bank had agreed for a two year extension at a time instead of
yearly extensions given twice. This could have helped to remove uncertainty for the borrower and the
implementinig agency regarding the availability of funds.
Experience with the Government
1.27   There was substantial time lag between lodging of claims and in receipt of reimbursement from
the Goverriment during the implementation of the project. This affected the recycling of funds to the
individual projects and thereby delayed their implementation . Also, as the funds to the technology
institutions were to be made available first by ICICI as Tls did not have funds of their own to invest, ICICI



29
had requested for a provision of advance on a continuous basis during the implementation of the project.
However, a small amount of advance was approved after long a period. Had this advance been made
available earlier it would have avoided a number of uncertainties during the period of implementation of
the project. The Government in future multilateral projects should keep a provision for advance to the
implementing agency and should also keep ithe fund flow out of the budgetary process.
UNI:INISHED AGENDA
1.28   Though the ITD project was successful in meeting the objectives of the TI and the SPREAD
programme it could target only a small nurnber of Tls and firms with limited impact on the economy.
Though it succeeded in bringing about a transition in small numbers of Tls it still leaves a very large
population of TIs ( about 300 autonomous scientific research organisations in the country) which
require similar support for transition. Even in the CSIR system only 8 out of the 42 laboratories could
avail of the programme assistance. The reform process has still not been completed and there is further
need of similar support to these institutions to deepen and strengthen reforms. Some of the areas where
these TIs need further support is rationalisation of manpower, downsizing, autonomy in closing certain
activities in non-strategic areas, freedom in setting up the incentive system. Some of these TIs are also
keen to promote their own corporate ientities which will take responsibility of licensing and
commercialisation of their technologies. Further though the project helped the TIs in focusing their
activities and upgrading their assets it will be necessary to build these laboratories to international
standards meeting GLP and ISO requirements. This will then enable them to attract a lot of contract
research from abroad due to the lower cost of technical manpower and its availability.
1.29   The Indian industry is still not able to afford the cost of R&D and needs soft funding support for
technology development. The response to the SPREAD programme has demonstrated that policy support
of this nature is more useful in stimulating industry to spend on R&D as against other incentives like tax
benefits. As the SPREAD project was a pilot project it needs to be continued with substantially more
funds so that the R&D culture can be diffusebd to a far more number of companies. The SPREAD project
also demonstrated a suitable mechanism for supporting small and medium scale enterprises and first
generation entrepreneurs.
1.30   Since the ITD  project was targeted to only a few TIs and companies during the course of
implementation many other Tls and industry became increasingly aware of the programme which led to
substantial jump in the number of proposals received at ICICI by the time the project got completed.
Some of the TIs which were successful in transformation catalyzed many other TIs which initially were
hesitant to request for the loan. Also some of the TIs which were funded under the project were eager
for a second phase of funding as they wanted to increase both the scale and size of their activities. Thus
a strong demand has been created for both SPREAD and TI programme. With the closure of the ITD
project there is no independent funding mechanism available in India for Tls and options with industry for
getting funding for R&D are limited. As these Tls are unable to borrow funds either from the banks and
through capital markets and are therefore requesting that a funding mechanism to support their future
needs should be continued. Though the Government has set up a revolving fund from this credit for
continuation of these programmes ICICI will have to substantially restrict it activities for the next few
years as the loans are repayable over long term period ranging from 10 to 15 years in the two
programmes.
1.31   Going by the experiences of the ITD project the same effort has to be extended to the Universities
and Engineering Colleges. This will not only step up their earnings but also make their programmes more
industry focused. Further there are several areas where support to industry has to be made available.
Drugs and pharmaceutical industry requires support for it to adapt to a regime of product patents. This
requires not only financing mechanisms to support its R&D efforts but strengthening of the existing two
institutions Central Drug Research Institute and Institute of Chemical Biology to support their development
work as also means to support their R&D projects. Central Leather Research Institute with the support of



30
the prograrnme introduced a range of services for leather tanners and processors. The leather industry is
requesting it to start at least two extension centres at new locations where there is concentration of
leather industry. In two industrial sectors which have registered high growth in recent years auto-
components and foundry no dedicated TIs exist which can meet all their needs. Some of the existing Tls
in the engineering sector are partially meeting their need but a concerted effort is needed to support
industry in these sectors. Some of the newly emerging sectors like software and telecommunications
where the technology changes are rapid the Tls need to be strengthened.
Long Term Sustainability of the Activities
1.32   There is still a long way to go before an ultimate objective of financially independent,
commercially viable and industry responsive Tls are created. It will be therefore desirable to continue a
technology financing mechanism for the industry and the technology institutions. This will ensure the
continuation of the reform process initiated by the Tis and also help industry to continuously innovate.
There could be several approaches for establishing the funding mechanism. One approach could be
continuation of the same project with additional funds. This is because the design of the project has been
tested and found to be satisfactory. Another possibility could be to set up a separate and permanent
institution specifically catering to the technology needs of the industry. The World Bank's technical and
financial support will be necessary to make this a reality.



31
PART 2
TECHNOLOGY VENTURE FINANCING COMPONENT
2.1    A total of US$ 45 million was allocated to the four participating institutions in the amounts
previously agreed viz. US$ 20 million for ICICI, US$ 5.5 million to Canara Bank, US$ 3 million to APIDC
and US$ 4 million to GIIC in addition to the inallocated pool to be distributed on a first come first served
basis once the initial allocations were appropriately invested. These funds would be passed from the
Government to the parent companies of the Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) in rupees.
Venture Capital Financing by TDICI through ICICI
2.2    The Bank allocated an amount of US$ 20 million to TDICI for Venture Capital activities through
ICICI. This was further supplemented from the unutilised pool available for utilisation by future allocation
of US$ 13 million. Of the total allocation of US$ 33 million. TDICI has utilised US$ 31.51 million. This
amount of US$ 31.51 million was utilised towards funding/part funding around 125 companies in the
country by way of assistance through venture capital financing. These assisted companies are engaged
in the areas of manufacturing, engineering, pharmaceutical, telecommunication, software, hardware, etc.
Software Fund
2.3    The Bank further allocated an amount of US$ 15 million to TDICI through ICICI (the Software
Fund) to provide special financing packages to the software industry in India which has been growing at
over 50% annually over the last five years. Earlier, a survey undertaken by TDICI on behalf of the Bank
clearly indicated the lack of availability of resources in the traditional forms like term loans, cash credit
etc., from conventional financial sources like Banks and Fls primarily due to poor understanding of the
industry specific issues by these agencies. Keeping this in mind, the Software Fund was conceived to be
a source of both equity and debt. In the limited period of nine months of investment activity (since the ITD
Project closed in December 31, 1997), TDICI was able to make 9 investments aggregating US$ 7.54
million under this fund.
Overseas Training out of Japanese Grant
2.4    Six Venture Capital Companies (VCCs) were identified by the Bank for training of their senior
executives in Venture Capital Companies/Funds in USA/UK, with TDICI acting as the co-ordinating
agency. Ten senior executives of the Indian VCCs were trained abroad for a duration of 16-18 weeks.
Four Chief Executive Officers of the Indian VCCs had a special training of four weeks. Further, seven
middle level executives of the VCCs had a four weeks training in the USA and attended a Venture Capital
Seminar organised by the National Venture C(apital Association, USA. The Indian VCCs utilised a total
amount of US$ 7,28,296 and sterling pounds 53,853 in this regard.



32
PART 3
JAPANESE GRANT COMPONENT
Objectives
3.1    The grant was aimed at financing technical assistance to iCICI and BIS but also for carrying out
studies on development of industrial technology in India. A specific provision was also made for CSIR to
improve its laboratory safety system, marketing setup and also upgrade management information and
planning system at NCL.
Utilisation
3.2    By the project closing date almost entire funds available under the grant were utilised. The grant
component was very useful as it covered the cost of consultants and training which are essential in any
reform process. These are areas were firms and Tis are reluctant to put their resources though they are
essential in any transformational process.
3.3    The Japanese Grant assistance to ICICI helped it to launch a major initiative in management of
technology (MOT) education in India. A study was commissioned to be carried out by Science Policy
Research UJnit (SPRU), University of Sussex, U.K. to assess the demand for MOT education which was
followed by a series of workshops for industry and technology institutions. This resulted in IIT-Mumbai
launching a full time post graduate programme in MOT while several other academic institutions like
Administrative Staff College of India, Indian Institutes of Management (Ahmedabad and Bangalore) have
launched short term programmes in MOT. The grant was also used for training of faculty from these
institutions at SPRU. The grant helped ICICI in getting several international consultants for restructuring
and training of staff at the Tls particularly of the CSIR. CSIR also took several steps to improve the
safety practices in the laboratories with the grant. These included establishment of a central safety cell at
headquarters, appointment of safety officers in laboratories and study tours to some outside laboratories.
CSIR could also train its business development staff from laboratories at Manchester Business School.
NCL using services of Generics Group, plc, U.K could upgrade its management system . The training
provision under this component helped ICICI and CSIR to depute their staff to Tls in UK, USA, South
Africa, Australia and New Zealand to learn from their experiences.
Role of World Bank
3.4    Pursuant to the implementation of the ITD Project, the Bank has played a very important role in
the development of venture capital in India.. It was instrumental in introducing the concept of venture
capital in India. It supported six venture capital funds in their formative stages. It provided the nucleus for
growth to venture capital in the country which today has an aggregate pool of over US$ 1 billion. As
mentioned above it has also provided substantial training inputs to over 21 professionals who today form
the core group of trained manpower in the country in venture capital. And lastly, it was also responsible
for encouraging networking amongst the various Indian VC funds helping dissemination of learning
experiences and syndication of deals.
Impact on the Indian Industry
3.5    The Indian industry received many benefits from the ITD Project. New financial concepts and
products were introduced in the market. The Software industry received a boost. The financial structuring
in the indusitry become more sophisticated on the lines of the practices adopted in western countries. The
long felt need to Employees Stock Option Plan (ESOP) was introduced in manpower intensive business.



33
Professional entrepreneurs were encouraged.  The gap in capital requirements with stringent [PO
regulations was filled. Above all it improved the standards of corporate governance.
Conclusion
3.6    The regular supervisory missions of the Bank to monitor the implementation of the ITD Project
was of immense use to the venture capital industry and other recipients of funds under the Project. The
supervisory team members especially Mr. Melvin Goldman, Mr. Sanjay Kathuria and Mr. Sanjaya Lall
gave appropriate guidance and inputs to TDICI. T he Bank was very co-operative and responded fast in
approving eligible sub-projects for funding under the Project.
3.7    The project could bring about a transition in 30 existing TIs Within these laboratories there are
several other areas which have potential and could not be taken up in this project. CSIR itself has
launched a major programme to bring its laboratories to international level. For this it could use the
project funds for preparing three of its laboratories to go in for GLP/ ISO 9000 certification. However it will
not be able to maintain this pace for accreditation of other laboratories due to constraints for financing.
Some of its laboratories like the Central Drug Research Institute and Institute of Chemical Biology have
been receiving a number of projects from the pharmaceutical industry. However they need to upgrade
their pilot plant and analytical facilities to pursue this work. With the low cost of manpower many of these
laboratories have started receiving contract research assignments from abroad. Some of the services
introduced by the Tls were not available to the industry indigenously and they had to go abroad. An
example is the certification of the agrochemicals for which local companies had to pay US $ 2 million if
they went to sell abroad. The same is being done today at about one-tenth of the cost at Jai Research
Organisation one of the Tls supported under the programme. There is a also a need to support institutions
in areas such as healthcare especially biomedical applications the cost of which is going beyond the
reach of common man. A small step has been taken in this direction by setting up CARE foundation.
3.8    The SPREAD programme  also  received a very good response  from the industry. The
programme demonstrated that though the overall investment by the industry in the past in R&D was low
it could be increased by certain policy measures. There are currently a limited number of programmes
for funding R&D in industry and the corpus of funds and their reach to the industry has been limited. The
financing of R&D projects is also difficult for industry through conventional sources of bank finance due to
the high risks involved and also the difficulty in their orientation of their staff. The venture capital
companies in general also step in to finance projects after the technology development is completed.
Even then they are looking for projects which have very high internal rate of returns . This excludes
several new projects which may be capital intensive and would require large investments in the beginning.
There has been requests from several companies especially in the small and medium scale for the
continuation of this programme as this need for financing cannot be met from other sources.
More Reforms ?
3.9    This is for the first time that the TIs have availed a loan for a project. The very process of
identifying a bankable project, preparing a project proposal and the interaction with the ICICI in this
process sowed the seeds of reforms in the scientists of the Tls. As the project progressed through
implementation, various inputs provided by ICICI by way of workshops, training and use of consultants
created an environment conducive for reforms. The Tls have implemented the projects successfully and
demonstrated their capability to generate adequal:e revenues to service the loan. This is the unfinished
agenda of this project and calls for more radical reforms and therefore more support and facilitating
mechanisms.



34
Annex I
DEVELOPMENTAL IMPACT OF THE TI PROGRAMME
1.    Thirty three leading Tis have taken up programmes in key industrial sectors like chemicals and
petrochemicals, leather, electronics, metallurgy and mining, textiles and garments and environmental
engineering.
2.     The technology institutions include CSIR laboratories, laboratories set up by other ministries of
the government, industrial research associations and research foundations.
3.     The most important impact has been on the industry-orientation and strategic planning process
introduced by several laboratories. The National Chemical Laboratory was one of the first laboratories to
undertake a restructuring exercise in terms of its clientele, areas of research, number and types of
projects, charging of fees and project implementation procedures.  Several other laboratories later
adopted these practices.
4.    IMost of the programmes were formulated in consultation with the industry identifying current and
future needs. This has led to creation of state-of-the-art facilities in areas like footwear design, polymers,
catalysis, textile processing and environmental engineering. The industry is making extensive use of
these facilities. These institutions in turn have been able to intensify their contracts with industry thereby
increasing proportion of market-driven research activities.
5.     Several laboratories have tied with international companies and leading laboratories in the world.
Thus, CL-RI has obtained accreditation from SATRA, UK and is providing cost-effective services to Indian
leather goods manufacturers.
6.     All the laboratories have taken substantial steps in increasing their external revenues.
Implementation of the programmes have enabled many institutions to increase the proportion of external
revenues from 10% -25% to 30% - 50%.
7.     Availing of loan for the first time has led to the TIs acquiring a new perspective on financial
matters. TIs have created new structures have taken help from industry and improved internal systems.
Some of the laboratories have constituted monitoring committees which are headed by the
representatives of the industry. It is being proposed to operate some of the facilities as profit centres.
9.    In the final analysis, the success of the programme is being reflected in the TIs meeting their
financial commitments.



35
Annex 2
Industry-wise Distribution of Projects
Industrial Sector of Projects                  No. of Projects
jPharmaceuticals                               zo00
Electricals/ Electronics                       20.00
Chemicals/ Petrochemicals                      16.00
Metallurgical & Minerals                       15.00
Biotechnology                                  9.00
Machine Tools                                  5.00
Textiles                                       5.00
Composites                                     5.00
Others                                         8.00
103.00
Distribution of Firms and Technology Institutions
Size                                       No. of Companies
Smrall~      ~~ ~~~~~~                     50.00
Medium                                     38.00
Large                                      15.00
103.00
--- -.                                   -'o. o_ .T   _.__  ....
Technology Institution type                 No. of TIs
! CSIR Laboratories                        30.00
Laboratories set up by Govemment           13.00
Universities/ Engineering Colleges          18.00
I Research Foundations                      8.00
l _  __  _           -                     69.00 -



36
Annex 3
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT OF THE SPREAD PROGRAMME
1.    Over 100 R&D projects in all the major sectors like chemicals, pharmaceuticals, electronics,
machine tools, textiles, minerals and food processing.
2.     Several projects in high technology areas like biotechnology and microelectronics.
3.    IMany projects in the field of environmental protection.
4.     More than two-thirds of the companies are from the SMEs.
5.    Over 60 technology institutions are helping industrial firms including 20 CSIR laboratories,
IlTlilSc, several laboratories set up by the government (Ministry of Textiles, Industry and Electronics),
research foundations and many universities.
6.     For a large number of Tis, this is the first interaction with the industrial firms.
7.    About 60% of the companies are interacting with the Tls for the first time.
8.    SPREAD has spurred several companies to go for major R&D initiatives which they could not
have done on their own.
9.    S,PREAD has leveraged R&D budgets of the companies by a factor of 3 to 4.
10.    Participation in the SPREAD programme has helped many Tis in institutionalising mechanism for
interaction with the industry on a sustained basis.



37
Annex 4
COMPARISON OF THE ORIGINAL PLAN AND THE ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION
TI                          SPREAD
No. of projects planned       12-15                        60
Average assistance per project  US $ 2.6 million           US $ 0 .25 million
(expected)                    or Rs. 45 million            or Rs. 4.2 million
(@ Rs 17/US$)                (@ Rs 171US$)
Average assistance per project    US $ 1.1 million         US $ 0.17 million
(actual)                      or Rs. 43 million            or Rs. 6.5 million
(@ Rs 39tUS$)               (@ Rs 39/US$)
Funding available originally  US $ 40 million              US $ 15 million
or Rs. 680 million           or Rs. 255 million
(@ Rs 17/US$)                (@ Rs 17/US$)
Funding available at the project    US $  41 million          US$ 25 million
closure
Disbursements made            US $ 37 million              US $ 17 million
or Rs. 1425 million         or Rs. 656 million
(@ Rs 39/US$)                (@ Rs 39/US$)
The total sanctions under the TI programme are Rs. 1425 million and under the SPREAD programme are
Rs. 656 million. The year-wise disbursements are given below:
Year                     Year-wise                      Cumulative
Spread       TI               Spread       TI
1990-91                  0.00         23.50             0.00        23.50
1991-92                  7.60         73.90             7.60        97.40
1992-93                  4.10          13.90            11.70       111.30
1993-94                  73.90        96.00             85.50       207.30
1994-95                  132.00       118.30           217.50       325.60
1995-96                  101.80        107.00           319.30      432.60
1996-97                  192.60        139.70           511.90      572.30
1997-1998                143.80        842.30          655.70        1414.60
(Rs. in million)



It can be seen that the major sanctions and disbursements took place in the last 2 years of operation.
This was partly due to various measures taken by ICICI for utilisation of the total funds including revision
of the maximum project assistance under the SPREAD programme from Rs. 150 lacs to Rs. 500 lacs,
extensive promotional efforts aimed at technology institutions and major project under CSIR restructuring.
It can also be seen that the disbursements for the year 1993-94 are less than 37% of the sanction amount
in the TI programme and about 25% in the SPREAD programme. This poor disbursement to sanction
ratio is due to the non availability of funds from the GOI for about 2 years. During this period ICICI had
advanced the commercial funds to the sub-borrowers on the loss making basis. ICICI also had to
suspend further disbursements until the signing of the supplementary subsidiary agreement with the GOI.
It has been observed that except the exceptions of the year 1996-97, the reimbursement from the GOI
has occurred only in the month of March of every year irrespective of ICICI being regular in submission of
its reimbursement claims from time to time. This had put a great constraint on the ICICI's ability to
effectively implement the programme. Finally, in the last year of implementation the requirement of
resources was more than the reimbursements received from the GOI. GOI refusal to provide advance
and erratic reimbursements compelled ICICI to invest substantial funds on a loss making basis for a long
period of time.
Japanese Grant
This component of the project was complemented by a technical assistance grant of US$ 2 million
provided by the Government of Japan. This grant would finance not only technical assistance to ICICI
and BIS but also studies to further assist the development of industrial technology in India. In particular,
these fijnds would support laboratory safety system and clientele R&D needs of the CSIR network as well
as upgrading the NCL's management information and planning system. ICICI would receive technical
assistance in technology development management through collaboration with comparable entities in
other countries as BIS would help Indian exporters relate Indian to international standards.



39
AIDE MdEMOIRE
Industrial Technology Development Project (Project ID 9895)
Supervision Mission (June-July 1997)
Introduction:
1.    A Supervision Mission was carried out by Melvin Goldman and Sanjay Kathuria
from June 24-July 3, 1997. The principal aims were similar to the previous mission:
help plan the remaining project execution, particularly regarding use of funds; plan the
effective use of remaining funds in the Japanese grant component; and to try to deal with
the bottlenecks preventing the flow of funds to the project.  The mission visited
Bangalore, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Delhi and met with the executing agencies (venture
capital companies (VCCs), CSIR and ICICI), some of the assisted companies and
institutions, the Over the Counter ExcharLge of India (OTCEI), and the Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Government of India. The mission would like to record
its appreciation for the hospitality and courtesies extended to it.
The Loan
Venture Capital including the Software fund
2.    The table in Annex I summarizes the expected use of funds in the remaining
period of the loan i.e., until December 1997. The mission found that the pace of activity
in TDICI has now picked up considerably, particularly on the software fund. The mission
reviewed and approved three investments by the software fund, which means that the
cumulative commitments to date are about US$ 5 million. By December 1997, TDICI
expects to take the cumulative commitments to at least US$ 10 million, and this figure
could conceivably be higher, given the efforts at marketing the fund and the deals in the
pipeline.
3.    Apart from the software fund, TDiCI expects to utilize its full allotment of US$
33 million on the traditional venture capital component i.e. the remaining US$ 1.5
million. APIDC would also use its full allocation of US$ 3 million (i.e. use remaining
US$ 2 million). GVFL has already been given a total allocation of US$ 9.25 million,
and it has indicated that it may be able to use up to US$ 10 million, or another US$ 4
million (approx.) in the remaining period.  Moreover, additional funds beyond the
allocations of US$ 9.25 million (GVFL) and 3 million (APIDC) would be available in
case these VCCs are able to utilize extra funds by December 1997.
4.    As indicated in Annex I, an amount of about US$ 16.3 million could not be
utilized at the end of the project period. ][t is therefore agreed, as per the request of the
DEA, that the mission will initiate steps to cancel US$ 10 million from the loan.



40
5.    Despite repeated pleadings, the guidelines for venture capital are restrictive in that
they do not give favored tax treatment to the use of standard forms of venture capital
financing, such as quasi-equity in the form of preference shares and various convertible
instruments. The mission recommends that the Central Board of Direct Taxes take a
fresh look at these issues.
The Credit
6.    TIs and SPREAD. As highlighted during the previous mission in February
1997, disbursing the Credit is dependent on immediate and efficient transfer of resources
by the Government to ICICI, to provide the TIs and companies with sufficient funds for
investment. ICICI has delayed execution of many sub-projects for lack of funds, even
after providing a sum of Rs 200 million from its own resources (which, given its cost of
commercial funds, constitutes a loss since it has to on-lend at zero percent to TI clients or
six percent to SPREAD clients).   Moreover, the required resources are not even
counterpart Government funds, but those that are to be reimbursed entirely from the
credit (see also para 10 below). This has become a critical issue since we are now in the
final months of this project, which is also one in which sanctions and commitments have
accelerated very sharply. Despite these problems, the TIs and assisted companies have
responded very well.
7.    CSIR: Progress has been made particularly on the three CSIR laboratories.
However, the HQ still lags although some training activities have been carried out. As
stated in the previous mission reports, a team with time dedicated to the reform program
needs to be in place to ensure smoother progress in implementation and to bring to the
attention of senior management issues when they arise. This reform team would further
need to be complemented by suitable consultants in addition to what has been done so
far, as well as intensive monitoring and follow-up by ICICI's technology group.
Japan Grant
8.    There remains over $1 million equivalent of funds to be used, principally for
CSIR studies, training and technical assistance. Most of this has been programmed.
Progress has been made in defining the OTCEI program . A proposal has also been
agreed in principle to fund the development of an Indian based VC training program.
9.    Annex III shows the projected use of resources from the Japan grant.
Outstanding Issues
10.   The principal issue relates to funds and the inadequacy of flows from the
Government to ensure that the project will be completed in time and the entire IDA credit



41
disbursed.  Between 1991-92 and 1995-96, the Government had advanced funds to
ICICI. However, in 1996-97, the year in which project execution accelerated sharply,
enormous backlogs of ICICI claims for reimbursement are pending with the Government.
For example, out of a total claim by ICICI between July 1996 and March 1997 of Rs 380
million, the Government released only Rs 193 million, and that only in March 1997.
Further claims of Rs 92 million have since been filed by ICICI, and we understand that
claims for another Rs 120 million will be filed in July 1997. As shown in Annex II, there
is still an unutilized amount of US$ 30.4 million in the Credit, or Rs 1082 million. ICICI
plans also indicate that they expect to use up the entire resources available. In contrast,
the Government has budgeted only Rs 400 million in 1997-98 for Credit 2064-IN, which
is completely inadequate. We urge the Government to increase the allocation in the
Budget at the first available 3pportunity to Rs 1250 million (which would take care of the
backlog of past claims by ICICI), as well. as to release immediately the funds for claims
already filed by ICICI.
11.   Although such problems have not arisen so far in Loan 3119-IN, they will arise
later in the year since TDICI is accelerating its use of the Pilot Software Facility of US$
15 million. Undisbursed funds in Loan 3119-IN as of June 30, 1997 were US$ 33.8
million, which would be US$ 23.8 million after cancellation. It is urged that Government
enhance its existing allocation for Loan 3119-IN to Rs 800 million so that there is no
bottleneck in the implementation of venture capital and pilot software financing over the
remaining period of the loan.
Strengthening the Technology Group
12.   There is also a need to inject more experience, know-how and vision into the
Technology group (TG) and ensure that once the project is completed, technology
financing by ICICI continues. Demand by industry and TIs is increasing rapidly and
ICICI's leadership is ready to build up a nmore substantial effort. There remains little time
to prepare for the Bank's exit. The ICICI TG agreed to draw up a business plan and seek
partners for exploring the setting up of ICICI Technology Bank. This should be
encouraged and the Japan Grant can be availed of for this purpose as well as for training
ICICI staff (see also paras 14 and 15 of the February 1997 Aide Memoire).
13.   The mission found further evidence of the entrepreneurship and technological
talent that the project has helped unearth in the small-scale sector. Presentations made by
assisted companies showed the crucial role of SPREAD resources in one case and Pilot
Software in another. Both companies have the potential to become world-class players.
14.   It has been amply demonstrated that small companies play a critical role in the
process of technical change. The Worlcd Bank's project has also demonstrated that if
properly nurtured, many small companies have the potential to grow and become
technological leaders. The mission recommends that the Government continue to support
activities that nurture technological start-ups, such as ICICI's TG as well as venture
capital.



42
Annex I
Loan 31190
Venture Capital Component
Pr ojected use of funds: July - December 1997 ($ million)
TI)ICI
a) Out of previous agreement of $ 33 m                 1.5
b) Pilot software                                     10.0-15.0*
GVFL                                                  4.0
AF'IDC                                               2.0
Total                                                 17.5-22.5
Undisbursed funds as of June 30, 1997                33.8
(including special account)
Amount likely to be unutilized                        16.3-11.3
Amount recommended for cancellation                   10.0
Rupee resources needed in Budget in event of
utilization of US$ 22.5 million                      Rs. 800 million
* (TDICI will try to use the entire facility of US$ 15 million)



43
Annex 11
Credit 20640: SPREAD and TI
US $ million
Undisbursed amount as of June 30, 1997
(including Special Account)                                30.4
L.     CSIR (expected claims)
(Rs million)
HQ                    135
CGCRI                 100
lIP                   150
IICT                  140
Total CSIR (including
Rs 110 million already
disbursed)            525                                   14.8
I.    SPREAD and TI (expected claims)
(Rs million)
TI                    230
SPREAD                190
Disbursed already to TI
and SPREAD but not
claimed so far        184
Total TI and SPREAD           604                                  17.0
Total expected claims by ICICI (including US$ 4 million
already disbursed) on World Bank                             US$  31.8 million



44
Annex Ill
Japanese Grant 27000                                        US Dollars
Unutilized as of June 30, 1997                              1,150,000
(including special account)
1.     CSIR
a. Expenditure incurred but yet to be claimed               329,000*
(Rs. 11.84 million)
b. Expenditure committed and approved by
World Bank for July-Dec. 1997.                           335,000
c. Unallocated                                               65,000
Total CSIR claims expected                                  729,000
11.    ICICI
a. Cross-Country Conference                                  80,000
b. Consultancy for preparing Business Plan                   75,000
(resource persons from ANVAR and BHR to come to India)
c. Visit by senior ICICI Management - 2 persons for 5 days   25,000
to Korea
d. Training support to assisted institutions and companies   25,000
(assisted by BHR)
e. Evaluation of TI program                                  15,000
f. Upgradation of Information Technology resources           15,000
at ICICI
g. Collaboration with CIl (subject to approval)               5,000
Total ICICI claims expected                                  240,000



45
Ill.    OTCEI (through ICICI)
a. Trading in Unlisted Securities: cost to World ]3ank        20,000
(World Bank to provide consultant fees and per cliem overseas;
OTCEI to provide travel costs)
b. National Securities Clearing Corporation           15,000
c. Provision for training in India by overseas experts in
market making                                       65,000
Total OTCEI claims expected                           100,000
IV.    GVFL and APIDC(through ICICI)
Training for GVFL                                     12,000
Training for APIDC                                     5,000
V.     Indian Venture Capital Association
Training and Case study preparation                   60,000
Grand Total                                  1,146,000
* If this is recovered at historical exchange rates, the US$ amount may be higher



