Document of
The World Bank
FOR O'FICIAL USE ONLY
A- A- 3, I-  i&J
-     6    -  (Al                    Report N, 7864-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 15, 1989
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipierts only in the performance of



CURRENCY EOUIVAALNTS
Rs 1     -   US$o.067
Rs 15    -   US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM1S
APIDC    Andhra Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation
ADB      Asian Development Bank
BIS      Bureau of Indian Standards
CanBank  Canara Bank
Canfin   CanBank Financial Services Ltd.
CCPS     Cumulative convertible preference shares
CSIR     Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
CLB      Company Law Board
CLRI     Central Leather Research Institute
CMRS     Central Mining Research Station
DFI      Direct foreign investment
FERA     Foreign Exchange Regulations Act
GIIC     Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation
GOI      Government of India
ICICI    The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI     Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI     Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IPO      Initial public offering
ITD      Industrial technology development
LDC      Less-developed country
MRTP     Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practice Act
MOI      Ministry of Industry
NIC      Newly industrializing country
NML      National Metallurgy Laboratory
NCL      National Chemical Laboratory
OECD     Organization for Economic Corporation and Development
OTC      Over-the-counter market
RI       Research institute
R&D      Research and Development
RBI      Reserve Bank of India
SBI      State Bank of India
SEBI     Security and Exchange Board of India
SFC      State Financial Corporation
SIDC     State Industrial Development Corporation
SOE      Statement of expenditure
TI       Technology ins'itution
TDF      Technical Development Fund
TDICI    Technology Development and Information Company of India Ltd.
UTI      Unit Trust of India
VC       Venture capital
VCF      Venture capital fund
VCC      Venture capital company
VCM      Venture capital management entity



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN. CREDIT AND PROJECT SUTMMARY ...............................   iii
I.   INTRODUCrTON ...................................................        1
II.   INDIA'S INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SETTING .......................        3
A.   Industrial Policy Environment .............................        3
B.   The Financial System ......................................        5
The Capital Market ......................................       7
Venture Capital .........................................        8
III.   INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT IN INDIA .....................    12
The Nature of ITD .........................................    12
Justification and Forms of Government Intervention ........    13
svchnology Institutional Framework in India ...............    13
R&D in India ..............................................    14
The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR).    15
Fiscal and Financial Policies for ITD .....................    16
Technology Import Policy ..................................    17
Recent Developments .......................................    17
Technical Development Fund ................................    18
The Bank's Role in Industry and ITD .......................    19
This report is based on the findings of the March 6-24, 1989, appraisal mission
and the October-November 1988 preappraisal mission. The appraisal mission
consisted of Messrs. M. Goldman (Mission Leader), F. Ettori (Principal
Industrial Economist), P. Wogart (Senior Operations Officer), S. Wu (Technology
Management Specialist) and S. Puri (Consultant). In addition to the same team,
the preappraisal mission included Messrs. K. Mirza (IFC, Capital Markets),
G. Nicolaon (Consultant, Chemicals and Technology Management), R. Toth
(Consultant, Standards), G. Bouchet (Consultant) and H. Alavi (Economist).
Earlier contributions were also provided by S. Trindade (Director, UN Center for
Science and Technology for Development), Ms. M. McDonald (Consultant, Venture
Capital), J. Bredie (Technology Educator) and C. Frischtak (Senior Economist).
This report was prepared by Messrs. Goldman, Ettori, Wogart and Wu.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



* ii -
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT. LOAN AND CREDIT ...................................    21
Objectives and Scope ...........................................    21
Detailed Features of Each Component               .       .         21
A.  Technology Venture Financing ........................    21
B.  Technology Support Servicas .........................    24
C.  Technical Development Fund ..........................    26
Project Cost and Financing                   ..                     27
The Loan and Credit                      ..                         28
Relenling Terms and Conditions                 .        .           29
Procurement                         ..     31
Disbursement                         ..                             32
Reporting and Audits                     ..                         33
V.   PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS. INVESTMENT CRITERIA
AND PROJECT BENEFITS ..................... ...................    34
A.   Technology Venture Financing .............................    34
Technology Development and Information Company
of India, Ltd ...........................................    34
Canara Bank and CanBank Financial Services, Ltd ...........    35
Andhra Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation .........    35
Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation .................    36
Investment Guidelines .....................................    36
B.   Technology Services Component .............................    37
ICICI .....................................................    37
Bureau of Indian Standards ................................    39
The CSIR Institutes .......................................    39
Shriram Institute for Industrial Research .................    40
Selection Guidelines ......................................    40
C.   Benefits and Risks ........................................    41 1
Benefits ..................................................    41
Environment and Safety ....................................    42
Risks ...    ..............................................    42
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................    44
ANNEXES
1.   Financial System Summary
2.   India Capital Market
3.   Venture Capital Guidelines
4.   Selected Data on Research and Development
5.   Foreign Collaboration and Technology Payment Data
6.   Technical Development Fund (TDF) Guidelines
7.   TDF and Ministry of Industry:  Organizational Guidelines
8.   Technical Assistance for Technology Support Serv4ces
9.   TDICI
10.  Canfina
11.  APIDC
12.  GIIC
13.  Technology Institutes and Subprojects
14.  Sponsored R&D Promotion Fund Guidelines



- iii -
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Loan. Credit and Project Summar=
Borrover:                India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:           Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)
Canara Bank (CanBank)
Andhra Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation
(APIDC)
Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation (GIIC)
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
Amount:                  US$200 million comprising:
(a) an IBRD loan for US$145 million equivalent; and
(b) an IDA credit for SDR 44.2 million
(US$55 million equivalent).
Terms:                  US$100 million of the IBRD loan would be made at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate and be
repaid over 20 years including 5 years of grace and
the balance of US$45 million for the venture
financing component would be repaid over 16 years
including 7 years of grace. The IDA credit for the
technology services component would be on standard
terms with 35 years maturity.
Relending Terms:         Venture Financing Component.  US$45 million of the
Loan would be on-lent in rupees at a rate of 12%
p.a. repayable over 16 years including 7 years of
grace, with interest capitalized during the grace
period. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.
Technologv Services Component. ICICI would serve
as a managing agent on behalf of the Government for
the US$55 million component. US$40 million of the
IDA credit would be on-lent in rupees to research
and standards institutions with no interest charge
but with a service fee consisting of 1% on
outstanding balances and a commitment charge of
0.25%. The repayment terms would be for a maximum
of 15 years with 4 years of grace. The balance of
US$15 million of the Credit would be relent in
rupees as conditional loans with an interest rate
of 6% p.a. during the grace period, and to be



- iv -
repaid at an interest rate of 14% p.a. and/or on
the basis of royalty payment after the grace
period; however, subloans to unsuccessful projects
would be written off. The terms would depend on
the likely period for commercialization of the R&D
results. ICICI would also receive 2% p.a. from the
interest charges and 15% of royalties to cover the
costs of appraisal and management.
Project Description:    The project objectives a:e to boost technology
acquisition, development and commercialization in
India. It would strengthen a number of domestic
technology institutions (TIs), build effective
venture capital management institutions, and
develop better links between the industrial sector
and research institutions. The project comprises
three complementary components respectively aimed
at: (a) financing technology innovation by small
and medium enterprises through four venture capital
schemes; (b) strengthening the capacity of research
and standards institutions to provide technology
services to industry and promoting collaboration
between industry and research instittutions; and
(c) the import by industry of technology and
technical know-how through the Technical
Development Fund, a fast-track procedure for
promoting technology modernization. Technical
assistance and studies would also support the first
two components.
Benefits and Risks:      The venture capital component is expected to
finance over 400 small, innovative and growth-
oriented ventures and lead to the development and
commercialization of many new products and
processes. The technology services component is
expected to strengthen 10 to 15 research and
standard instit-ates, build their industrial support
programs and lesd to the development of new
technologies for industrial firms by about 30
institutes and universities.  Between 600 and 800
firms are expected to benefit from the TDF
facility, and modernize and/or diversify their
production line as a result. Such an innovative
project with untried components involving many
institutions is inherently risky with respect to
its implementation and repayment by the final
beneficiaries. The improved policy framework is
fostering competition. and stimulating demand for
technology. First evidence suggests a large pent-
up demand for such financing. Furthermore, the
institutions have been carefully selected and
appraised, and are committed to the innovative
programs they will carry out. Management of the



- v .
technology services component by lCICI also
provides confidence that the most difficult
component of the project will be efficiently run.
Close supervision will be provided throughout the
life of the project.
Estimased Costs:
Logal     Foreign      r Jtal
---- (US$ million) ------
Technology Venture Financing             70.0      100.0       170.0
Technology Support Services             49.0        41.0        90.0
Technical Devclopment Fund                         150.0       150.0
Total Costs                       119.0       291.0      410.C
Financina Plan:
Government of India                        -        50.0        50.0
Financial Institutions and
Investors                               35.0      55.0        90.0
Project Sponsors                           63.0      4.5        67.5
Government of Japan                         1.0      1.5         2.5
IBRD                                        -      145.0       145.0
IDA                                        20.0     35.0        55.0
Total Financing                     119.0      291.0     41.\
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year            90    91    92    93    94    95       96
Annual                   20    37    50    61    23       6      3
Cumulative               20    57   107   168   191   197    200
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not applicable.
&aR:                  IBRD 21651



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Industrial Technology DeveloRment Project
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The gradual reform of India's industrial regulatory environment over
the past decade with its increasing reliance upon market forces and
competition has already had positive effects. Industrial growth rates have
averaged nearly 9% p.a. during the past four years, and the growth of
manufacturing exports has exceeded 25% p.a. in real terms over the past 2
years compared with 5.7% p.a. and 1% p.a. during the first half of the 1980s,
respectively. Investor confidence is evident from the large growth of foreign
investment as well as of the number of shareholders and amounts invested in
the domestic capital market. The industrial policy reforms, which are
described in part A of Chapter 2, have fostered a more competitive environment
which is in turn leading to a raised awareness of the need to improve
productivity and quality. As a result, technological upgrading has become a
major concern of many firms as demonstrated by industry's increased demand for
imported and domestic technology and its growing investment in R&D. This has
been demonstrated already through the increase in total factor productivity of
4.2% p.a. between 1981 and 1987 after two decades of stagnation.
1.2      Previous policies and institutional development efforts for
industrial technology development (ITD), described in the first part of
Chapter 3, have focused on technological self-reliance and government
involvement in R&D activities and in the selection of technology on behalf of
industry. The Government is now evolving a strategy which builds on three
fundamental policy thrusts. First, the strategy involves a gradual transfer
of decision making regarding technology choice arnd R&D from the public sector
to the firms with a concomitant shift in expenditures from the Government to
the enterprises. This is closely related to the second thrust, namely, the
increased emphasis on product and process development, quality improvement,
standards diffusion and commercialization of technology in place of basic
research. Lastly, the strategy recognizes the importance of relying more on
technology import and thereby using domestic resources more efficiently to
complement what can be obtained from abroad. Technology policy will
ultimately rely upon a competitive industrial sector to choose and finance ITD
from the best available sources with Government supporting an effective and
collaborative technological infrastructure and an incentive structure which
rewards successful ITD.
1.3      The proposed project would support three key aspects of this strategy
to stimulate more rapid domestic technology development and provide industry
with easier access to technology from domestic as well as foreign sources.
First, it would support the development of new technology ventures through
assistance for four new venture capital initiatives. Second, the project



-2-
would promote increased and more productive supply of technology services by
R&D and standards institutions to industry and strengthen selected research
and standards institutions. To help ensure a more balanced recourse to
foreign and domestic technology, the project's third component would provide
assistance for obtaining easier and increased access by industry to imports of
technology.
1.4      Since some of the major elements of a technology strategy are still
being formulated and others remain to be implemented, Bank participation at
this stage can have a major impact on the long term direction of technology
strategy.  This is a unique opportunity to support a major effort by the
Government to redirect technology strategy to support a more competitive
industrial environment. Previous Bank studies of various industrial
subsectors and the regulatory environment, culminating in the report on
Policies for Industrial Technology Development (No. 6715-IN, May 11, 1987), as
well as subsequent dialogue on issues and policies related to ITD have
provided input for the Government's technology policies. Bank involvement in
project preparation has already had an impact on the plans and strategies of
selected research, and the standards, institutes and, with support from the
IFC, on the institutional structure for venture capital. More broadly, Bank
participation in industrial technology development complements other Bank
efforts to promote increased industrial competition and modernization, improve
competitiveness of key industrial subsectors and train technical manpower for
industry.
1.5      Chapter 2 provides the industrial and financial sector context for
the proposed project, emphasizing the recent industrial policy reforms and the
basis for which the Government is attempting to promote venture capital.
After a brief discussion of the nature of industrial technology development
(ITD) and the Government's role in its promotion, Chapter 3 includes an
historical account of India's ITD and efforts to evolve the strategy which the
project supports. The reforms adopted in the research network under the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR, paras. 3.12-3.14) and in
technology import under the Technical Development Fund (TDF, paras. 3.23-3.26)
are highlighted since they form the basis for the second and third components
described in para. 1.3 above. In Chapter 4, a detailed description is
provided of the project and how the loan and credit would operate, while
Chapter 5 contains summary descriptions of participating institutions, the
investment/selection criteria and the project impact. Chapter 6 summarizes
the agreements to be reached with the Government and involved institutions.



-3-
II. INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.  Industrial Policy Environment
2.1      The Indian industrial sector has achieved considerable success in
attaining the post-Independence goal of self-sufficiency, and has developed
production capability across virtually the entire spectrum of industrial
activity. This success has not been without considerable cost. The
industrial growth rates were consistently below Plan tagets and
substantially lower than in many other industrializing nations. Growth in
manufacturing output, wl'tch averaged about 4% p.a. between FY74 and FY81,
increased to only 5.7% in FY81-FY85 period. Rigid investment licensing and
controls on output and technology acquisition led to a state of permanent
product shortages that inhibited competitive behavior. Furthermore, the
high import barriers created by widespread quantitative restrictions and
high tariffs effectively isolated many Indian industries from the
technological developments in the rest of the world. The rigidities
created by the regulatory system not only constrained firms' ability to
enter new markets and expand, but also limited their ability to restructure
and/or close down. In many sectors, continued production by financially
weak--"sick"--firms, via subsidies, undermined the viability of the
remaining more efficient units. The heavy indirect taxes on all stages of
production had a cascading effect that raised domestic prices, further
constraining firms' ability to expand markets and achieve economies of
scale. As a result of these policies, Indian firms in many industrial
subsectors are below international standards in terms of techr.ology, scale
and efficiency, and offer products at high prices and variable quality.
This environment has also contributed to India's disappointing export
performance. Lack of incentives for export activities and the maintenance
of the rupee at an artificially high exchange rate during the first half of
1980s led to an environment where manufactur^d exports (which account for
about 70% of India's tota. exports) grew on average at less than 3% p.&. in
real terms over the period FY80 to FY86, and represented a small and
dec'lining share of industrial output (less than 5% in FY85).
2.2      The Seventh Plan (1984/85-1989/90), annual budgets, the Long-Term
Fiscal Policy and recent official policy statements have set out a series
of policy reform objectives designed to address some of the major problems
indicated above. Since 1985, GOI has initiated a series of discrete policy
actions which when taken together have already made significant
improvements in the industrial policy environment. The reforms in
industrial policies have been complemented by some liberalization of the
financial sector especially in the capital markets (paras. 2.14-2.15). The
policy reforms implemented since FY85 can be grouped under four broad
areas. The first is the liberalization of the domestic regulatory system
by: (a) removing license requirements for investments first up to about
US$4 million and more recently up to US$11 million in developed areas, and
up to US$37 million in backward areas, as well as reducing significantly
the number of subsectors that require a license; (b) giving firms much more
flexibility to adjust botb output mix and capacity; (c) allowing greater



- 4-
import of capital goods and technology by permitting a majority of capital
goods to be imported under open general licenses (OGL) and easing
restrictions on technology imports (discussed in detail in paras 3.24-
3.29); (d) reducing the number of products reserved for production by small
scale industries; and (e) easing the monopoly regulations by increasing the
threshold level and expanding the product areas in which firms classified
as monopolistic can invest.
2.3      The changes in the regulatory framework have been complemented by
a policy of licensing more capacity (relative to estimated domestic demand)
compared to earlier practice, to induce greater domestic competition and
exportable surpluses. Minimum import content of 15% for projects which
required a license has been increased to 30%. The phased manufacturing
programs have been modified to reduce the targeted domestic content from
90% to 70%. Minimum economic scales have been established in many product
groups to reduce inefficient import substitution. As elaborated in
Chapter 3, licensing for foreign technology collaborations has also been
eased to allow Indian industry to catch up with the rest of the world.
2.4      Taxation.  The second area of reform is a series of measures to
improve the tax system including: (a) reduction and simplification of
income and corporate taxes; (b) implementation of a modified value added
tax that facilitates indirect tax deduction for exports; and (c)
rationalization of tax incentives for small scale industries.
2.5      Exit.  The third area of reform has been attempts to deal more
constructively with the increasing problems of sick firms and industries,
especially after deregulation and increased ease of entry. Until recently,
financial institutions and state governments had been constrained to
maintain "sick" industrial enterprises functioning through different
schemes thus burdening their portfolios. To deal more effectively with
obstacles to closure, restructuring and rehabilitation of firms, the Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, established procedures
for identifying and resolving the worst cases of financial difficulties.
The Act established the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
(BIFR), with quasi-judicial powers to order and speed closures, mergers,
and other changes, including the power to override some other industrial
legislation, in particular the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Act (MRTP). The current obligation of a company with completely eroded net
worth to report to the BIFR, and the coordination of all involved parties
to arrive at a rapid recommendation, should rationalize and speed up the
decision-making process on the rehabilitation or closure of sick units.
While the creation of the BIFR is a major step forward, its ability to act
efficiently is likely to be constrained by the fact that its activities are
confined to firms where net worth is already fully eroded. Consideration
is now being given to allowing BIFR to become involved earlier before a
firm's financing plight has become so difficult.
2.6      Exports.  The last area of reforms is export policies and
administration where the most fundamental and consistent changes have been
made. The most important change has been the adoption of a flexible and
realistic exchange rate policy conducive to export growth. The real
effective exchange rate has depreciated more than 30% since the end of



1985. At the same time the Government has introduced and streamlined the
duty exemption schemes for imports used 'n export production, and now
almost all inputs are importable by exporters without restrictions and
payment of duties. For firms still using duty paid inputs and domestic
inputs, the Government has streamlined the administration of the duty
drawback and the refund of excise taxes on domestically produced inputs to
reflect actual tax incidence.
2.7      As a result of these policies and an expansionary macroeconomic
policy, industrial growth has accelerated to an average of nearly 9% p.a.
during the last four years (85-88) compared to less than 6% over the
preceding five years. While this rapid growth was partly in response to
the expa;ision of public spending which has created increased demand for
industrial products, the improved policy environment has contributed
substantially by enabling firms to adjust the volume and composition of
output to meet this increased demand.
2.8      Although recent policy improvements have been far reaching and
impressive, more remains to be done to increase the competitiveness of
Indian industry. With the exception of export policy, where fundamental
changes have been made, the incremental nature of other reforms have
created pockets of improved competition coexisting with subsectors where
there has been little improvement. Import liberalization has been
primarily in capital goods, technology, some intermediate products and all
irputs for exports. Severe constraints on public resources and foreign
exchange availability, the complicated structure of existing industrial
policies and strong political sensitivity have necessitated a gradual,
step-by-step approach to liberalization in India. Rapid growth of exports
as well as industrial restructuring caused by greater competition can be
expected to reduce these constraints significantly over the next few years
and allow the Government to accelerate its reform program, especially in
the more difficult areas of greater import liberalization and industrial
exit policies.
B. The Financial Secto 1/
2.9      During the last 25 years, India's financial sector has been part of
the fiscal and planning process of a highly regulated economy. Resource
mobilization has been a notable success. National saving rates have been in
the 22%-24% range in the 1980s with household saving 15%-17%. Household
savings have been both rising and passing increasingly through the formal
financial sector since the 1970s. Broad money is now about 45% of GDP, a high
figure for a developing country and particularly notable given India's low per
capita tncome. In addition to bank deposits, there are substantial post
office savings and a wide choice of other forms for saving, including one of
the largest capital markets in the developing world.  Maintenance of
reasonable, slightly positive, real interest rates for deposits, less than
I/ The World Bank Report, India: Credit and Capital Markets Study
(No. 6661-IN, February 27, 1987) provides a comprehensive analysis of
the Indian financial sector.



- 6 -
double digit inflation, and the spread of banking offices (which have grown
from about 8,300 in 1969 to over 55,000 currently) have been important factors
in the resource mobilization. This growth and the increasing financialization
of private saving have permitted India to finance the decline in public sector
saving and growing central government deficit (now about 9% of GDP) with low
inflation and scant evidence of crowding out of private investment.
2.10     The Indian financial system is highly segmented with different roles
clearly earmarked for the various institutions. A summary description of the
financial system is presented in Annex 1. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
performs the traditional central banking role as well as a development role by
providing refinanv.e lines and promoting new specialized development finance
institutions. The financial sector is dominated by the banking system, which
as of June 1988 had total assets of over Rs 1,420 billion, of which 91% were
accounted for by the 28 public sector banks and the rest by the 20 private
Indian banks and 30 foreign banks.
2.11     The industrial develogment finance system comprises national- and
state-level development banks and investment institutions. At the national
level, the predominant development banks are: Industrial Development Bank of
India (IDBI), Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited
(ICICI), and Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI). These
institutions sell financial assets directly to the public, raise their
resources from banks, the domestic capital market, bilateral and multilateral
scurces, as well as some commercial borrowings from abroad. Their major
emphasis is on channeling long term finance to private and joint (mixed)
sector companies. Since the early 1980s and increasingly since 1985, the
delicensing policy of the Government has forced these institutions to evaluate
their borrowers more carefully and offer an increasing array of other
financial services, ranging from merchant banking and leasing to more recent
attempts of providing venture capital. The State Finance Corporations (SFCs)
and State Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs) are the state-level
development banks. The SIDCs are promotional agencies of the State
Governments that extend loans and take equity participations. Their main
shareholders are the respective State Governments and the IDBI, and they
receive most of their resources from the ILEI and the GOI/RBI.
2.12     In India, the financial system has evolved to support primarily
industrial projects carried out by existing firms. Development banks finance
projects essentially with debt. Many SIDCs provide equity to new firms to
allow them to meet the minimum equity requirements to secure the debt
financing needed for their projects.  Thus, many medium sized Indian firms
wanting to expand can finance most of the expansion with debt from the
development banks. However, a growing number of young firms, particularly
knowledge intensive technology companies, have capital needs that are not
covered by tangible assets and have advisory, planning and representational
needs not normally provided by traditional lending institutions. Despite the
more liberal lending policies of development banks, the standard approach to
financing has become increasingly inadequate for small and new Indian
companies focusing on innovation and growth.



-7-
The Csaital Market
2.13     India's 14 regional stock exchanges, of which Bombay's is by far the
most important, are markets for shares and debeutures of private firms and for
long-term Government securities. There is also a growing market in Treasury
bills, and a money market for interbank funds and commercial paper. The
government securities market, although largely captive to the banks and
insurance corporations, forms the largest segment of the market. The
structure of the capital market and its past development are described in more
detail in Annex 2.
2.14     Measures to diversify the markets and improve the attractiveness of
issues by start-up firms have included the introduction of new instruments
ruch as Cumulative Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS). These securities
count as equity, carry a 10% dividend and are convertible into straight equity
after three to five years. Also liquidity has increased--particularly in the
debt markets--with the major public sector investment institutions playing an
important role in maintaining secondary markets. Finally, the Government has
introduced legislation to protect investors and boost confidence in the
markets, and new institutions such as a stock holding corporation have been
set up to simplify the purchase of securities.
2.15     In response to the various changes in regulations and fiscal
incentives the capital markets have grown rapidly in the 1980s, and
particularly since 1985. The volume of equity issued (including rights and
preference shares) increased fivefold to Rs 8.8 billion in 1986 from
Rs 1.77 billion in 1982. The debenture market also grew significantly over
the same period when the amount issued more than doubled to Rs 5.9 billion
from Rs 2.4 billion. The average price index on Bombay's Stock Exchange
jumped from 188 in 1981 to 583 in 1986 and about 600 in 1988. In general, the
relaxation of guidelines controlling debenture issues brought down financing
costs to companies, especially the cost of working capital, in comparison to
bank loans. At the same time the yields to investors on these securities have
been higher than those paid on comparable bank deposits. These capital market
developments have encouraged finarcial institutions to expand their activities
to leasing, mutual funds, credit cards and other higher income earning
activities to compensate for the declining margins on their basic lending
activities.
2.16     The capital market also displays a number of problems common to other
developing countries, which are likely to constrain its further development.
Although overall volume in the secondary market is fairly large by LDC
standards, active trading is confined to a small number of issues. In the
Bombay exchange, less than a quarter of the listed shares are traded every
week. Second, settlement procedures are weak relative to the fairly large
volumes of trades. Third, market makers do not seem to function efficiently,
resulting in wide swings in prices and large margins between quoted bid and
asked prices. Fourth, insider trading is not regulated, which has justified
the intervention of the Controller of Capital Issues (CCI) of the Ministry of
Finance in the pricing mechanism for new issues (see para. 2.26). Fifth,
there is a general lack of information on both the markets' activities and the
issues themselves. To help remedy this latter problem, a rating agency was
launched recently as a subsidiary of ICICI. Finally, the stock exchange is



-8-
not multitiered, which restricts the trading essentially to well-established
companies which comply with stringent criteria for disclosure and past
records. The need has emerged for a second- and third-tier or an over-the-
counter (OTC) market for privately held companies with little or no trading
record. A regulatory body, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI),
was recently established to address these issues and ensure the stability and
efficiency of the capital market.
2.17     Many young Indian firms now turn to the capital markets to raise a
portion of their funds. However, the public equity markets are not the most
appropriate source of capital for small young companies. Firstly, companies
wishing to be listed must have a minimum e-nuit) of Rs 30 million and a minimum
public offer of Rs 18 million (US$1.2 million). The costs associated with a
public issue are disproportionately high for a company raising a small amount
of capital, often reducing the proceeds by 10% or more. Furthermore-, once a
company has made a public offering, it must comply with stringent reporting
requirements and deal with outside shareholders, which can divert management's
attention from the important issues associated with launching and building a
new company. And finally, the markets have not been receptive to young growth
companies needing new capital, making them an unreliable source for growth
capital.
Venture Canital
2.18     Venture capital (VC) has characteristics which makes this instrument
of investment finance particularly well-adapted to the development of the
Indian stock market and to the needs of the emerging small and medium sized
industries with a focus on technology/market innovation. First, it involves
equity or quasi equity investment, which means that the investor shares the
risk, since his investment will be unsecured. Second, it is a long term
investment. The venture capitalist invests with the objective of making a
significant capital gain over time (and hence a superior return on his
investment) through the growth and success of the companies he finances.
Third, VC is an active (rather than passive) form of investing. To realize an
attractive return, the investor must be prepared to be involved actively with
the companies financed, and to contribute expertise and assistance, in
addition to capital, to maximize the potential for success. Finally, VC can
be used at all stages of the corporate development cycle. It can be used as
seed capital, when there is little more chan a prototype in place, as start-up
capital to enable a new venture to move into commercial production, or to
finance expansions, acquisitions, or management buy outs.
2.19     The growth of the venture capital industry worldwide, where it has
thrivel, has been driven primarily by the emergence of innovative and growth
oriented small and medium sized businesses. While the culture and the
economic environment surrounding such firms in India is different than in many
industrialized countries, the investment opportunity is the same. India
already appears to have generated a class of technologically innovative growth
oriented firms that need capital to grow, and as the government proceeds with
its liberalization policy, even more such firms are likely to emerge. By
making VC more readily available to these firms, more of them will be able to
realize their potential, creating significant benefits for the economy while
delivering attractive returns to their investors.



-9-
2.20     VC has a significant role to play in India.  Given the Indian
Government's policy to encourage the commercialization of new technologies,
the integration of existing technologies and the adaptation of foreign
technologies, there is an increasing need to finance a company's growth,
rather than a particular project. In many technology intensive sectors (e.g.,
the software industry), capital is required to pay for the development of the
product, to study the market and to establish distribution networks. These
front-end working capital requirements, critical to the growth of the
companies involved, cannot be readily accommodated by the development or
commercial banks.
2.21     It is estimated, on the basis of the number of technologies and
licenses transferred and contracted out by the various sources of local
technology that the total demand in India for VC financing to commercialize
locally sourced technologies would amount in the next 2-3 years to Rs 1-2
billion (US$67-133 million) p.a. Of the latter estimate, Rs 500 million p.a.
would be for technologies developed in government-sponsored and university
laboratories and Rs 0.5-1.5 billion p.a. from the R&D units of industrial
associations and enterprises. There is an additional significa't unquantified
demand for adapting and commercializing technologies licensed from abroad.
The most conservative estimates project a demand for VC financing of at least
Rs 1 billion (US$67 million) p.a.
2.22     VC has become an increasingly attractive activity for institAtional
and other investors. Some SIDCs have made equity at.d quasi-equity investments
in start-up high tech firms over the past 15 years. Pilot VC schemes have
been set up recently by all-India development banks (IDBI, IFCI and ICICI).
With the changes in the industrial regulatory environment and the
establishment of a regulatory framework for venture capital in late 1988,
initiatives have been recently taken, or announced, by a number of financial
institutions. Unit Trust of India (UTI) and ICICI jointly established in
March 1989 a Venture Capital Trust Fund (VCF) of Rs 200 million, to support
technology/innovation ventures. SBI and Canara Bank announced also the
creation of VCFs with initial amounts of Rs 150 and Rs 100 million,
respectively.
2.23     The Controller of Capital Issues (CCI) published in November 1988
Venture Capital Guidelines (see text in Amnex 3) establishing the framework
under which venture capital companies/funds (VCC/VCFs) would be officially
recognized and granted fiscal exemptions. The Guidelines reflect a cautious
approach designed to maximize the likelihood of success of VC financing for
technology-innovation ventures during the initial peri_l of experimentation
and thereby demonstrate the viability of VC in India. For this reason, during
the initial phase the Guidelines focus on promoting VC under the leadership of
well-established financial institutions.
2.24     The Guidelines also allow for a significant role to be played by the
private sector. First, funds mobilized by the VCFs can be raised through
public issues and/or private placements for up to 60% of the VCF resources.
Second, the shareholdings of foreign investors and of promoters in the equity
of VCCs and Venture Capital Managing bodies (VCMs) can amount to up to 25% and
20%, respectively. Finally, private and foreign banks are eligible to
initiate VC under the Venture Capital Guidelines and thus receive the same
status and benefits as other financial institutions.



- 10 -
2.25     VCF investments are expected to focus on technology-inrovation
projects. At least 75% of funds should be invested in "eligible" ventures,
i.e., projects promoted by professionally and technically qualified
entrepreneurs which use technologies which 'are new or relatively untried or
closely held cr taken from pilot to commercial stage, or incorporate
significant improvements over the existing ones in India" (para. 3(i)(b) of
Annex 3). Investments by VCFs would be made mainly through equity and quasi-
equity instruments; supplementary support in the form of loans and quasi-loans
would also be possible.
2.26     Disinvestmeat by VCC/VCFs of their equity (or convertible quasi-
equity) investments should permit such institutions to be compensated for
their high risk and early stage assistance by sale prices commensurate with
the risks taken. The main routes for disinvestment in most countries include
repurchase by the promoter (or the investee company) at an agreed price,
initial public offerings (IPO) on the Stock Exchange (including the OTC
market) or sale on the secondary market, and private sale to another party or
company. There have been, or are, limitations with each of these exit routes
in India. Prices allowed for IPOs in India have been regulated by the
Controller of Capital Issues (CCI), which generally does not permit premium
prices reflecting fully the future growth potential of the company issuing the
shares.2./ Sale of shares at market prices which incorporate such potential
would be possible only on an OTC or the secondary markets. An OTC market does
not yet exist and access to the secondary market presupposes that the investee
company has become publicly held, which is not easily achievable for most
small young companies in which VC is generally invested. Finally, India's
Company Act excludes the exit route of the investee corporation (but not the
promoters as individuals) buying back its own shares from a VC investor.
2.27     The key issues have been, or are being, addressed adequately.  First,
the Venture Capital Guidelines have given to the officially recognized Venture
Capital Institutions the freedom to fix the IPO price of equity shares
publicly sold at disinvestment, on the basis of objective criteria such as
book value, profit earning capacity, and expected future earnings. Such
pricing freedom represents a substantial reform over the past controls
exercised by the CCI. Second, ICICI, together with UTI, SBI and Canara Bank,
has taken all preparatory measures, with the Government's concurrence, to open
by June 1989 an OTC market for small/start-up companies. The OTC market will
operate under the aegis of a new company, to be created jointly by the above
institutions with some assistance and involvement from the SEBI. With these
two major innovations, it is expected that the disinvestment by the VCFs can
be accomplished effectively and profitably through IPOs on the stock exchange.
2.28     The tax concession approved in the 1989-90 Budget Law grants to VCCs
a 60% deduction on long-term capital gains which represents an improvement in
/ The CCI has the authority to fix the price of IPOs, either at book
value (without any premium), or according to formulae permitting a
maximum premium of 100% over book value.



- 11 -
the tax incentive framework for venture cap: al in India. Other VC income
(royalties, interest earnings, dividends) would be taxed at the normal rates
of 50-60%, depending on the exact legal status of the VCC/VCF.
2.29     In order to minimize their tax liability, practically all existing
and forthcoming VC schemes have chosen the formula of a Trust Fund for
channelling resources to VC. This mechanism provides two advantages. First,
Funds do not fall under the Company's Act and the Company Law Board (CLB)
regulations, some of which could limit the freedom and flexibility of VCCs'
investing and disinvesting activities..I/ Second, Funds mobilizing resources
froi- several investors and promoted by financial institutions can be
rec.gnized by the Ministry of Finance as Mutual Trust Funds, and granted the
total tax exemption already given to existing investment mutual funds. The
Mutual Trust Fund formula provides a satisfactory legal, regulatory and fiscal
framework for the initial phase of VC operations in India.
2.30     However, to ensure that VC operations will remain unimpeded by
potentially counterproductive regulations or prior approval requirements,
assurances have been provided that the Government will continue to provide an
adequate framework for the promotion and efficient operations of Venture
Capital, and in particular that VCCs and VCFs will have the freedom to:
(a) invest in equity shares of their clients without approval from any
authority or regulatory body;
(b) sell their equity shares on the capital market without prior
approval of any authority or regulatory body at prices which they
will determine, based on objective criteria including market
prices and expected future earnings; and
(c) use, in addition to common equity shares, all other financial
instruments ranging between equity and loans, such as conditional
loans or income notes, which they judge to fit the needs of each
investment.
J  Section 372 of the Company's Act normally precludes intercorporate
share investments above 25% (10% until recently) of the investee's
equity without prior approval of CLB.



- 12 -
III. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT (ITD) 1/
3.1      Prior to the mid-1980s, India's industrial development had been
characterized by capital intensive import substitution, leading to steady but
relatively slow growth during most of the preceding twenty five years.
Despite the development of a broad and sophisticated technological
infrastructure and large expenditure on R&D, empirical studies have
demonstrated /  that overall productivity growth of industry through the
early 1980s was marginal.   As a consequence, the GOI has made the enhancement
of productivity and quality in industry--i.e., technology development--a major
objective of the broad reorientation of industrial strategy currently under
way.
The Nature of Industrial Technology DeveloRment
3.2      Industrial technology development (ITD) comprises activities aimed at
the utilization of specialized technical knowledge for developing or improving
industrial products and processes. While governments can provide a favorable
framework for stimulating technological change, ITD takes place largely within
industrial firms. Building up ITD capability, and achieving a balance between
foreign and local sources of technological change, are essential components in
developing an industrial sector which is efficient, and is able to adjust to
changing markets and resources, and to export. In most less developed
countries (LDCs), ITD is confined to the selection, acquisition and operation
of technology and minor improvements in the course of operation. Technology
is largely acquired from abroad, mainly embodied in imported industrial
plants, equipment and intermediate goods.
3.3      Leading firms in India and other newly industrialized countries
(NICs) add considerable domestic value to imported technology through local
design and engineering, adjusting input parameters to local factor endowment
and market characteristics. For this, they utilize a mix of in-house
resources and services provided by local engineering firms, R&D organizations
and sometimes higher education centers. Technology is imported more
selectively, mainly as product and process licenses, designs, technical
services to solve specific problems, as well as quality assurance methods,
instrumentation and reference standards. A stock of technological knowledge,
expertise and management skills is built up in the firms and specialized
institutions and gradually disseminated in the economy.
i/ The World Bank Report, India: Policies for Industrial Technology
Development (No. 6715-IN, May 11, 1987) provides a comprehensive
analysis of major elements of India's Industrial Technology Policy.
2/ Ahluwalia, I. Industrial Growth in India, Stagnation Since the Mid-
Sixties. (New Delhi; Oxford University Press, 1985).
B. Goldar, "Import Substitution, Industrial Concentration and
Productivity Growth in Indian Manufacturing;" Oxford Bulletin of
Economics and Statistics, 48(2), 1986.



- 13 -
Justification and Forms of Government Intervention
3.4      Governments in all industrialized nations, most NICs and some LDCs
have adopted policies and incentives to stimulate ITD. This is justified
mainly on the grounds that social returns from ITD are generally higher than
private returns. External benefits associated with ITD include the diffusion
of specific knowledge, development of specialized manpower and innovative
management skills, and contribution to building up a competitive business
environment. At the same time, investments in ITD are considered to be
riskier than those for other industrial activities, because of greater
technical as well as market uncertainties. Even where ITD is not at the
frontier of industrial innovation, considerable risk is associated with
developing new products and processes and achieving adequate quality and
prices in large scale production. ITD may be unprofitable, therefore, to
individual firms, despite being desirable to society as a whole in the context
of a large and more diversified investment portfolio. Even when entrepreneurs
are willing to invest in ITD, gaps in the capital market inhibit financing
these activities.
3.5      Government support for ITD comprises a mix of policy, investment, and
institutional development measures. Industrial, trade, credit, foreign
investment and taxation policies, although not specifically directed to ITD,
strongly influence the firms' demand tor ITD and the relative use of foreign
and domestic resources to meet these needs. Policies and progr-ms in the
education sector, while also normally not directed at ITD, have a major long-
term impact on industry's technological capability to define their needs and
contribute to ITD. Explicit ITD policies include fiscal and financial
incentives such as grants and low cost credits for ITD investment, public
sector procurement used to promote development of domestic suppliers,
regulation of technology import, and protection of intellectual property
rights. Simultaneously, governments promote ITD by investing in the R&D
capabilities of public and parastatal industries, developing an infrastructure
of industrial standards, R&D and information services to support industry in
general, and funding and/or encouraging specialized ITD financing agencies.
Technologv Institutional Framework in India
3.6      Beginning in the early 1940s. but principally since independence, a
wide array of institutions have l-'en built largely within the public sector to
support the development and di eision of technology. Their activities
encompass virtually all those generally found in the industrialized countries
and advanced NICs. They now include a Min,stry of Science and Technology,
over one hundred research and development (R&D) institutes, as well as
institutions responsible for: stat.dards and product certification; patents and
other forms of intellectual property; technology diffusion to small-scale
industry; technical consulting at the state level; and regulating the inflow
of foreign technology. These institutions were established largely between
the 1940s and 1960s as part of the Government's thrust of industrial and
technological self-sufficiency. Their establishment and growth was intended
to lead industrial modernization, and also to encourage Indian scientists and
engineers to remain in, or return to, the country.



- 14 -
3.7      With notable exceptions, these institutions have by and large not
lived up to their expectations. There are pockets of world-class R&D, a well
developed standards institution, and a number of R&D and technical consulting
institutions which transfer substantial technical knowhow to industry. There
is also widespread recognition that the resources, human and capital, of those
institutions constitute a large endowment of technological capability.
Nevertheless, it is increasingly recognized in India that these institutions
have on the whole not provided the benefits to the economy warranted from the
outlays of funds over the years. The task at hand, therefore, is to mobilize'
more effectively that endowment to serve economic objectives.
R&D in India
3.8      What distinguishes India's technology infrastructure from that of
other NICs and LDCs is the extensive network and, consequently, large
expenditure of predominantly public sector R&D institutions.!/   Research
Institutes (RII) exist in virtually every sphere of economic activity --
agriculture, space, defense, and in most subsectors of industry. India spends
0.9% of its GDP on R&D, a significantly higher percentage than nearly all
developing market economies including Brazil and Mexico, and second only to
South Korea, which reached India's current level only in 1982, but has since
1987 exceeded 2% of GDP. (For reference, industrialized countries ge-ne;ally
spend 2% to 3% of their GDP's on R&D).
3.9      The vast majority of the R&D expenditures in India are financed by
the central government budget and used in public sector institutes. The
public sector accounts for over 85% of R&D expenditures, while industry,
public and private, accounts for between 21% and 25% (see Annex 4, Table 1).
The actual figure is probably around 30% when contract research is properly
accounted for. Furthermore, while public and private R&D investments have
grown rapidly in real terms, the Government's has grown even faster (Annex 4,
Table 1) with a consequent reduction in the private and overall industrial
share of total R&D spending. This pattern of expenditures reflects the
Government's push for self-reliance in the postindependence era and the
limited concern by industry to develop technology.
3.10     Industry's concern is changing.  Reported industrial R&D expenditures
have increased rapidly, at over 21% p.a. in nominal terms, between 1976/77 and
1986/87, partly perhaps in response to fiscal incentives (see paragraph 3.17),
while over the same period, the number of firms with recognized R&D units has
risen from 125 to 950. The growing recognition of the value of in-house
research by industrial enterprises is also corroborated by a survey of about
200 firms, in which the number of firms performing R&D and the level of
expenditures increased steadily over the 10-year period 1975-84.
Nevertheless, the volume and intensity of R&D efforts among India's industrial
firms remain low, even in technology-intensive sectors. Although organized
in-house research is indeed concentrated in a few subsectors (electrical and
electronic industries, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, and engineering goods,
which together accounted for 775 of the recognized R&D units), even in these
subsectors (with the exception of pharmaceuticals), firms have average R&D
i2/ Some advanced countries, most notably France, have similar networks.



- 15 -
intensities below 1% of sales (see Annex 4, Table 3), which is much lower than
that of their counterparts in Korea or Brazil.
3.11     To shift more R&D spending to industry while encouraging the RIs to
seek to provids greater economic impact, GOI is attempting to change the
orientation of public sector RIs by encouraging industry to shoulder more of
the financial burden and therefore to help define the activities of the RIs.
Council for Scientific and Industrial Reserach (CSIR)
3.12     The governument approach to changing the previous pattern of
relatively small projects of basic and applied R&D carried out in relative
isolation from potential users is illustrated by the example of the Council of
Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), an important beneficiary of the
proposed project. CSIR is the largest pool of R&D infrastructure for
|          industry, spends 6.5% oF the total resources devoted to R&D and includes many
well-qualified, and some outstanding, scientists and engineers. The CSIR,
which now comprises 42 industrial research laboratories (including two which
are jointly run with industry), was founded during World War II with a mandate
to carry out applied research to find substitutes for imports from local new
materials. This emohasis, which fit well1 with the post-independence era goals
of import substitution and self-relianze, is still a major thrust of CSIR
research.
3.13     While it can boast a number of important accomplishments, the CSIR
displays many of the characteristics typical of publicly funded research
laboratories in many countries. The organization and incentive structure of
CSIR institutions have discouraged close collaboration with industry, which
previously was not formally represented in their governance. Contract
research forms only a small part of their work. Projects are typically
formulated at the initiatives of the researcher, often with insufficient
market testing and involvement by potential users during the R&D phase. As a
result, industrial firms which are aware of the activities of the CSIR
laboratories and avail themselves to some extent of their personnel, training
courses and specialized facilities, have let these institutions go their
separate way.
3.14     The disparity between the RIs' output and industrial needs became
increasingly apparent. It was also clear that with industry's expanded demand
for and competence to deal with improved technology, CSIR laboratories might
find a more responsive chord if they strengthened their formal and informal
links to industry and demonstrated that they had something to offer. Thus,
the recommendations of the Fourth Review Committee on the CSIR became official
policy in February 1988 when the CSIR Society, chaired by the Prime Minister,
decided that by 1992/93 one third of RI revenues would be generated from
sources other than the budget and the percentage should reach 40% by 2000.
Further measures adopted to build links between industry and the RIs include
increased representation of industry on the governing board of CSIR;
encouraging more effective technology transfer to industry through building
engineering design capability and links with engineering design organizations;
encouraging the RIs to do their own technology marketing and to establish
their own marketing cells; and encouraging researchers to consult with
industry by permitting them to augment their incomes substantially. There has



- 16 -
also been an effort in recent years to strengthen management of the
institutes, including attracting managers with extensive experience in
industry, both in India and abroad. In a number of the RIs, there is already
a notable change in outlook, but cultural and institutional reorientation on
the scale envisaged will require large, sustained and creative efforts.
Fiscal and Financial Policies for ITD
3.15     By comparison to nearly all industrialized countries and NICs,
India's fiscal and financial incentives for firms to engage in R&D have been
few and relatively small. Until recently, the fiscal regime permitted firms
with recognized R&D facilities to deduct 100% of capital expenditures
(including land) for R&D from taxable ,'ncome in the year incurred. Further,
sponsored research in technology institutions was eligible for a weighted
deduction of 133% for tax purposes until 1984. Users of indigenously
generated technology received an extra 10% investment allowance. Various
other benefits existed for shorter periods of time. Most of these tax
incentives have either been lowered or withdrawn during the last three to four
years. The only remaining incentive is accelerated depreciation allowance for
equipment, whose technology has been developed in "approved" firms with "In-
House' R&D.
3.16     In theory, since tax incentives should be automatic, minimize
bureaucratic interference, and facilitate business planning when predictable
within a stable fiscal regime, they should be an efficient route to stimulate
R&D by firms. In practice, in many cases fiscal instruments do not achieve
their goal, since they work only to the extent that firms pay taxes and the
administration system is effective and transparent. Moreover, they are
subject to interpretation and administration, susceptible to misuse, and
generally biased in favor of established, large and diversified firms. Even
when they seem to work, their indirect nature makes it difficult to unravel
their impact and analyze their overall effectiveness.  In sum, while India has
used the fiscal system to promote industrial innovation directly, their impact
on R&D is probably limited, particularly if fiscal incentives are granted and
withdrawn as rapidly as they have been in the last ter years.
3.17     India's direct financial support for technology development by
industry has also been limited, particularly in comparison to countries such
as South Korea and the US. Financial institutions have been providing
financing at preferential interest rates for upgrading and modernizing
technology in the two largest subsectors: textiles and capital goods. In
addition, the IDBI also provides rupee financing for modernization and
technological improvement of existing firms through the Technical Development
Fund (TDF) (see paragraphs 3.23 to 3.26 below) as well as for various
machinery subsectors under the recently created Technology Upgradation Scheme.
The small "Productivity Fund" in ICICI created under the Bank financed
engineering export project finances software imports for technological
upgrading of Indian firms.
3.18     Two complementary initiatives supported under the proposed project
would begin to address the inadequacy of financing to firms for ITD. First,
the experimentation with and recent promotion of venture capital (Chapter 2)
is considered to be an appropriate unsubsidized financial approach for



- 1, -
stimulating commercialization of innovative products and processes by small,
growth-oriented firms. The second is an attempt to stimulate industrial,
principally medium- and large-scale firms to use the existing R&D
infrastructure by financing sponsored R&D and increasing the amount of
resources that firms spend in existing centers.
Technology Import Policies
3.19     The consequence of India's build-up and heavy expenditures for
domestic technology infrastructure has been, until recently, the limited
reliance on foreign technology. GOI deliberately limited direct foreign
investment (DFI), restricted imports of capital goods, and controlled
technology licensing, technical assistance and other forms of disembodied
technology imports.  Attempts to integrate local ard imported technolo6y and
ambitious programs of indigenous technology development were often hampered by
inefficiencies and delays, leading to an approach of importing technology in
the context of large-scale turn-key contracts. These imports were typically
not based on the latest designs and were not accompanied by adequate
provisions for assimilating the technology by the importing firm. They
ultimately led to undue dependence on foreign sources of technology, which,
after becoming obsolescent, led to a repetition of the cycle. The policy and
institutioaial changes :required to break this cycle and promote effective
transfer and absorption of industrial technology in India are now slowly
emerging in the context of general liberalization of industrial policies.
3.20     Cumbersome procedures were established to regulate the import of
"disembodied technology," i.e., licenses, royalties and technical services,
despite India's reliance on licensing as the major conduit of foreign
technology.  As a result, payments for disembodied technology as a percent of
GNP in 1979 was .08 compared with .40 for Brazil, .20 for South Korea, and .30
for Mexico. The set of relatively restrictive regulations found in India,
combined with a limited market, lacking dynamism and strong competitive
forces, have not stimulated firms to update their technologies, modernize and
innovate. Although some restrictions on technology imports may have fostered
the development of certain local technological capabilities, they have more
often curbed their effective use.
Recent Developments
3.21     Although there have been no fundamental changes in either foreigq
investment laws and/or the regulations governing foreign collaborations and
imports of capital goods, there has been a gradual but significant
streamlining and speeding up of the bureaucratic process. Time taken for
decisions on foreign investments and collaborations as well as on imports has
been cut significantly. The Import-Export Policies of 1985-88 and 1988-1990
increased by over 30% the number of machinery items on OGL (Open General
License for imports). An interministerial committee is meeting regularly with
representatives of foreign countries to iron out problems arising in foreign
investment and collaborations.
3.22     Those and similar efforts have increased the inflow of foreign
capital investments significantly in the early 1980s, and--after reaching a
plateau in the mid-1980s--are showing new signs of rapid growth (see Annex 5,



- 18 -
Tables 1 and 2). Average annual direct foreign investment (DFI) approvals
rose from an average of about Rs 60 million in the late 1970s to over Rs 1
billion p.a. in 1984/86; in dollar terms this represented a twelvefold
increase. In 1988/89, DFI approvals reached Rs 2.32 billion for the year,
double that of each the previous 4 years. Similarly, the number of foreign
collaboi.itions (including those without DFI) experienced a quantum jump in
1980/82 from an average in the late 1970s of 275 to over 500 per year, and
reached around 950 per year in 1985 to 1988.
Technical Development Fund
3.23     With the recent expansion in the scope of the Technical Development
Fund (TDF), the Government has taken a significant step in improving the
technology import regime. The TDF was set up in 1976 with the support of a
Bank loan to provide funding and rapid approval of imports for technology
modernization. The TDF is no longer a fund, but rather an automatic foreign
exchange allocation for foreign technology acquisition under a special
procedure. The procedure is administered by a Ministry of Industry-led
committee and provides all necessary approvals/licenses for firms requesting
technology from aLroad. Firms with TDF-approved imports can also obtain rupee
financing from IDBI (see para. 3.17). Until recently, firms could make use of
the TDF under severely restricted circumstances, with the result that during
1986 and 1987 TDF technology imports amounted to only about US$40-50 million
annually, roughly equally divided between technical know-how and capital
goods. There were many constraints on the TDF facility use--the permitted
quantities of imports by each industrial unit were low and rigidly applied;
the scheme was available only for technological upgrading by firms, with
capacity expansion permitted only up to 10%; and it was not available for new
products, for certain types of capital equipment, more than once per year,
etc.--which made it impracticable for most forms of technological
modernization based on imports.
3.24     These major limitations have now been removed.  With the issuance of
new guidelines in April 1988, a quiet but important opening to foreign
technology was approved--the TDF is open to most forms of technology import
and can become a major window for small and medium sized technology imports
which do not involve DFI. Implicit in the liberalization of the TDF is GOI's
desire to concentrate its reviews on major, high-cost technology collaboration
including foreign investment, permitting relatively easy access of existing
firms to most of their foreign techrological needs. This is a major step
which is in line with recommendaticns made in the Bank's sector work and
policy discussions. A further liberalization of the TDF incorporated in
revised guidelines of March 1989 opens the door even wider, raising the
ceiling per industrial unit further, removing capacity constraints and certain
industrial licensing requirements.   Based on the growth in demand in the
latter part of 1988 (Table 1, Annex 7) and very conservative projections for
future years, it is expected that imports under the scheme will rise rapidly
from US$45 million in 1987/88 to US$150 million by 1991/92, and for the 2
1/2-year period, from September 1989 to harch 1992, would exceed US$300
million, compared to less than US$150 million projected if there had been no
revisions.



19 -
3.25     The TDF removes most impediments to the import of technology.  It
does not discriminate by kind of firm. It promotes technological competition
among firms, since it permits explicitly for the first time imports of
technologies already available in India for quality, reliability or price
reasons. Processing is rapid and there are no limits on the number of
applications made by each firm. It provides for rapid approval for
contracting a technical specialist from abroad, importing a part of a
technical package, or entering into a low cost licensing agreement even for
new products. Plant expansion is also no longer constrained and there is no
"restricted" list of capital goods. The TDF can be used by firms provided the
cost for all technology imports under the scheme by an industrial unit is no
greater than Rs 30 million (about US$2 million) p.a. and 50% higher for
exporters--even those limits are applied flexibly.
3.26     Annex 6 contains the full text of the two guidelines.  These two
major reforms of the TDF are the basis for the TDF component of the project
and consequently confirmation has been obtained that any revisions of the
guidelines and procedures of the TDF which limit access of industrial firms to
the TDF would be subject to Banl approval.
The Bank's Role in Industry and ITD
3.27     The Bank has made 19 development finance loans amounting to
US$1.4 billion through financial intermediaries (mainly ICICI and IDBI), for
on-lending to private and joint sector firms engaged in all aspects of
industry. Three were channelled through IDBI to SFCs and SIDCs for relending.
Two (Loans 2629/30-IN and 3058/59-IN) have been specifically for export
development, while the most recent development finance loan (Loan 2928-IN)
also involves US$50 million to the major government steel company. SAIL, for
technical assistance to upgrade technology and improve efficiency. The Bank's
experience with IDBI and ICICI in implementing past projects has been
discussed in recent Project Completion Reports (PCRs). T.he most recent PCR
for the Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Project (Loan 2051-IN)
indicated that while the 14 loans were successful in supporting ICICI's
institutional development, they did not seriously address the policy
environment within which its lending took place. As highlighted in
para. 3.30, recent and future projects, and in particular the proposed
project, integrate institutional development with support for industrial and
financial policy reforms in the subsector or generic area (e.g., technology,
exports) of the respective projects.
3.28     The Bank Group has also provided US$3.2 billion for projects in the
fertilizer, cement and petrochemicals subsectors where opportunities existed
for the Bank to support policy reforms at the subsector level and finance
economic investments using modern technology. Implementation of these
projects has been generally satisfactory. All projects currently under
implementation are expected to have satisfactory rates of economic return and,
despite some initial delays, to be fully disbursed by the respective closing
dates.
3.29     The Bank has had an active industrial sector work program and
prepared a number of sector reports on such subjects as industrial regulation,
technology policy, export promotion, public enterprise management and credit



- 20 -
and capital markets and a number of subsector reports including electronics,
automotive products, steel, capital goods and fertilizer. Most of these
reports emphasize the need for policies and incentives which promote
aodernization and technological upgrading of industry. Many of the issues in
these reports will continue to be discussed with the Government in the context
of future operations.
3.30     The ongoing and future lending program for industry is primarily
based on the sector work program and will thus include:
(a) industrial finance projects which will serve as a focal point for
evaluating and discussing with Government overall progress on
industrial and financial policy reform, as well as addressing issues
in the financial institutions;
(b)  technology, export, industrial energy conservation and industrial
pollution projects which will seek to improve the policy, financial
and institutional support for activities in these key areas; and
(c) subsector projects which will provide policy, technical and financial
support for economic investments in areas where improved technology
and efficiency will have implications for the growth of the whole
industrial sector (e.g., petrochemicals, electronics, cement and
capital goods).
In all of these areas, the lending strategy invol res supporting investments in
areas where policy improvements have already ber indertaken.
3.31     With respect to ITD, the Bank strategy is built on government
initiatives to promote more efficient use of the country's technological
capability. Bank efforts are aimed at helping to consolidate and expand the
institutional and regulatory reforms related to ITD and thereby encourage a
more balanced recourse of industry to foreign technology on the one hand and
domestic efforts on the other. Discussions relating to the Sector Report,
"India: Policies for Industrial Technology Development," (No. 6715-IN,
May 11, 1987) and the preparation work related to the proposed project have
already helped define and expand the institutional and policy reforms needed
for sustained ITD. However, the institutional reforms as well as regulatory
changes needed for India to increase the effectiveness of its technology
system require consistent and long-term commitment.
3.32     The proposed project will complement other contemporary projects
which deal with related issues. The Electronics Industry Development Project
(Loan No. 3903/4/5-IN) aims to support the modernization and expansion of a
subsector critical for the technology upgradation of the industrial sector at
large. The Export Development Project (Loan No. 3058/59), approved by the
Board on May 12, 1989, includes financing of technical assistance in
technology-intensive areas with promising export potential (e.g., software).
The recently approved Vocational Training Project (Credit NO. 2002 and Loan
No. 3045) as well as two technical education projects currently being prepared
s-upport the training of the technical manpower required by Indian industry.



- 21 -
IV. THE PROJECT. LOAN AND CREDIT
O')lectives and Scope
4.1      The overall objective of the project is to facilitate the acquisition
and development of technology by industrial firms in India. The project aims
at promoting within industry a balanced recourse between existing domestic
technological capability and increased and easier import of foreign technology.
The project also aims to reduce the financial constraint to new technology
ventures and the foreign exchange constraint to technology import.
Specifically, the project would (a) help small, innovative firms obtain
investment resources by building the regulatory and institutional framework for
venture capital in India; (b) provide industry with increased access to
domestic technclogical capacity by strengthening the capability of selected
research and standards institutions to support technological development in
industry and promoting directly collaboration between industry and technology
service institutions; and (c) provide industry with easier and greater access
to foreign technology through support to the TDF.
4.2      The project has three components:
(a)  Support to four venture capital entities for financing
technologically innovative and growth oriented small enterprises.
(b) Assistance for technology service institutions (TIs), principally
research and standards institutes, to serve industrial needs and for
industry to utilize the existing TIs for R&D.
(c) Support for expansion of and easier access to the TDF.
The three components are an integrated program that helps build improved
access of Indian entrepreneurs and firms to technological know-how, domestic
as well as foreign, and capital which they require in India's increasingly
competitive environment.
Detailed Proiect Description
A. Technology Venture Financing
4.3      US$45 million of the loan would be relent by the Government to four
financial institutions to finance part of their equity investments in the
venture capital funds (VCFs) established by them or their subsidiaries. Each
VCF would consist of investments made by the respective financial
institutions, as well as when feasible, funds raised from the public and
institutional, including foreign, investors.
4.4      Each VCF will be managed either by ani affiliate or by a specialized
unit of the participating institution (the "parent" institution) as detailed
in Chapter 5. Assurances have been provided that for each participating
institution, staff allocated to venture capital operations would be selected



- 22 -
on the basis of their experience with previous technology projects and equity
investments, as well as their business orientation. Appropriate on-the-job
training in VCCs abroad would be provided to selected staff under a
comprehensive TA program (para. 4.9). The managing institution, i.e., the
VCM, would earn management fees between 1% and 2.5% of the VCF or the
investment portfolio as well as a share of the profits paid out from the VCFs'
earnings. Each VCM has opted for a slightly different fee structure giving
varied weight to profit-sharing and fixed management fees. All of them are
acceptable.
4.5      The initial allocation of the component between the four financial
institutions would be:
- US$20 million to ICICI, an all-India DFI;
- US$5.25 million to Canara Bank, a commercial bank;
- US$3 million to APIDC, the Andhra Pradesh SIDC; and
- US$5.25 million to GIIC, the Gujarat SIDC.
An additional unallocated amount of US$11.5 million would be available to be
drawn upon on a "first come, first ser-sed" basis by each of these institutions
after it has exhausted its initial allocation. The allocation as well as the
corresponding size of the respective VCFs were calculated on the basis of
conservative projections of likely demand as well as the absorptive capacities
of the respective institutions. Based on the current pipelines of each entity,
the demand appears likely to exceed greatly the initial availability if
resources. Bank-financed subloans would finance one third of the VCFs' total
amount. This share of one third would be in line with the share of expected
debt and quasi-debt instruments in the VCFs' portfolio (See Table 4.1).
4.6      The VCFs would be invested primarily in equity and quasi-equity
instruments such as CCPSs, convertible conditional loans, income notes and
other convertible debentures.j,' A minor part of the VCF could be used to
extend normally convertible medium-and long-term loans; such loans would not be
made in isolation of equity and quasi-equity investments to a client company
1/  (a)  CCPS: Cumulative Convertible Preference Shares (see para. 2.14).
(b) (Convertible) conditional loan: an advance repayable from
royalties on sales if the project is successful, and written off
if not.
(c) Income note (or bond): a debenture with a repayable principal and
with interest payments above a floor level linked to the project's
sales or cash flow.
(d) Convertible: any instrument which can be converted into common
equity at, beginning or by some agreed future date, normally at
the option of the holder of the instrument.



- 23 -
and would not substitute for traditional lending activities of the VCFs' parent
companies. A mix of financial instruments provides the VCMs with the
flexibility to tailor their financing to the circumstances of each investment.
In many new ventures, for example, percentage financing requirements are large,
and thus, to avoid holding majority ownership in such ventures, while sharing
in profits and risk requires alternatives to simple equity, which can include
future convertibility options, a fixed interest or dividend stream, and/or
increased guarantees for recouping the initial investment. The mix of
investment instruments projected by each of the participating institutions
would be as follows:
Table 4.1: PROJECTED MIX OF INVESTMENT INSTRUMENTS BY THE VCFs
(%)
Investment Instrument        APIDC    GIIC    Canfin    TDICI    Total
Equity                         75        50      60        27       40
Conditional loans              -         10      15        51       34
Income notes                   -         20      12         -        5
Standard loans                 25        20      13       22        21
Total                    100      100      100      100       100
4.7      The basic parameters used in the financial projections prepared by the
VCFs' parent companies are more conservative than those experienced by VCCs in
industrialized countries, reflecting the expected relative infrequency of buy-
outs of investee companies, slower anticipated market response to successful
companies and produc,s, and remaining constraints on earnings in India's stock
exchanges. In broad terms, 40% of equity investments and conditional loans are
assumed to be entirely written off, resulting from failure of the investees.
One fifth of the equity investments are expected to be highly successful and
generate at disinvestment (7 years after investment) a capital gain of 5 to 8
times the par value, and dividends of 12-17% p.a. in years 5 to 7. These
parameters for capital gains reflect conservatively the past experience of
successful new companies in India. The other 40% of equity investments would
only generate a capital gain of 2 times the par value at disinvestment.
Complementary debt instruments (standard loans and income notes) are expected
to carry lower risks.
4.8      Projected returns on the various instruments reflect the fact that the
riskier instruments yield the higher returns. The overall returns on total VCF
funds, after accounting for the operating expenditures of the managing units,
are in the 15-18% p.a. range, which is in line with the returns earned in India
on other financial investments. The parameters used along with projected
income and cash flow statements for each VCF are presented in the respective
Annexes 9-12.



- 24 -
4.9      Technical Assistance.  To assist the four VCMs in learning how venture
capital operations are handled successfully in other countries, an amount of up
to US$500,000, which is expected to be provided from the proceeds of a grant
from the Government of Japan (para. 4.24), would finance the foreign exchange
costs (travel, subsistence, fees) of a training or internship program and
related technical assistance for the staff selected or designated by the VCFs'
parent companies to manage VCF operations. The program would comprise on-the-
job training or internship in selected US, European or Asian VCCs of two to
three professionals for up to 1.5 man-years from each VCM. Arrangements,
including terms of reference of interns and any further training as well as
fees, would be subject to Bank approval. In order to minimize the disruption
of its operations, each VCM would send abroad one staff at a time. The details
would need to be worked out and negotiated with individual VCCs aboard. The
program is estimated to total the equivalent of some 50 man-months, at an
average cost of up to US$10,000 per man-month.
B. Technologv Support Services
4.10     Of the US$55 million IDA credit, US$40 million would finance 12-15
technology service institutions (TIs) and the remaining US$15 million would
support a Sponsored R&D Promotion Fund for financing R&D projects contracted by
industrial firms with TIs. US$2 million of the grant from the Government of
Japan is expected to finance technical assistance, training and studies for
CSIR, ICICI and BIS for institutional development. The entire component would
be managed by a technology group (TG) in ICICI.
4.11     Technology Institutions.  Of 15 TIs submitting proposals, six were
selected and appraised. The six are the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS); four
research institutes (RIs) affiliated with the CSIR (see paras. 3.12-3.15), and
one private, contract-research RI; they are described in paragraphs 5.18-5.23
and Annex 13. With the exception of BIS which is India's preeminent standards
and testing institute, the remaining institutes' main function is research,
though each carries out other activities including testing, consulting and
troubleshooting for industry. Project funds earmarked for the above
institutions amount to about 60% of the subcomponent and are based on detailed
cost estimates including physical and price contingencies.
4.12     Subloans made to the TIs by ICICI would finance:  (i) equipment for
pilot plants, laboratory and testing facilities; (ii) common R&D facilities
jointly owned and managed with industry; (iii) technology collaboration fees;
(iv) training and exchange programs with industry and foreign collaborators;
(v) upgrading of management systems, safety and marketing capabilities; and
(vi) other R&D expenditures such as special samples, materials and consultant
fees. The technology development programs to be financed under the project
would stand alone as viable investments. They must, however, also fit into an
overall institutional plan for the corresponding TI which demonstrates clear
institutional focus on activities which contribute to and are supported by its
industrial clientele. Based on the plan, measurable indicators such as revenue
generation, cost recovery ratio, productivity and number of licenses sold will
be monitored during project implementation.
4.13     The remaining 40% (approximately US$16 million) will be available for
additional qualifying TIs. These TIs would have to follow similar procedures



- 25 -
and satisfy the selection guidelines (paragraph 5.18) as the first six,
submitting an institutional plan with a technology development program that
would justify project financing. Instead of the Bank carrying out appraisal
with ICICI support, the TG in ICICI would appraise the institutional plans and
technology programs and submit them to a newly created technology board (TB)
for approval (para. 5.14). It is expected that the loan proceeds would finance
similar goods and services as for the first six TIs. While the component is
open to TIs generally, it is expected that most of the institutions will be RIs
in the CSIR network, sinca their policy framework is broadly already in place,
their resource growth has been constrained and their various governing bodies
have been restructured (see paragraph 3.14).
4.14     For the first time, the TIs would receive loans rather than grants.
This is intended to support Government efforts to promote greater financial
discipline within the TIs. In addition, cost accounting systems would be set
up by the end of 1990 for the first six TIs and one year after first
disbursement for TIs selected subsequently. Minimum performance parameters
-related to external revenue generation and productivity, inter alia, would be
closely monitored for each institute during project execution. Performance
parameters have been established for the first six TIs. The parameters for the
four CSIR TIs are included in Annex 13.
4.15     SDonsored R&D Promotion Fund.  The project would also stimulate
industrial demand for using the technology service institutions for R&D with a
Fund to be managed by ICICI. This pilot program involving US$15 million and an
equivalent amount of funds from the participating firms would support projects
carried out jointly by the firms and TIs or contracted entirely to the TIs.
Selected subprojects would be for R&D of products or processes and would have
clearly identifiable and feasible goals. Project resources would be passed on
to participating enterprises as conditional loans, with an initial nominal
interest and eventually repaid with market interest rates and/or royalties if
successful, and written off if the firm can demonstrate to the satisfaction of
ICICI that it was not successful.
4.16     TIs, including public and private (noncaptive) research institutes,
universities and other similar institutions with the capacity of achieving the
results would be eligible partners of, and selected by, the firms. Industrial
firms can receive conditional loans for up to 50% of the project costs of each
project and for all projects up to US$500,000.   In order to achieve the
objectives of the component, namely, to stimulate increased sponsored research
and collaboration between TIs and industry, the firm's sponsored R&D project
should represent incremental expenditures in or with TIs. Specifically, the
firm should increase, by at least the amount of the subloan, its overall level
of contract research with/in TIs generally beyond the average annual amount
that the firm spent for contract research in the previous two years. The above
provisions are all incorporated into Operating Guidelines for sponsored R&D
(Annex 14), which are acceptable to the Bank and have been formally approved by
ICICI.
4.17     During preparation, ICICI carried out a firm-level survey and
determined that the demand exists for financing of sponsored research. The
structure, terms and conditions set out above represent the best judgement of



- 26 -
ICICI and the Bank as to the parameters of this component. However, careful
monitoring during project implementation will be necessary.
4.18     Each subproject will be closely monitored.  For most projects, ICICI
intends to identify at the appraisal stage a technical advisor who will serve
as a resource person for a particular subproject. In addition, adequate review
procedures including joint review meetings with industrial sponsors and TIs
would be adopted for monitoring subprojects. With these provisions as well as
the determination of ICICI to define narrowly achievable results in subloan
agreements for each R&D subproject, a success ratio of greater than 80% is
expected.
4.19     Technical Assistance.  A number of TI subprojects include related
technical assistance. In addition, grant support is expected to be provided by
the Government of Japan for studies and technical assistance which have
potentially broad institutional and policy impact. US$2 million would finance
technical assistance for institutional development of CSIR, ICICI and BIS and
support for a series of studies on the contribution to ITD of various policies
and institutions. For CSIR, the project would support (a) improvement of the
laboratory safety system for the CSIR network; (b) technical assistance to
improve CSIR capacity to examine client R&D needs and market its activities;
and (c) upgrading the National Chemical Laboratory's management information and
planning system to serve as a model for other RIs. ICICI would receive
exposure to, and technical assistance from, comparable programs overseas.
Technical assistance for BIS would be primarily for helping exporters relate
dr'mestic standards to international ones. The studies on ITD will analyze key
areas and policies of ITD in an attempt to identify their contributions to
industrial growth and ways of bolstering their usefulness. Terms of reference,
procedures and contractual conditions for all studies and technical assistance
would be satisfactory to the Bank and would be incorporated in an agreement
governing the use of the funds from the Government of Japan. The content and
estimated costs of the various components of technical assistance are given in
Annex 8.
C. Technical Development Fund
4.20     This component would support increased and more rapid import of
various forms of technology with US$100 million equivalent of loan proceeds.
This would help support a doubling in the size of the fund from its present
level of $150 million. Support would be provided solely for imports required
for technology upgrading which are approved under the TDF scheme, a "fast-
track" system whereby all Government clearances are carried out quickly on a
one stop basis. The component would cover the equivalent of 33% of estimated
total TDF requirements during the September 1989-March 1992 period. About one
half of the imports are expected in the form of "disembodied" technology-
-designs, drawings, know-how, licences and technical assistance--and the other
half "embodied" technology, i.e., capital goods for upgrading and
modernization.
4.21     The technology must be for upgrading or product diversification
involving the introduction of new and more sophisticated products. Technology
imports of all firms, whether MRTP, FERA or small-scale industry, would be
eligible for project financing, provided of course that the technology



- 27 -
originated from an eligible countr;.  The great majority of the firms are
expected, however, following past experience to be medium or large-scale.
After negotiating with the foreign supplier, the firm would submit an
application with pertinent materials to the MOI which chairs the committee
reviewing TDF applications. (The composition of the TDF Committee along with
the organization of the MOI are presented in Annex 7.) Since representatives
of the relevant agencies sit on the committee, once approval is given, the
import, technology license or technical assistance is approved in all respects,
as is the foreign exchange allocation. The review is meant to guard against
spurious imports and inflated prices and to verify that the purpose is
technology modernization and diversification. The entrepreneurs' commercial
bank can then issue a letter of credit or authorize payment and notify RBI
accordingly.
4.22     The above procedures are judged to be satisfactory and would be
followed under the loan.
Proiect Costs and Financing
4.23     Summary project costs are presented in Table 4.2.
TABLE 4.2: PROJECT COSTS
Comoonent        Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
-      (Rs   ilion) -------  ------(US$ Million)------
Technology Venture Financing   1,050   1,500  2,550  70  100    170
Technology Support Services    735    615  1,350  49      41    90
(i) Technology Institutions/  405    495    825  27     33    60
Studies
(ii) R&D Promotion Fund  330    120    450      22        8     30
Technical Development Fund  -    2,250  2,250     -      150    150
Total Estimated Costs    1.785   4.365  6i150  119   291    410
The financial requirements for technology venture financing and support
services presented in Table 4.2 are based on estimates of demand combined with
the appraisal mission's judgments about the absorptive capacity of the
institutions concerned. In all cases, the number of subprojects and
institutions to be financed would be adjusted to reflect the funds available.
Consequently, physical and price contingencies have not been calculated. The
TDF component estimate is based on a conservative estimate of the projected
increased demand for such imports under the TDF.



- 28 -
4.24     The financing plan for the project is presented in Table 4.3 by
component. For the technology venture financing, it is estimated that the
industrial venture promoters will finance about 20% of the investments on
average. The US$90 million raised by the VCFs is expected to come in large
part from the parent financial institutions, but also from private sector
investors as well as from international institutions such as the IFC, the Asian
Development Bank and the Commonwealth Development Corporation. The US$2.5
million of cofinancing for the technical assistance elements of the first two
components is expected to be approved in the form of a grant by the Government
of Japan. GOI will finance the balance of incremental foreign exchange,
estimated at $50 million, for the TDF component. Industry would finance one
half of the sponsored R&D Promotion Fund, while the participating TIs would
finance the balance of their respective investments in the TI component from
internally generated and budgetary resources.
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
Co-
Bank   IDA financing la GOI  DFIs lb Industry  TIs   Total
Technology venture  45            0.5            90   34.5            170
financing
Technology support          55     2                    15    18    90
services
Technical development    100              50                          150
fund
Total financing  145    55    2.5    50    90   49.5    18    410
/a Expected to be a grant from the Government of Japan.
lb Includes resources raised from corporations, individuals and other fund investors.
The Loan and Credit
4.25     The Bank loan of US$145 million would be made to GOI at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. Repayments of the US$10C million for the TDF
would be made over 20 years with 5 years of grace.  The US$45 million for
venture financing would have a repayment period of 16 years with 7 years of
grace. The modified repayment schedule for this component reflects the
earnings profile of the VCFs which are expected to begin to earn substantial
returns only from around the seventh year (para. 4.6). The US$55 million
credit for technology support services would be made to the GOI on standard IDA
terms. IDA funds are being provided for this component because it would
finance investment in basic human and science and technology infrastructure.



- 29 -
4.26     The legal arrangements would involve loan and credit agreements
between the Bank and GOI. Project agreements would be signed with ICICI (with
TDICI) and IDBI. The ICICI project agreement includes the various provisions
related to the technology services component as well as VC while the IDBI
agreement covers the VC arrangements for the three other institutions. In
addition, to define tIe basis upon which funds would be relent for VC, a
subsidiary loan agreement would be entered into between GOI and IDBI; a
subsidiary Loan Agreement would be entered into by GOI with ICICI to provide
the basis for relending of VC as well as for managing on behalf of Government
the technology services component. IDBI's role is to channel and advance funds
as necessary to state-level institutions, APIDC and GIIC, with whom it is
closely tied and would sign financial agreements, and to channel Bank resources
to Canara Bank. The signing of the subsidiary and financial agreements and a
financial agreement with Canara Bank would be conditions of effectiveness,
while the signing by IDBI of financial agreements with APIDC and GIIC would be
conditions of their respective disbursements.
Relending Terms and Conditions
4.27     The US$45 million for venture capital would be relent in rupees by GOI
to the 4 parent institutions (see para. 4.5) at 12% p.a. interest with
repayment over 16 years including a grace period of 7 years. This rate is in
line with the cost of alternative sources of rupee funds to the financial
institutions. The Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks as it would be unreasonable to burden the parent companies with
additional variability given the risks already associated with the VC
investments. Interest during the grace period on the subsidiary loans would be
capitalized since the income from dividends, interest and royalties can be
expected to be low in the initial years and inadequate to cover interest
payments to the Government. The terms and conditions under which the funds
would be invested in ventures are detailed in para. 4.6.
4.28     GOI would establish a revolving fund for the US$55 million equivalent
IDA credit for technology services and would transfer the funds in rupees to
ICICI, which would manage them on behalf of the Government. ICICI would lend
to TIs about US$40 million equivalent interest-free, but with a 1% service
charge and a commitment fee of 0.25% p.a. to be repaid over 15 years including
4 years of grace. The interest and commitment charges would be ICICI's
management fee. The Government would also bear the foreign exchange risk. For
most of the TIs this would be the first time that they will be receiving a loan
rather than a grant, which is intended to support government policy to instill
financial discipline in the TIs. Market rates of interest would be
unrealistically ambitious at this stage in the development of the TIs. The TIs
are, in any case, basic human and science or technology infrastructure, in
which softer lending terms are justified.
4.29     For sponsored R&D projects, ICICI would lend, on behalf of the
Government, the remaining US$15 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit to
firms for a maximum of twelve years with a grace period corresponding to the
R&D subproject period. The interest rate would be 6% p.a. during the grace
period. From the date of expected subproject completion (i.e., the grace
period), the firm would be required to pay 14% p.a. and/or royalty payments;
however, if the firm demonstrates to the satisfaction of ICICI that the project



- 30 -
is unsuccessful then the subloan may be written off. ICICI would receive as a
management fee 158 of royalty charges and 2% p.a. of the outstanding loan
amount from the interest payments. These conditions are intended to provide
some assurance and incentive to the firms that sponsoring R&D by or with TIs
can be successful. The vast majority of the subloan resources would be used
for TI-related expenditures.
4.30     Table 4.4 below presents the terms and conditions under which funds
are passed on to each recipient for the techn.ology venture financing and
services components.  The last column also presents the fee structure of
managing institutions for the two components. Relending arrangements are not
applicable for the TDF, since it is a foreign exchange facility, nor for the
US$2.5 million of technical assistance (paras. 4.9 and 4.19), which is passed
on as a grant.
Table 4.4 LENDING AND ON-LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Bank      Government to    FIs         VCF
to         Financial       to          to       VCM manage-
Component     Government   institutions    VCF         Venture       ment fees
(FI)                                  (paid
from VCF)
I
Venture    Standard Bank   12% in ru-    Invest-  Equity,           Generally
financing  interest, 16    pees, 16        ment     quasi-equity,  1-2% ef
years, 7        years, 7                 quasi-debt,    VCF plus a
years grace     years grace              loans, (terms  share in VCF
interest                and condi-      profits
capitalized             tions accord-
ing to market
and needs)
II
Technology      IDA                                 Benefici        ICICI Manage-
services        to                                  aries (paid    ment fees
Government                             to revolv-      (paid by bene-
ing fund)      ficiaries)
Technology Standard IDA                             1% p.a.,        Entire
institutes                                          service fee    Commitment
0.25% p.a.     and service
commitment     fee.
charge,
15 yrs, 4 yrs
grace
Sponsored  Standard IDA                             6% p.a. during 2% from
R&D Fund                                            grace period,  interest
an/ p.a.       payments and
and/or         15% of roy-
royalties      alties.
thereafter
Maximum re-
payment 12 yrs.
If demon-
strated
unsuccess-
ful, loan
will be
written off.



- 31 -
4.31     Since venture capital financing and technology lending is new to
India, the Bank would review and approve initially nearly 30 investments and
subloans. For VC investments, prior approval by the Bank would be required
for the first five investments by each VCM as well as for those ventures whose
total financing exceeds $900,000 for APIDC, $1 million for GIIC and Canfin and
$1.5 millton for TDICI. In all, the Bank would approve about 12% of the total
number of subprojects representing approximately 20% of the amount invested.
In addition, during supervision missions, Bank staff would review and comment
on additional projects before they are approved. For sponsored R&D, the first
five subloans would require prior Bank approval as would the first two TIs to
be appraised by ICICI and all subloans exceeding US$4 million equivalent.
Remaining investments and subloans would be approved by the respective
institutions according to procedures already agreed.
Procurement
4.32     Under the technology venture financing component, it is expected that
the average investment (including subloan) would be relatively small (about
US$ 400,000 equivalent) and would finance specialized hardware and software
items available from a limited number of suppliers (at times only one) in
addition to working capital and other needs of new technology oriented
ventures. Since each of the approved operating guidelines of the VCFs limits
investment in any one firm to 10% of the VCF, procurement packages beyond
$1.6 million for three of the funds and $4 million for the fourth would not be
possible. Furthermore, since the VCMs will be "hands on" investors and
supervising each investment closely in the companies utilizing the loan
proceeds, they can be expected to ensure that cost-minimizing procedures are
adopted for procurement of goods and services. Commercial practices,
therefore, are acceptable for this component.
4.33     For the TI portion of the technology financing component, since most
of the equipment would be highly technical with known and a limited number of
suppliers, limited international bidding (LIB) procedures according to Bank
Procurement Guidelines would be used for equipment packages exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent estimated to total about US$10 million equivalent.
ICICI and the Bank would agree on standard procurement documents and
procedures for LIB.  The first 5 packages and any exceeding US$500,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank. ICICI would review
all LIB packages on behalf of the Bank. For items below US$200,000 and for
the sponsored R&D subcomponent, procurement would be done according to the
ICICI's internal procedures which have been used in a number of previous Bank
projects and are acceptable to the Bank. ICICI requires all of its borrowers
to solicit three competitive and responsive quotations for all procurement.
4.34     For the TDF, more than half of the imports including all of the
"software"--technology licences, designs, etc.--and some of the capital goods
are expected to be proprietary and unique. The remaining capital goods are
expected to be highly specialized with limited sources and it can be expected
that the purchasing companies will have determined the optimum technology for
them, based on consideration of price, quality, size, reliability, maintenance
and follow-up assistance by the provider. The average import is not expected
to exceed US$500,000, while the existing maximum for one industrial unit for



- 32 -
all imports in any year is US$3 million equivalent.  Future imports under the
scheme are expected to follow a similar pattern. Historically, technology
purchases under the TDF have come from many Bank member countries and the
practices of Indian technology importers have tended to be highly price
conscious. Consequently, commercial procedures would be acceptable under this
component.
4.35     Employment of consultants by the managers of VCFs, TIs, CSIR and
ICICI would all be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency." Appointment of all consultants and their terms of reference would be
subject to the prior approval of the Bank.
Disbursement
4.36     Under the technology venture financing component, the Bank loan would
be disbursed for 100* of the investments made by the VCFs up to one third of
total investments in each phase of implementation. The VCFs would be financed
in three phases, with the Bank financing one third in each phase against VCF
investment commitments. For the TI subcomponent and the sponsored R&D Fund,
the IDA credit would be disbursed for 100% of subloan amounts. For the TDF
component, the Bank loan would be disbursed for 33% of actual foreign exchange
payments for all eligible technology imports under TDF scheme. For the
technical assistance and studies, 100% of costs are expected to be financed by
the Government of Japan.
4.37     There is no precedent upon which to base the expected disbursement
profile because of the innovative character of the project. Based on
conservative projections taking into account the profile of projects carried
out by some of the institutions involved, it is expected that all of the funds
would be committed in three years and disbursed in six years. A projected
disbursement schedule is included in the Loan, Credit and Project Summary.
The closing date would be December 31, 1995.
4.38     A special account (SA) for the project would be established in US
dollars by GOI in RBI for US$20 million equivalent which corresponds to four
months estimated disbursements of the project. Assurances have been provided
by the Government that funds would be transferred promptly from the SA to
project recipients upon GOI receipt of appropriate documentation and requests
from beneficiary institutions. In addition, replenishments of the SA would be
requested quarterly or whenever the SA reaches 50% of the initial deposit.
4.39     Disbursements on the TI subcomponent for subloans valued more than
US$4 million equivalent and on TDF imports exceeding US$500,000 would be made
against full documentation. Disbursements on the VC component for investments
by (a) ICICI valued more than US$1.5 million equivalent; (b) CanBank and GIIC
valued more than US$1 million equivalent; and (c) APIDC valued more than $0.9
million equivalent would also be made on the basis of full documentation.
Disbursements under the sponsored R&D Promotion Fund along with remaining TDF,
VC and TI expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs). Since supporting documentation for TDF imports are not currently
centralized, assurances were obtained that, by March 31, 1990 GOI will
establish a mechanism for centralizing documentation to ensure prompt flow of



- 33 -
such documentation and consequently, disbursements from the Bank. For the
remaining components, documentation would be maintained and withdrawal
applications prepared by the respective managing institutions, ICICI and the
four VCMs. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be subject to review by
Bank supervision missions and to in annual audit by auditors acceptable to the
Bank, such audit to be submitced within four months after the close of each
financial year.
ReDorting and Audits
4.40     Progress reports would be submitted semiannually for each component.
For the venture financing components, each of the four participating
institutions would submit, in addition to a financial summary of their
operations, detailed summaries of each new investee in the previous six-month
period. The latter summaries would include, inter alia, description of
prospects, risks, and reasons for choice of financial instruments. Each
report would also include brief status reports on previous investments as well
as the status of the technical assistance contracts and the staff development
programs. ICICI would submit status reports for each TI receiving a subloan,
describing progress on their respective projects and on the institutional
targets which have been agreed upon. In addition, ICICI would provide a
summary report of all contracts for technical assistance and studies as well
as subloans to industry for R&D. CSIR would submit directly to the Bank
reports on progress on its program for marketing and laboratory safety. For
the TDF, MOI would be responsible for submitting the semiannual reports on
technology import approvals and rejections, while the RBI would report on
actual imports. Both reports would segregate TDF from other imports,
including technology collaboration agreements and would categorize them by
type and by cWintry of origin.
4.41     Audited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank by the
VCMs for the VCFs and the managing companies. These audits would be prepared
in accordance with the Bank's standard reporting requirements by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Independent audits of each TI by auditors
acceptable to the Bank would be submitted within six months of the close of
the fiscal year. Audits for all SOEs would be submitted by the respective
institutions within four months of the close of the fiscal year. Upon
completing the project, each VCM and MOI's TDF committee would submit to ICICI
an operational audit of their respective activities during the project. On
the basis of these reports and ICICI's operational audit on the technology
service component, ICICI would prepare an overall project audit report within
four months after the closing date, December 31, 1995.



- 34 -
V. PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS, INVESTMENT CRITERIA, BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1      The three components, as described in the previous chapter, involve
distinct institutions.  The only overlap is ICICI which will manage the
technical support services component and also invest Bank resources in VCFs to
be managed by its affiliate TDICI under the venture financing component. In
addition to ICICI, this chapter presents briefly the four venture financing
institutions and each of the six technology institutes which have been
appraised. Other participating institutions include CSIR detailed in
Chapter 3 (paras. 3.12-3.14) and the four CSIR institutes presented in greater
detail in Annex 13. The organization of MOI and the composition of the TDF
committee are included in Annex 7. Supplemental information on the various
institutions is available in the project file.
A. Technology Venture Financing
5.2      The first of the four financial institutions selected jointly by the
Government and the Bank is the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India, Ltd. (ICICI), a well-run and profitable DFI which has had a long
relationship with the Bank. The second is Caniara Bank, a large commercial
bank noted for its profitability and readiness to innovate. The State
Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs), of Andhra Pradesh (APIDC) and
Gujarat (GIIC), selected in view of their past records, and the
research/technology infrastructure in their respective states, are included in
the project with a view to promote some technology development on a regional
basis.
5.3      The institutional arrangements for each VC scheme involve the
creation of one or more VCFs and a managing entity, VCM. Each VCF would be
established by a Deed of Trust and invested according to its Operating
Guidelines. The VCMs (either specialized affiliates such as TDICI, APIDC
Venture Capital, Ltd., and GIIC's intended subsidiary, or the existing unit in
CanFin and GIIC) will enter into a contract agreement with the VCFs and
operate under separate but related operating guidelines. Drafts of these
documents have been reviewed for the four VC schemes and in final form will be
established and maintained satisfactory to the Bank. Moreover, assurances
have been provided that VCMs will be adequately staffed and operate
autonomously on a commercial basis.
Technology Development and Iniormation Company of India. Ltd. (TDICI)
5.4      TDICI was created by ICICI with UTI in August 1988 and based in
Bangalore (India's electronics and software center), with the mission of
'accelerating the technology development process in India through the
provision of capital, financial and other support services." Its initial
objective is to provide venture capital to commercial, market-oriented
technology ventures; it will provide at a later stage technology information
and consultancy services to its clients. TDICI would manage a series of VCFs
to be subscribed by financial institutions and corporate and private
investors. Its first VCF of Rs 200 million (US$13 million), created in March
1989 under a new tax-exempt VC scheme of UTI and subscribed equally by ICICI



- 35 -
and UTI, has been largely committed to some 30 ventures initially financed
with ICICI resources. TDICI has a pipeline of about 20 projects in the final
stages of processing, with total investment requirements of Rs 135 million
(US$9 million). In addition, it has a portfolio of some 45 propusals for an
estimated Rs 390 million (US$26 million). To finance those projects, ICICI
intends to float in September-October 1989 a second VCF of Rs 300 million
(US$20 million), of which a high percentage would be reserved for corporate
and individual investors, and a third VCF of Rs 600 million in 1990. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
and other international agencies (including IFC) have been approached for, and
expressed interest in, subscribing to these funds. TDICI's strong human
resources (nine full-time experienced professionals in Bangalore, and four
part-time professionals in ICICI-Bombay) are adequate to administer the
resources to be invested by TDICI during the next 3 years. Projected
disbursements and returns on the second and third VCFs of TDICI are provided
in Annex 9.
Canara Bank (CanBank) and CanBank Financial Services. Ltd. (Canfin)
5.5      The parent institution, Canara Bank, is currently the third largest
commercial bank in India, with a staff of about 49,000, some 2,000 branches,
and total assets of about Rs 120 billion (US$8 billion). Its net profits in
1987/88 represented an 18% return on equity (its accouuts are s=mmarized in
Annex 10). CanBank has satisfactorily participated in two Bank projects for
Export Development (Loans 2629-IN and 3-58-IN). CanBank Financial Services,
Ltd. (Canfin), a wholly-owned profitable subsidiary established in July 1987,
would manage VCF of Rs 250 million (US$16.6 million), through its Industrial
Consultancy Division, well staffed with 12 experienced engineers and
investment bankers. It already has a pipeline of eight projects representing
total investments of Rs 172.5 million (US$11.5 million). Canfin has also
approached CDC for subscribing to its VCF. Projected operations of Canfin's
VCF are attached to Annex 10.
Andhra Pradesh Industrial DeveloRment Corioration (APIDC)
5.6      APIDC, an autonomous corporation created in 1960 to promote and
finance in its state, has been profitable. Equity investments, which were its
predominant activity until 1980, generate on average one third of its income.
The yield on its investment portfolio, built up primarily for industrial
promotion purposes rather than profit maximization, has averaged about 7% in
recent years, most of it from capital gains. Its rich experience in investing
in medium-scale industrial projects, coupled with Andhra Pradesh's well-
developed technology infrastructure, constitute a sound basis for APIDC's
decision to create a VCF for technology-innovative projects. APIDC Venture
Capital, Ltd., a subsidiary, was created in April 1989 to manage VCFs, the
first one of which would total Rs 135 million (US$9 million). It has a
preliminary pipeline of eight projects totalling Rs 100 million
(US$ 6.7 million). APIDC has approached Indian corporations, ADB and CDC for
subscribing to its VCF. Fin-4icial projections tor APIDC's VCF, along with a
summary of APIDC's past performance and accounts, are attached to Annex 11.



- 36 -
Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation (GIIC)
5.7      GIIC, created in 1968, has been another successful and profitable
SIDC. The bulk of its financial activities has been in lending. Its equity
investments, however, increased recently, and it has an equity portfolio in
some 70 enterprises. As shown in Annex 12, the return on its investment
portfolio averaged 10.8Z over the past four years (33Z in 1986/87). The
performance record of GIIC and its efficient and businesslike management
provide a sound basis for the creation by GIIC of a VCF of Rs 240 million
(US$16 million) to finance technology-innovative projects in its traditional
areas of investment (chemicals, pharmaceuticals) and in electronics and
engineering. To ensure greater automony of the manager, GIIC now intends to
establish a VCM subsidiary. Other VCF investors approached by GIIC include a
number of Gujarat corporations and the CDC.
Investment Guidelines
5.8      The CCI Venture Capital Guidelines (see para. 2.24 and Annex 3) set
broad guidelines within which VCFs must operate. They stipulate, in
particular, that at least 75% of their funds should be invested through
venture capital instruments in technologically innovative, growth oriented
firms. In addition, each participating VCF-maraging entity has prepared its
own Operating Guidelines, which stipulate its internal policies on how to
invest and operate. These comprehensive Guidelines (available in the Project
File) cover the areas of: VCF objectives; nature/area of investment;
investment criteria (size, targeted return, decision and criteria standards,
investment instruments, divestment, monitoring); financial and operating
management (portfolio diversification, portfolio valuation, borrowing limits,
distribution of profits, management of temporary/liquid resources); and
reporting and involvement in investee's management.
5.9      The VCFs' Operating Guidelines establish in particular that:
(a) the primary target groups for investment would be private
industrial firms with above average Value Added in sectors where
India has or will have a comiparative advantage and/or export
potential. Investments would avoid heavily protected industries
and those subject to stringent price controls;
(b) the key factors to be considered in evaluating the investee
companies would be: (i) the quality and experience of their
managers; (ii) the long-term growth prospects of demand and
market; (iii) the innovativeness of the product and its potential
to provide a competitive edge; and (iv) the financial needs of the
investee for development of new products and/or growth;
(c) investments will be made with a view to build up a VCF portfolio
with an internal rate of return of at least 20% p.a.; and
(d) investment portfolios would be diversified so that no more than
10X of the VCF is committed to a single company and its
affiliates, and with limits on the percentage to be invested in



- 37 -
one industry. Moreover, the VCF would not take more than 49Z of
the total voting stock of each investee company.
These guidelines would help ensure adequate selection and evaluation of the
investee companies, and sound management of the portfolio. Assurances have
been provided that the participating VCFs will follow Operating Guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.10     The institutions involved, with Bank assistance, during the past one
and one-half years have carefully developed the various institutional and
operating arrangements, surveyed the demand and selected appropriate staff to
run their venture capital operation. Further institutional development
assistance of the Bank will involve prior review of a significant portion of
investments (para. 4.31), close supervision of the operations and assisting in
arranging for training or internship with VCCs abroad (para. 4.9).
B. Technology Services Component
5.11     As outlined in Chapter 4, this component would involve 12-15 TIs and
perhaps 60 firms collaborating in R&D with the TIs and universities. To
manage this array of institutions carrying out programs never before attempted
in India requires the leadership of an institution with a proven managerial
record, Lechnical and financial capabilities and knowledge of Bank operations.
ICICI was the logical choice and already has contributed significantly to the
development of the component. For the TI subcomponent, the first 6
institutions were selected after visiting 15 and receiving proposals from
most. While each is very different in respect of their areas of focus and the
mix of activities, they all have a clear vision of their role and the
capability, including human resources, to achieve the objectives. To varying
degrees and in different ways in each of them, initial steps have been taken
before Bank involvement to increase their focus on industrial service and
needs. In the four CSIR institutes, the process was facilitated by the policy
changes adopted in February 1988 (para. 3.14). The institutions are described
briefly below along with an outline of the kinds of programs to be financed.
An account of each institution, subproject and performance indicators are
included in Annex 13, with more detail available in the project file.
ICICI
5.12     Since its establishment in 1955, ICICI has developed into one of the
country's major financial institutions and the main provider of foreign
currency term loans to Indian firms. It offers a wide range of financial
services and in recent years has diversified into areas such as merchant
banking, leasing, hire purchase, venture capital and credit-rating services.
In addition to its operational activities, ICICI plays an important
development role. It advises the Government on industrial issues, carries out
sector studies and develops new ideas and methods of improving the financial
markets. ICICI is a profitable, well-managed and arofessional institution.
As of March 31, 1988, total assets had reached Rs 36 billion, while equity was
Rs 3.2 billion and net profits were Rs 770 million. The Bank has made 16
previous loans to ICICI, including a US$ 105 million facility under the



* 38 -
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project and US$162 million for on-
lending under the recently approved Export Development Project.
5.13     As one of its efforts to diversify and support industrial
development, ICICI has been in the forefront of promoting ITD through various
financial and advisory mechanisms.  The institution has long been recognized
for the quality of its technical appraisals and personnel. In 1985, ICICI
became the executing agency for the innovative USAID-sponsored Program for the
Advancement of Commercial Technology (PACT). PACT finances joint ventures
between Indian and US firms for the development of innovative technologies
with significant commercial potential. The US$10 million PACT project has
been considered thus far successful and ICICI's role exemplary. Based on the
PACT experience, some experimentation with venture capital and the far-
sightedness of its leadership, ICICI embarked upon a substantial effort to
develop the capability to promote and finance technology development in Indian
industry.  Initially, ICICI intended to use TDICI as the vehicle for all of
its ITD activities, including technical consulting to industry, an information
service on technologies available in India and abroad, commercialization of
technologies from RIs and PACT. It subsequently became apparent that the
cultures required for carrying out many of these activities was fundamentally
different from that of VC and that the TDICI should initially concentrate on
VC.  ICICI then decided to set up a technology group (TG) within ICICI to
incorporate activities already initiated and to begin building its expertise,
using the Bank's technology project as a vehicle.   Over the long term, ICICI
aims to develop the TC's capability to advise firms where to go in India and
abroad for technology, to finance R&D in and by industry and to serve as a
conduit of new ventures and ideas ripe for commercialization to ICICI's
venture capital arm, the TDICI. Some of the activities will be shifted
gradually to TDICI, as it becomes appropriate.
5.14     The TG would be the managing arm of the Technology Support Services
Component of the project. It would consist of ICICI staff with technical
background and banking experience. The TC's small staff of at least five
full-time professionals would be supplemented by specialist consultants and
guided by a Technology Board (TB). The latter would be presided over by
ICICI's Chairman and composed of four experienced techno-industrialists who
are respected in the technical/scientific as well as industrial community and
with sufficient time to provide the necessary advice. The TB would approve
TIs to be financed under the project and provide guidance to the TG on
projects to be financed for sponsored R&D. ICICI's past performance in
virtually every new activity in which it has embarked and the seriousness with
which it is gearing up to technology development leadership provides
sufficient assurance that it will perform commendably as manager of the
technology support services component. ICICI has prepared draft operating
guidelines for the component and organization and Management guidelines for
the TG and TB and expects to nominate the members of the TB shortly.
Assurances have been provided that ICICI will maintain the above two
guideli'es satisfactory to the Bank. These will provide for, inter alia,
appropriate and adequate staffing, a staff development program, and procedures
for appraisal and supervision of TI and sponsored research subprojects.



- 39 -
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
5.15     BIS is the primary agency in India with a mandate to develop and set
standards, test and calibrate, certify products as well as promote quality in
industry. It has 2360 staff of which 650 are professionals in science,
agriculture and engineering.  The goal of BIS's institutional plan as well as
the project is to gradually shift its primary attention from formulating new
standards and testing quality of particular products to one of training and
leadership with industrial groups and firms for adopting standards and quality
assurance methods. The detailed project description is well prepared and
includes, inter alia: (a) training its own and industrial firms' staff in
quality control and registering at least 150 Indian companies as complying
with the international quality assurance (ISQ 9000) standards, (b) providing
service to exporters on foreign standards, (c) upgrading its laboratories so
that their certification will be accepted internationally, (d) streamlining
the standards development process, and (e) increasing its resources devoted to
direct industry-related programs and maintaining at least its prtsent cost
recovery ratio of 85% (of recurrent costs), which is high compared with
standard organizations in most industrialized countries.
The CSIR Institupes
5.16     The Bank has appraised four CSIR institutes:  the National
Metallurgical Laboratory (NML) in Jamshedpur, Bihar, The National Chemical
Laboratory (NCL) in Pune, the Central Mining Research Station (CMRS) in
Dhanbad, Bihar, and the Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI) in Madras.
The institutes were founded in the early 1950s and have a substantial human
resource base and effective leadership. NML has already made substantial
progress in transforming a relatively unproductive institution into one which
provides useful services to, and generates increasing revenues from industry.
The project will provide support for a system to detect potential failure in
large scale industrial systems, which would be financed in part by industrial
firms. NCL is an institute noted for world class basic research as well as
for development of a number of new technologies. Progress has been made in
transferring technology to industry, particularly in polymers and catalysis
with the assistance of a technology management group responsible for
licensing, patents, and maintaining contacts with industry. Project support
will help NCL develop and upscale technologies which are more economic and
usable by industry. CMRS research and development has focused on mining
methods, mining environment and health, mining engineering and explosion
safety. Under this project, CMRS will develop an international standard
flameproof and testing facility to increase the quality of services to its
mining clients. CLRI, like NCL, has a high international scientific
reputation, but it has not focused adequately on service to leather product
enterprises. The various investments to be supported by the project--pilot
training facilities, a common facilities center, a quality control and
environmental program--are expected, along with the other measures being
adopted by CLRI, to reorient the institute to applied and industry activities.



- 40 -
Shriram Institute for Industrial Research (SIIR)
5.17     SIIR was formed in 1947 as an independent, nonprofit, self-financing
private contract research organization. It has a staff of 250, including 60
scientists and engineers, and an annual budget of Rs 20 million. Since SIIR
is completely self-financing, it follows a strategy that anticipates the
demand of industry and prepares the institute for maintaining a competitive
edge in the early stages of the technology cycle in selected targeted areas
identified in extensive market studies. Following this strategy, SIIR
initially started with but virtually phased out of textile and fiber research.
It currently concentrates on polymers, analytical chemistry, environmental
science, toxicology and recently radiation technology and silk research. The
proposed project would provide badly needed investment resources for (a)
strengthening SIIR's current R&D programs in materials, analytical chemistry,
environmental protection and toxicology; (b) improving laboratory safety and
utilities; and (c) initiating new R&D programs in standard reference materials
and electronic grade chemicals.
Selection Guidelines
5.18     Before ICICI first disburses to respective TIs already appraised,
each TI will be expected to demonstrate to ICICI that it is meeting
substantially its institutional goals for 1989/90. Selection and appraisal of
new TI proposals by ICICI will be based on the same general selection
guidelines used for the first six TIs and include analysis and judgments in
the following broad areas:
(a) An institutional plan that demonstrates the TI's intention and
specific steps to serve industry more effectively. The
institutional plan would be evaluated in terms of: (i) priority
and resource allocation of technology application to industry vis-
a-vis general research; (ii) revenue generation experience and
appropriate, realistic targets for the following three years; and
(iii) new project and program initiatives reflecting the needs of
industry;
(b) Technical capability. Demonstration that the TI has the technical
capability to perform its role and provide the services outlined
in its plan. An evaluation would be made of the quality of human
resources, equipment installed, maintenance and safety standards
as well as the working environment and utilization of the
facilities;
(c) Management. TI management should have a track record of effective
leadership and of implementing effective changes in the TI. It
should also have the capability of obtaining the necessary support
from the staff of the institutes, industry and Government for
carrying out the institutional plan.



- 41 -
(d)  Financial Appraisal.  The TI would need to demonstrate that
(i) the loan will be repaid by unt'.ed revenue generated by the TI;
(ii) revenue generation from services is already at acceptable
levels or is increasing; and (iii) the capability of instituting a
cost-accounting system.
The first two subloans to be appraised by ICICI for a new TI would be subject
to Bank approval as would others above US$4 million equivalent. ICICI's TB
would approve all TI subloans, including those not subject to prior review by
the Bank.
C. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
5.19     Overall, the project would support an integrated and comprehensive
approach to developing technology in Indian industry. It would expand the
options of entrepreneurs and firms for obtaining and developing technology.
It would also bolster the Government's policies of promoting increased
industrial competition, greater operness to technology import, a larger role
for industry firms and the private sector in R&D and technology selection and
decreased control and financing of all aspects of ITD. Institutionally, India
may begin to achieve what few countries have been able to promote effectively,
namely collaboration between industrial firms, the technology infrastructure,
the financial sector and the Government. Although many institutions will
contribute to such an achievement, ICICI's leadership role is pivotal here.
With the strengthening of ICICI's capability to support technology
development, the achievement of such collaboration is even more likely. The
ultimate effect of the proposed project would then be a more productive ard
efficient industrial sector producing higher quality products.
5.20     The proposed project would help build venture capital in India.  With
assistance from the Bank over the past one and one-half years, four venture
capital schemes have now been formulated and organized. Project preparation
has also made a contribution to the Government's approach to venture capital.
The experience during the project will provide a basis for further development
of VC in India. The VC entities are expected to support more than 400 well-
selected small growth-oriented companies largely in emerging high-tech
sectors. These companies would probably develop or grow much more slowly, if
venture capital were not promoted.
5.21     The project would result in increased activity by the technology
infrastructure in support of industrial needs and services. The TIs supported
by the project would have a much greater capacity than at present to provide
services to industry. Those already appraised have developed during the past
18 months institutional programs which can achieve the desired industrial
collaboration. At the same time, industry can be expected to demand increased
and better service from TIs as a result of the experience under the sponsored
R&D promotion fund. With the development of technology management cells in
CSIR laboratories and the Government's policy of limiting budgetary support to
TIs, the transformation process followed by TIs supported by the proposed



- 42 -
project can be expected to be emulated by others. Hundreds of firms are
expected to benefit from the investments in the TIs, particularly in BIS, CLRI
and NML, which have a potentially large client base.
5.22     The project is also expected to result in easier access of firms to
foreign technology. Support to the TDF is expected to benefit between 600 and
800 firms and provide an impetus to further liberalize the technology import
regime. More liberal technology imports would also stimulate the domastic
technology infrastructure to be more efficient and to help absorb and
complement, rather than duplicate, foreign technology.
Environme-at and Safety
5.23     The project would fund environmental protection activities in two
RIs--CLRI and SIIR--as well as support laboratory and industrial safety
through a number of interventions. CLRI's activity relates to pollution
resulting from tannery effluents (chromium), while the environment constitutes
an area of specialization for SIIR and for which approximately US$1 million of
the Bank loan will be provided. The flameproof and safety testing facility to
be built at CMRI is expected to be a major contributor to industrial safety,
particularly in, but not limited to, coal mines. MIRS's program for component
integrity evaluation (which, inter alia, would attempt to, detect potential
failures in major industrial plants, including chemical and power) could help
prevent serious environmental disasters. With respect to laboratory safety,
which is frequently deficient, CSIR has reconstituted its overall safety
oversight committee, in part at the Bank's urging, and intends to issue
guidelines for its laboratories. As a condition of disbursement for each RI
under the project, one senior technical person will have been designated as
safety officer for the RI and a safety protocol will have been issued.
Progress reports will also include a section on improvements in laboratory
safety. The technical assistance program for CSIR includes a major effort to
develop a safety program for all CSIR laboratories.
Risks
5.24     An innovative project like this one is inherently risky with respect
to its implementation and repayment by the final beneficiaries. It is
complicated involving three major components, each involving a number of
institutions and one with several subcomponents. Furthermure, this is the
first experience of this kind in India or in the Bank. The project, however,
has been structured so that it can work and have a substantial impact.
Nevertheless, substantial supervision by the Bank will be required. For
technology support services, an effective system for managing the component is
being developed by ICICI. Its role, which is in line with ICICI's
institutional plan to provide a range of services to its industrial clients,
will be carried out in a clearly structured manner and with due compensation.
Based on the appraisal of the first six research and standards institutes,
there is a high probability that their transformation to technology
development and support institutions can be gradually accomplished. In the
case of the venture financing component, each of the four institutions has
been thoroughly appraised and, with the advice of IFC, organizational
arrangements have been modified so that they can operate effectively and



- 43 -
profitably. Furthermore, two of the institutions have had extensive
experience with ventures, investments and share divestiture similar to VC, and
another has more than a year of good experience with VC after previous
experimentation. This component, as well as the project as a whole, now
requires close supervision and patience, since the pay-back will only come in
seven to ten years.
5.25     The major effort under way in India to transform the industrial
environment and technology development strategy is in itself complex and
risky, but clearly merits the Bank's support. Any back tracking on the
liberalization of general industrial policy can have a serious impact on the
success of this project since ITD will only result if the industrial and
competitive environment foster the need for it. All indications are, however,
that the Indian Government will continue to take steps to encourage both
domestic and interational competition in the industrial sector.



- 44 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       Assurances have been provided in the Legal Documents that the
Government:
(a)  with respect to VC, (i) would ensure that each VCF management
entity will be free to (1) invest without seeking approval for
each investment; (2) sel& their shares on the capital markets at
prices that they determine; (3) invest in the range of equity,
quasi-equity and quasi-loan financial instruments (para. 2.30);
(ii) relend proceeds of the Bank loan to IDBI and ICICI in rupees
at 12% p.a. for 16 years including 7 years of grace with interest
capitalized during the grace period (para. 4.27); (iii) cause
IDBI to relend to APIDC, GIIC and CanBank according to the same
terms and conditions and advance funds as necessary (para. 6.3);
(b)  with respect to the TDF, (i) would ensure that no revisions are
undertaken which limit access of industrial firms (para. 3.26);
(ii) establish a mechanism that ensures forwarding of
documentation to one central location (para. 4.39);
(c)  with respect to the flow of funds under the project, (i) would
establish the Special Account (para. 4.38); and (ii) transfer
funds from SA promptly to beneficiary institutions upon receipt
of appropriate documentation and requests (para. 4.38).
6.2      Assurances have been provided by the Government in the Credit
Agreement that (a) IDA funds would be placed in a Fund to be managed by ICICI
(para. 4.28); and (b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ICICI would
incorporate the basis upon which ICICI will manage the Fund, including the
criteria, terms and conditions of on-lending to TIs and to industry for
sponsored research in or with TIs (para. 4.26).
6.3      Assurances have been obtained from ICICI in a Project Agreement that:
(a)  for the TI subcomponent (i) terms, conditions and fee structure
would be followed (para. 4.28); (ii) additional TIs (not already
appraised) to be financed would satisfy the selection guidelines
included in para. 5.18; (iii) subloan agreements with the first
six appraised TIs would be disbursed after demonstrating
substantial compliance with 1988/1989 targets (para. 5.18);
(iv) for all TIs, safety and cost accounting requirements would
be followed (paras. 5.23, 4.14); (v) Bank approval of additional
TI subloans would be required for the first two ICICI appraised
subloans and for those exceeding US$4 million equivalent
(para. 4.31); (vi) all additional subloans will be approved by
the TB (para. 5.14); and (vii) LIB procedures according to Bank



- 45 -
Procurement Guidelines would be followed for equipment packages
exceeding US$200,000 (para. 4.33).
(b)  for the sponsored R&D promotion fund, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, (i) subprojects to be financed would follow
criteria and procedures set out in Operating Guidelines
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.16); (ii) adequatL subproject
review procedures would be adopted (para. 4.18);
(c) for the TG, ICICI will maintain organizational management
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and assign adequate
appropriate staff to manage the component (para. 5.14).
6.4      Assurances have been provided for ICICI, CanBank, APIDC and GIIC in
ICICI and IDBI project agreements that the respective: (a) VCM functions
primarily as a VC management entity whose main objectives would be to promote
and support start-up and growth-oriented technology companies, and maximize
returns on VCFs managed (para. 5.3); (b) VCM employ staff with a profile of
adequate background and industrial experience (para. 5.3); (c) the VCMs would
follow prior Bank review arrangements (para. 4.31); (d) that terms and
conditions and operating guidelines for the VCFs in which the proceeds of the
Bank loan would be invested are acceptable to the Bank (paras. 5.3 and 5.11);
(e) terms and conditions and operating guidelines of the VCM are satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 5.3); (f) reporting, audit and operational audit
requirements will be followed (paras. 4.40-4.41).
6.5      The signing of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and
ICICI and IDBI, respectively, and financial agreement between IDBI and CanBank
would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 4.26). The
signing of financial agreements by IDBI with APIDC and GIIC, would be
conditions of APIDC's and GIIC's respective disbursement from the proposed
loan (para. 4.26).
Recommendation
6.6      The proposed Industrial Technology Development Project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$145 million and an IDA credit of SDR 44.2
million (US$55 million equivalent) to India. The Loan and Credit would be
made on standard Bank and IDA terms with the exception that US$45 million for
venture capital would be repaid over 16 years including 7 years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
- 46-
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial System Summary
1.       The Indian financial system is highly segmented with different roles
clearly earmarked for the various institutions. The Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) performs the traditional central banking role of note issuer and banker
to the government and the commercial banks. In addition, it formulates and
manages monetary and credit policy, supervises the commercial banks, and
provides deposit insurance through a subsidiary. Moreover, the RBI has
'qsumed a development role by providing refinance lines and promoting
-cialized development finance institutions. Finally, the RBI manages the
foreign exchange market and the exchange control system.
2.       The Banking System.  The financial sector is dominated by the banking
system. The commercial banks, mainly government-owned, have the lead role in
resource mobilization. The most important bank is the State Bank of India
(SBI). As of June 1988, the Scheduled Commercial Banks had total assets of
over Rs 1,420 billion, of which 91% were accounted for by the 28 public sector
banks and the rest by the 20 private Indian banks and 30 foreign banks.
Table 1 summarizes the patterns of resource mobilization and allocation in the
commercial banking system.
Table 1: SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET OF COMMERCIAL BANKS (DOMESTIC BUSINESS)
(% of total assets, June 1988)
Assets                                Liabilities
Cash and RBI Deposits          14.5      Deposits and Similar Liab.       98.8
Investments (Liq. Req.)       34.8       RBI Borrowing                     0.6
Credit:  Total                 50.7      Other (including Caittal)         0.6
o.w.:  Priority Sectors    (21.0) /a
Food Credit          (1.5)
Other               (28.3)
Total                   100.0                                       100.0
Memo Item: Total assets covered - Rs billion 1,420.5
/ Priority sectors estimated using March 1988 share of priority credits.
Source: RBI, Annual Report 1987/88.



ANEX 1
[                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 2
- 47 -
3.       The Commercial Banks' scope for creating credit is strictly limited
by reserve and liquidity ratio requirements which currently channel about
half of deposits into compulsory investments in the securities of Government
and public sector institutions at below-market rates. Furthermore, they have
limited discretion over the direction of their lending as RBI credit
allocation guidelines account for about 77% of total deposits. The system
has a negative impact on commercial banks' profitability as the net interest
income they receive is only slightly more than their administrative costs.
Their profits are derived largely from unfunded items such as fee income on
international trade, foreign exchange commissions and gains on portfolio
trading activities.
4.       The development finance system comprises national- and state-level
development banks and investment institutions. At the national level, the
predominant development banks are: Industrial Development Bank of India
(IDBI), Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited
(ICICI), and Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI). In addition,
the Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank) was set up in 1982 to take over
the export finance operations of IDBI, and the Industrial Reconstruction Bank
of India (IRBI) was established in 1984 to assume responsibility for
rehabilitating sick units. These institutions generally do not take
deposits, but either sell financial assets directly to the public, or raise
their resources from banks, in many cases under the liquidity requirements.
They also obtain resources from the domestic capital market, bilateral and
multilateral sources, as well as some commercial borrowings from abroad.
Their major emphasis is on channeling long term finance to private and joint
sector companies. Since the early 1980s and increasingly since 1985, the
delicensing policy of the Government has forced these institutions to
evaluate their borrowers more carefully and offer an increasing array of
other financial services, ranging from merchant banking and leasing to more
recent attempts of providing venture capital.
5.       The All-India investment institutions are:  Life Insurance Corpor-
ation of India (LIC), General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC), and Unit
Trust of India (UTI). The latter is a tax-exempt mutual fund that raises
resources from households and invests the proceeds in the stock market. It
has provided basic support to the stock market and has gradually become one
of the dominant buyers, along with the LIC and GIC.
6.       The State Finance Corporations (SFCs) and State Industrial Develop-
ment Corporations (SIDCs) are the state level development banks. Their main
shareholeers are the respective State Governments and the IDBI, and they
receive most of their resources from the IDBI and the GOI/RBI. The SIDCs are
promotional agencies of the State Governments that extend loans and take
equity participations. Many of the SIDCs suffer from high arrears and poor
recoveries, and consequently have poor debt-service coverage ratios as shown
in Table 2. Those SIDCs with satisfactory performance have been in Andhra
Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX I
- 48 -                               Page 3
Table 2: SIDCs' DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIOS, 1982/83-1986/87
SI.
No    Name of SIDC         1982-83    1983-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87
1.   Andhra Pradesh          1.27        1.03       1.01        0,74       1.08
2.   Assam                   0.89        0.60       1.08         -         0.19
3.   Bihar                   0.64        0.31       0.38        1.01       0.45
4.   Goa                     0.92        1.15       0.89        0.95       1.04
5.   Gujarat                 1.23        1.00       1.09        1.03       1.01
6.   Haryana                 0.22        1.69       1.47        0.88       1.99
7.   Himachal Pradesh        1.01       0.88        1.03        1.02       1.00
8.   Jammu & Kashmir         0.70        0.77       0.82        0.61       1.37
9.   Karnataka               1.40        1.09       0.95        1.15       1.09
10.   Kerala                  1.03        1.05       1.09        0.94       0.86
11.   Madhya Pradesh          n .87       1.11       0.70        0.95       0.98
12.   Maharashtra             .L.39       1.61       1.47        1.41       1.27
13.   Orissa                  0.73        0.65       0.82        0.73       0.83
14.   Pondicherry             0.93        1.22       0.97        0.79       0.95
15.   Punjab                  0.87        0.82       1.27        1.22       0.61
16.   Rajasthan               0.94        0.61       0.52        0.69       0.49
17.   Tamil Nadu              0.86        1.21       1.03        1.05       0.79
18.   Uttar Pradesh           1.35        1.29       1.29        0.97       1.11
19.   West Bengal             1.69        1.32       0.78        1.15       1.02
20.   Arunachal Pradesh        -          0.92       0.70        0.36       0.53
21.   Manipur                  -           -          -           -         1.00
22.   Meghalaya               1.42        1.42       1.37        0.64       0.60
23.   Mizoram                  -          0.60       0.35        0.37       1.64
24.   Nagaland                1.08        0.63       1.09         -         0.62
25.   Sikkim                  2.89        0.75       0.70        0.74       0.61
26.   Tripura                  -          1.00        -          Neg.       Neg.
Average                 1.15        1.14       1.06        1.08       0.97
Source: Operational Highlights of SIDCs, IDBI, March 1988.
l



ANNEX 2
Page 1
- 49 -
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
India's Cagital Market
1.       India has 14 regional stock ex.'%hanges, which are markets for shares
and debenture of private firms and for long term government securities.
Bombay is by far the most important exchange in terms of number and market
value of listed companies shares and turnover. Over 4,000 companies are
listed on the Indian Stock Exchanges, which is more than in any country other
than the U.S.; the market capitalization of listed firms in 1985 was similar
to Spain or Denmark among the developed countries, and more than double
either Korea and Mexico among the developing countries. In addition to the
stock market, there is also a growing market in Treasury bills, and a money
market for interbank funds and commercial paper, which the RBI is now trying
to stimulate through regulatory changes.
2.       The government securities market forms the largest segment of the
capital market. However, this marke.. segment is a captive one. Commercial
banks, the LIC and the GIC buy almost all of any issue and tend to hold
issues to maturity because of the portfolio requirements. Hence, the
secondary market is very narrow. In recent years, rates on these instruments
have been increased in line with the Chakravarty Committee's recommendations.
Private investors own only a minimal amount of government debt.
3.       The stock market has grown rapidly in recent years.  At the
beginning of the 1980s, a number of changes occurred that stimulated the
demand for stocks and bonds of private companies. These included lifting of
restrictions on dividend payouts, increases in the ceiling on debt:equity
ratios and improvements in the facilities for non-resident Indians.
Moreover, restrictions on the purposes for which companies could issue
securities were progressively relaxed to allow flotation of debentures to
fund new companies, mergers/acquisitions and working capital. The
quantitative limit for issues exempt from capital issues controls was doubled
to Rs 10 million and listing requirements were eased. Smaller firms were
given improved access to the non-convertible debenture market by the raising
of the interest rate ceiling on their issues. Also, measures to diversify
the markets and improve the attractiveness of issues by start-up firms
included the introduction of new instruments such as Cumulative Convertible
Preference Shares (CCPS - these securities count as equity, carry a fixed
dividend and are convertible into straight equity after three to five years).
Finally, the Government introduced legislation to protect investors and boost
confidence in the markets, and new institutions such as a stock holding
corporation have been set up to simplify the purchase of securities.



ANNEX 2
- 50 -                                 Page 2
4.       The investment climate also improved with the initiation of trade
and industrial liberalization and the increased in industrial activity.
Finally, growth of UTI and the LIC and GIC meant growing demand from
institutional investors. Supply of issues also increased as corporate
investment rose. At the same time, the growth of bank credit to industry
slowed and became more expensive, as a result of the growth of priority
sector lending and the rise in the ceiling interest rate on non-priority
credits. The result was a stock market boom in both prices and issues, as
displayed by Table 1.
Table 1: CAPITAL ISSUES AND CAPITAL RAISED
(Amounts in R BLillian)
Private Sector Caaital IssUes la         Public
Shares                 Debentures               Sector
Average                 (of which   Total  Raised /b
No.  Amount  Price Index la  E:  Amount  convertiblel  Azunt  Amount
1981182         2.82     188              1.96      n.a.     4.78
1982183    578   2.61     n.a.       66  4.45       n.a.     7.06
1983184    741   3.83     n.a.       53  4.54       n.a.     8.37
1984/85    407   3.63     253        64  6.93       n.a.    10.56
1985186    767   8.59     412        83  8.44    (0.85)    17.03   2.65
1986/87    430  10.00     583        99  15.60    (10.82)    25.60   19.78
1987/88    n.-.  10.99    486       n.a.  6.50    (5.12)    17.49   18.23
1988/89                   604 ld
la Based on RBI Surveys. Excludes private placements.
Lb Non-fLnancial. Includes oversubseriptions.
Ie Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, anual average.
Id Indicative - Derived from Economic Times ordinary share priee Lndex.
Source: RBI, Renort on Currency and Finance and RBI, Annual Report 1987188.
5.       In the mid-1980s, another boom occurred in response to a number of
factors. There was a further increase in the ceiling interest rates (from
13.5% to 15%); a provision was enacted that permitted companies to buy back
non-convertible debentures and thus provide a substitute for a secondary
market; and the banks and all-India development finance institutions developed
a secondary market. On the macroeconomic front, taxes were reduced and the
industrial climate improved. Also, in 1985/86, in a change in Government
policy, public sector non-financial companies began to raise resources in the
financial markets in significant amounts (the development banks have always
raised funds in the market and their issues are not included in Table 1). In
1986/87, public sector firms began issuing large volumes of bonds. These
carried rates of 14% and a tax free 10%, which was quite attractive given
India's high corporate and private tax rate. A large fraction of these issues



Page 3
- 51 -
were initially taken up by banks and financial institutions. However, the
private equity market became oversold in 1987, owing to: (1) competition from
the public sector bonds; (2) release of public sector bonds by financial
institutions; and (3) the poor general economic situation resulting from a
severe drought. In 1988, stock prices improved, with the enhanced economic
outlook that was more than fulfilled by the good monsoon, with the slowdown in
public sector issues, and overall growth of the economy on the order of 10%.
6.       The growing capital market clearly has represented an alternative
source of finance. Firms that have encountered constraints on bank lending
have been able to go to the capital market. Nonetheless, the market remains a
limited venue for long term funding. In 1986/87, private firms issued about
Rs 24 billion and actually raised about Rs 19 billion in the market. 1/ This
compares with IDBI loan sanctions of Rs 33 billion (net) and ICICI loan
sanctions of Rs 11 billion, and disbursements of Rs 22.5 billion and
Rs 7 billion, respectively.
/ Amounts raised differ from issues because of undersubscriptions and
timing.



ANNEX 3
I                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 1
- 52 -
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Venture Capital Guidelines I/
It has been decided to formulate a scheme under which venture capital
companies/funds will be enabled to invest in new companies and be eligible for
the concessional treatment of capital gains availabl' to non-corporate
entities.
Venture Capital Companies/Funds which want to avail of concessional
treatment ef capital gains for which necessary legislative measures will be
taken, would be required to comply with the following guidelines:
1.       Establishment.
(i) Funds, companies or schemes wishing to undertake venture capital
finance activities may be established using the term "venture capital" if they
come within, and agree to abide by these guidelines.
(ii) Approvals would be given for the establishment of the venture
capital companies/funds by the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance, or such authority as may be nominated by the Government, and
applications for such approvals should be made with a suitable explanatory
note and details of the proposal and addressed to CCI/Jt. Secretary
(Investments) in Department of Economic Affairs.
(iii) Applications for issue of capital by companies should be made
under the Capital Issues (Control) Act to the CCI composite applications for
approval to establish the fund and for the issue of capital can also be made.
(iv) All India Public Sector Financial Institutions. SBI and other
scheduled banks, including foreign banks operating in India, and the
subsidiaries of the above would be eligible to start venture capital funds
companies, subject to such approval as may be required from the Reserve Bank
of India in respect of banking companies. Joint ventures between them, or
between non-institutional promoters and them would be permitted, but the
equity holding of such promoters shall not exceed a total of 20% and must not
be the largest single holding.
1/ Press Release No. S.l1(86)-CCI(11)/87, dated November 25, 1988, from
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs), office of the
Controller of Capital Issues.



Page 2
2.     - Management.
(i) It is required that the venture capital funds/companies are
managed, by professionals such as bankers, managers and administrators and
persons with adequate experience of industry, finance, accounts, etc. If
established by subsidiaries of banks/institutions, or in-house schemes, they
should maintain their independence and an arms length relationship.  They
would, however, be free to draw upon the professional expertise and
infrastructure of the parent organization in the interests of their
shareholders and clients, and minimizing costs.
(ii) No person would be permitted to be the full time
Chairman/President, Chief Executive, M.D. or Executive Director or a whole
time director of a VCC/VCF if he holds any of the above positions in any other
company, except that he may hold such a positiotn in an assisted company by
virtue of his position in the VCC/VCF.
3.       Venture CaRital Assistance.
(i) It is intended that venture capital assistance should go mainly
to enterprises where the risk element is comparatively high due to the
technology involved being relatively new, untried or very closely held, and/or
the entrepreneurs being relatively new and not affluent though otherwise
qualified and the size being modest. For successful units, the possibility of
high returns would exist, but the projects would initially find it difficult
to raise equity from the market, especially when public issues are no longer
readily available for small, greenfield companies. The assistance should
mainly be for equity support, though loan support to supplement this may also
be done.
Venture capital assistance, therefore, should cover those enterprises
which fulfill the following parameters:
(a) Size: Total investment not to exceed Rs 10 crores.
(b) Technology New or relatively untried or very closely held or
being taken from pilot to commercial stage, or which
incorporates some significant improvement over the existing
ones in India.
(c) Promoters/Entrepreneurs: Relatively new, professionally or
technically qualified, with inadequate resources or backing to
finance the project.
Investment in enterprises engaged in trading broking, investment or
financial services, agency or liaison work, shall not be permitted. Further
investment in assisted units for their expansion or strengthening; or
investments for the revival of sick units, would be permitted as a part of
venture capital activity, and the above parameters will not apply. The
recipient venture should be established as a limited company and must employ
professionally qualified persons to maintain its accounts.



ANNEX 3
- 54 -                                Page 3
(ii) The VCP/VCC should invest at least 75% of its funds into venture
capital activity as explained in para. 3 (i).
(iii) During the first 12 months, any permissible investments may be
made (including leasing up to 15% of the funds), but a level of 30% should be
reached for venture capital activity by the end of the second year, and 60% by
the end of the third year, 75% by the end of the fifth year of operations.
The balance amounts may be invested in any new issue, by an existing
or a new company, of equity, CCPs, debentures, bond or other securities
approved for this purpose by CCI. A part of this may also be employed for
leasing but this should not, at any stage, exceed 15% of the total funds
deployed, including in the first year. Activities such as money market
operations, bill rediscounting, broking, portfolio investments and fund
management, financial services and consultancy, intercorporate lending would
not be permitted to VCC/VCF. Specific approval of CCI should be taken for
activities not prohibited, but also not included in the permitted list above.
4.       Size.   The minimum size of a VCC/VCF would be Rs 10 crores.  If it
desires to raise funds from the public, the promoters share shall not be less
than 40%.
5.       Capital Issues.
(i) Funds may be raised through public issues and/or private
placements to finance VCF/VCCs.
(ii) Foreign equity up to 25% multilateral/international financial
organizations, development finance institutes, reputed mutual Funds etc., would
be permitted, provided these are management-neutral and are for medium to long
term investments.
(iii) NRI investment would be permitted up to 74% on a non-repatriable
basis and up to 25%/40% on a repatriable basis.
(iv) An application should be addressed to Ministry of Finance
Investment Division, North Block, New Delhi, with a copy to Chairman,
Securities Exci;ange Board of India for foreign/NRI participation in Capital
Issues.
6.       Debt:Equity Ratio.  Debt:equity ratio may be maximum 1:1.5.
7.       Underwriting/Listing.
(i) The VCC/VCF may be listed according to the prescribed norms. Its
issue may be underwritten at the discretion of the promoters.
(ii) For assisted units also, listing guidelines would apply
Investment by widely held VCF would be treated as public participation for this
purpose.
8.       Exit.  Pricing of the shares at the time of disinvestment by a public
issue of general offer of sale by the VCC/VCF, may be done by them, subject to



ANNEX 3
Page 4
- 55 -
this being calculated on objective criteria like book value, profit earning
capacity, etc. and the basis is adequately disclosed to the public.
9.       Eligibilitv for Tax Concession.  The preferential tax treatment would
be available to the approved venture capital company/fund only in respect of
financing of such assisted units as are eligible to be treated as venture
capital units as defined in para. 3. For this purpose, the unit seeking equity
support from the VCC/VCF should obtain a letter of eligibility from IDBI/ICICI,
or any such agency that may be nominated by the Government.



A    A 
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Data Research and Development
Table 1: INDIA--PUBLIC AND PRIVATE R&D EXPENDITURES
(Rs million)
1976177  1977/78  1978179  1979180  1980181  1981182  1982183  1983184  1984185  1985/86  198e!87
National
total       3.742    4.306        5.286       6.385   7,605    9.407   12.060   13.811   17.816   20.688   26.675
Private
sector         484       582        759         921   1,207        147    1.979    2,078    2,332    2,519    3,181
State govts.    252        295         402         46      593        718       971    1,199    1,261    1,628    1,929
Central
Govt.       3,006    3,439        4,125       5,004   5,805    7,219    9,120   10,533   14,223   16,541   21,576
Central
agencies   2,462        n.a.      3,195       3,848   4,384    5,472    7,372    8,321   11,495   13,346   17,597
cf vhic}.
CSIR            413      n.a.         239         26      406        461       877       900        967       900    1,104
DOE              42      n.a.          51         75       54         75       481         38        41        48         56
Publ. sect.
enterprises  318         375        552         734      864    1,078    1,224    1,617    1,712    1,986    2,371
Rsrah. Assus.    39          45          6          64       83        94       114       130        143       163        260
Indust. RS       823       990      1,374       1,724   2,129    2,416    3,015    3,600    3,964    4,432    5,542
Shares (1)
Pvt. sect/
Total RWD       13        14          14         14       16         16        16        15         13        12        12
Ind./Total
RD la           22        23          26         27       28         26        25        25         22        21        21
_a  Includes private and public enterprises and research associations.
Sources: OST publications.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Table 2: INDIA--RESEARCH INTENSITIES OF MAJOR INDUSTRIAL SUBSECTORS /a
Korea     Japan
1980-82           1984-87       1985       1985
1. Drugs and pharma-
ceuticals             1.72-2.05      1.8C-2.2 (1) Lb  n.a.         n.a.
2. Industrial
machinery              1.03-1.19      0.95-0.99 (4)   3.06         2.74
3.  Transportation         0.87-1.17       0.52-0.64 (5)    2.2        2.90
4.  Chemicals              0.87-1.00       0.78-1.45 (2)   0.96        3.79
5. Electricals and
electronics           0.72-0.84       0.92-1.11 (3)   4.12         5.10
6.  Cement and gypsum    0.61-0.76         0.34-0.45 (6)   n.a.        n.a.
7. Agricultural
machinery              0.48-0.71      0.22-0.41 (7)   n.a.         n.a.
8.  Rubber goods           0.44-0.66       0.31-0.32 (8)   n.a.        n.a.
9. Metallurgical
industries            0.44-0.53       0.58-0.67 (5)   1.14         1.59
11. Soaps and cosmetics  0.16-0.51                          n.a.
/a  Defined as the ratio of R&D expenditures to total sales.
/b Rating in 1984-87.
Source: DST, GOI.
Table 3: TOTAL R&D PERSONNEL IN SELECTED COUNTRIES
India (1986)                       85,309
Korea (1985)                       41,473
US (1985)                         790,000
France (1983)                      92,682
Germany (1981)                    115,443
Japan (1985)                      381,282



ANNEX 4
Page 3
- 58 -
Table 4:  FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT OF MANPOWER EMPLOYED IN R&D ESTABLISHMENTS
(as of January 4, 1986)
Personnel
engaged
primarily in
R&D activities
A.  Institutional Sector
1.  Department of Atomic Energy                                              6,062
2.  Council of Scientific and Industrial Research                            6,546
3.  Defense Research and Development Organization /a                         7,950
4.  Indian Council of Agricultural Research                                  5,403
5.  Department of Space fb                                                   6,827
6.  Indian Council of Medical Research                                         605
7.  Other central government ministries and agencies                         6,993
8.  State governments                                                       18,253
B.  Industrial Sector
1.  Public sector including joint sector                                     9,511
2.  Private sector                                                          17,159
Total                                                                 85.309
/-a  A number of research laboratories have not provided data.  These figures
have been reproduced from the report for the year 1982-83.
/b  Figures indicated in 1984-85 report have been adopted on account of non-
response.
Table 5: NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS FOR PATENTS FROM PERSONS IN INDIA
AND ABROAD FROM 1975-76 TO 1985-86
1975-76 1976-77 1977-78 1978-79 1979-80 1980-81 1981-82 1982-83 1983-84 1984-85 1985-86
India           1.129  1,342  1,097  1,124  1,05  1,159  1,093  1,135  1,055  1,001   999
Fozeign residents
in India         34   23    37   13    37   19    19   --   25            2    --
Foreigners resi-
dent abroad   1,833  1,739  1,736  1,795  1,888  1,776  1,877  1,950  2,065  2,316  2,527
Total       2.996  3.104  2.870  2.932  2.980  2.954  2.989  3.085  3.145  3.319  3.526
Source: Annual Report o Controller Genera, of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks for 1984-85 and 1985-86.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
59-
INDI_A
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Collaborations and Technology Payments
Table 1: FOREIGN COLLABORATIONS AND FOREIGN INVESTMENTS APPROVED
Number       FC vLth
of PC       foreLSn        Total               Share of FDX bv malor countrles               Average FDI
approved       equity         DFI           UK            US         Germany        Japan       per case
(Rs mln)       ----------------- (() -------------------            (Rs '000)
1970                 183            32          24.52            1            20             5           30         766.3
1971                 245            46          58.38           28            26           20             8      1,269.1
1972                 257            37          62.27           18            66             2            0      1,683.0
1973                 205            34          28.17            4            42           25            12         828.5
1974                 359            55          67.13            8            29             9            7      1,220.5
1975                 271            40          32.05            4            37            22            4         801.2
1976                 277            39          72.69            8            62           13             0      1,863.8
1977                 267            27          40.03           17            46           19             0      1,482.6
1978                 307            44          94.06            5            50             9            1      2,137.7
1979                 267            32          56.87           26            39             8             0     1,777.2
1980                 526            73          89.24           11            24             5           19      1,222.5
1981                 389            57         108.71            7            21           50             6      1,907.2
1982                 590           113         628.06            3             8             6           40      5,558.1
1983                 673           129         618.73            2            22             8           26      4,796.4
1984                 752           151      1,130.02             2             8             3            5      7,483.6
1985               1,024           238      1,260.66             3            32             9           12      5,296.9
1986                 957           240      1,069.52             7            27            19            5      4,456.3
1987                 852           242      1,077.05             8            27             9            6      4,450.6
1988                 930           134 k   2,395.00              6 la         47 La        17 la          3 /a  9,086.7 /a
Total         9.331        1.763 k   8.913.16              6            27            11            11      4.387.9 /a
Source: MLnistry of Industry (SIA) and Indian Investment Center.
Note: These figures include the period January-June



ANNEX 5
Page 2
U                                               - 60-
Table 2: TECHNOLOGY PAYMENTS
(Rs million)
lotal
Profits   Dividends  Royalties  Know-how   Interest   payments
1970             131.20     434.30       52.30      206.30     128.00      ???
1971              99.40     388.70       58.60      121.30     807.00
1972             155.40     390.80       73.30      113.30     156.00      888.80
1973             219.10     375.10       62.10      140.80     162.70      959.80
1974              71.90     184.60       84.60      125.60     367.00      838.70
1975             203.60     248.40      104.90      236.60     256.60   1,060.00
1976             193.90     454.70      158.80      378.00     251.10   1,466.50
1977             101.30     680.10      195.00      281.40     227.00   1,484.80
1978             102.40     543.50      126.50      555.20     314.40   1,642.00
1979             143.70     509.20       93.30      439.70     252.20   1,440.10
1980             121.00     559.20       88.80   1,049.30      232.20   2,041.51
1981             121.60     589.20      159.90   2,707.00      410.80   3,988.50
1982             191.20     703.10      397.20   2,505.80      802.30   4,679.60
1983             200.00     621.10      276.00   3,148.90      815.10   5,061.10
1984             166.80     745.80      284.90   3,006.00   1,239.10   5,442.60
1985             118.00     752.00      235.00   3,679.00   2,187.00   6,971.00
1986             106.00     855.00      401.00   3,584.00   3,189.00   8,135.00
Sources:  FDI--Ministry of Industry (SIA); Technology Payments--Ministry of
Finance and Indian Investment Center.
Table 3: INDUSTRY-WISE FOREIGN COLLABORATIONS APPROVED
Total
1974-76   1977-79   1980-82   1983-85       1986     1974-86
Metallurgical ind.       54         37         91        99         45       326
Fuels & chemicals       119         91       174        250        124       758
Electronics & elec-
tricals                188        163       275        491        175     1,292
Capital goods           368        414       736      1,140        322     2,979
Leather & rubber         33         24        25         56         19       157
Nonmetal minerals        41         30        56        125         40       292
Traditional mfr.         31         23        47         52         34       187
Other manufactures       73         59        98        241        196       667
Total              907       841      1.501      2.454       955      6.658
Source: Ministry of Industry (SIA).



ANNEX 6
Page 1
- 61 -
IND-IA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Development Fund Guidelines
1.        The following two pvblications present the guidelines by which the
TDF now operates.
Government of India
Ministry of Industry
Department of Industrial Development
PRESS NOTE
Subject: Import of Technology and Capital Goods under the Technical
Development Fund Scheme - liberalisation of the Scheme.
The Government of India introduced the Technical Development Fund
Scheme (TDF) in 1976 in order to encourage modernisation and upgradation of
technology by existing industrial units. The Department of Industrial
Development has been operating this scheme. Over the years, the TDF Scheme
has proved to be a valuable scheme for modernisation and upgradation of
technology by existing industrial units. On the basis of a review of the
scheme, it has been decided to further liberalise the scheme with a view to
making it more flexible and result oriented.
2.        This scheme will now be available for the import of the following
items by existing industrial units for their modernisation and upgradation of
technology:
a)   Capital equipment (all types).
b)   Technical Know-how.
c)   Technical assistance.
d)   Technical drawings and designs.
e)   Technical consultancy services.
3.        In order to avail of the facility under this scheme, it must be
shown that the proposed modernisation and upgradation of technology would
contribute significantly to any of the following results:
1.   Quality improvement.
2.   Cost reduction.
3.   Productivity gains.
4.   More efficient utilisation or conversion of raw-materials/inputs.
5.   Energy saving.
6.   Enhancement of export potential.
7.   Product diversification/Product-mix rationalisation.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
- 62 -
4.        The ceiling for imports under this scheme will henceforth be the
foreign exchange equivalent of Rs. 2 Crores per unit per financial year. In
deserving cases, this limit can be relaxed to enable a total technology
package to be implemented.
5.        The facility will be available to an existing industrial unit that
has commenced commercial production prior to the date of application under
this scheme. It will also be availab'le for product diversification/product-
mix rationalisation through the introduction of new and more sophisticated
range of products, provided the industrial licence/registration of the unit
covers those items.
6.        The application under the scheme should clearly state the
anticipated increase in production, if any, as a result of the proposed
modernisation and upgradation of technology. In order to be eligible under
the scheme, such increase in production capacity should not exceed 49% of the
existing licensed/registered capacity of the unit.
7.        There will be no restrictions on the number of applications that an
existing industrial unit can make in a financial year under the scheme so long
as the financial ceiling mentioned in para 4 above is not exceeded.
8.        Applications for availing of the facility under the Scheme should be
made at the Secretariat for Industrial Approvals (Technical Development Fund),
Department of Industrial Development, Ministry of Industry, Udyog Bhavan, New
Delhi, in the form prescribed for the TDF Scheme together with the form
prescribed for the capital goods import, foreign collaboration, designs and
drawings, etc. as the case may be. The application should be made in 12
copies. In the case of an application for import of capital goods, it should
also be accompanied by a treasury challan for the prescribed application fee.
9.        A simplified procedure will be followed under the scheme for
expeditious approval of the proposals:
a)   Foreign Exchange allocation will be simultaneously made.
b)   The technical authority concerned will give indigenous clearance,
and in deserving cases, the indigenous clearance may be waived.
c)   Decision on applications will be given as far as possible within 45
days.
d)   Import licenses will be granted by the Regional Licensing Offices.
10.       The revised scheme is effective from 1st April, 1988.
11.       This supersedes all the earlier Press notes/instructions applicable
to this scheme.                                                                           !
No. 2(1)/88-TDF                                 New Delhi, the 22nd April, 1988



ANNEX 6
Page 3
- 63 -
Forwarded to the Principal Information Officer, Press Information
Bureau, Government of India for issuing the Press Note and giving it a wide
publicity.
(signed)
(K. J. BEDDY)
JOINT SECRETARY TO THE GOVT. OF INDIA.
Press Information Bureau
Shastri Bhavan,
New Delhi
Government of India
Ministry of Industry
Department of Industrial Development
PRESS NOTE (1989 series)
Subject: Import of Technology and Capital Goods under the TDF Scheme -
Further liberalisation of the Scheme.
Government of India attach high priority to the modernisation and
upgradation of technology by industrial units so that they can continuously
improve the quality of their products, reduce the cost of production, and
achieve greater efficiency and competitiveness. The Technical Development
Fund Scheme (TDF) is one of the important schemes administered by the
Department of Industrial Development to encourage this objective. This scheme
has been found useful by existing industrial units to implement speedily their
schemes for modernisation and upgradation of technology. The scope and
coverage of the scheme was liberalized by the Government with effect from 1st
April, 1988 by this Department's press Note No. 2(1)/88-TDF dated 22nd April,
1988. On the review of the scheme, it has been decided by the Government to
further liberalise the scheme as follows to enable existing industrial units
to implement modernisation and technology upgradation schemes:
1.   The ceiling limit for import of technology and capital goods will be
the foreign exchange equivalent of Rs. 3 crores per unit per
financial year instead of the present limit of Rs. 2 crores. In
deserving cases, this limit may be relaxed to some extent to enable
a total technology package to be implemented without fragmentation.
2.   The ceiling limit of Rs. 3 crores will be relaxed up to 50% in case
an industrial unit exports more than 10% of the total turnover of
the company or the industrial unit exports more than 25% of the
production of a particular item for which the TDF approval is sought
by it. Appropriate guarantees will be sought for the fulfilment of
this export commitment. This is intended to provide an extra



ANNEX 6
Page 4
- 64 -
incentive for units that are willing to show significant export
performance.
3.   In addition to the existing coverage, the scheme will also be
applicable for taking up the manufacture of any item included in the
broad-banded group in the licence/registration held by the
industrial unit, even though the unit may not be currently
manufacturing that item.
4.   In the case of non-NRTP/non-FERA companies, including section 20 (b)
MRTP companies in respect of products in which they are not
dominant, there will be no limit on expansion of capacity arising
out of the implementation of the technology upgradation or
modernisation scheme. The existing limit of 49% for such capacity
expansion will, however, continue in the case of MRTP/FERA
companies, including section 20 (b) MRTP companies in respect of
products in which they are dominant.
5.   In the case of industrial units who have reported to the BIFR in
terms of the Sick Industrial Companies Act, the scheme will be
suitably relaxed to enable the units to achieve cost reduction or
improved profitability by forward or backward integration or by
other suitable measures. This is intended to enable such units to
implement modernisation and cost reductio schemes quickly for
recovering their financial wealth.
2.        The above mentioned changes in the TDF Scheme will take effect from
1st April, 1989. In respect of all other matters, the provisions of this
Department's press note No. 2 (1)/88-TDF dated the 22nd April, 1988 will
continue to apply.
3.        Government hope that this liberalisation in the TDF Scheme will give
a further boost to modernisation and technology upgradation by existing
industrial units.
No. 2(1)/89-TDF                                 New Delhi, the 17th March, 1989
Forwarded to the Principal Information Officer, Press Information
Bureau, Govt. of India for issuing the Press Note and giving it a wise
publicity.
(sligred)
(A. V. Ganesan)
Addl. Secy. to the Govt. of India
Press Information Bureau
Shastri Bhavan,
New Delhi



ANNEX 7
Page 1
- 65 -
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Development Fund and Ministry of Industry--
Organizational Structure
Ministry of Industry (MOI) currently comprises the following four
departments:
1. Department of Industrial Development (DID);
2. Department of Company Affairs;
3.  Department of Chemicals and Petro-Chemicals; and
4.  Department of Public Enterprises.
The DID is the primary government agency for promotion of
industrialization, including formulating and implementating industrial policy
in accordance with national priorities and objectives. The three remaining
departments are more narrowly focused on the specific cases or subsectors
noted in their names. The DID is responsible for supervising the system of
industrial licensing (under the provisions of the Industries Development and
Regulation Act of 1951) as well as the regulations related to the import of
capital goods, technology and foreign investment.
Within the MOI, several committees have been formed which draw on
officials of MOI as well as those of other ministries and of the Planning
Commi3sion. Among the most important ones are thos econcerned with the import
and adaptation of foreign technology, i.e. the Capital Goods Committee (CG),
which decides on large capital goods imports and the Technical Development
Fund (TDF) Committee. In addition, there are several committees which are
concerned with new projects such as the Project Approval Board (PAB), the
Licensing Committee (LC) and the Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC).
The TDF described in paras. 3.23-3.26 of the report has a committee
which meets eve,y two weeks and is made up of the following members:
Additional Secretary of the Industry,
Department of Ind. Dev.                                          Chairman
Joint Secretary (Finance)                                          Member
Joint Secretary (Industrial Approvals)                             Member
Economic Advisor (Indu3try)                                        Member
According to particular subsector under dis-
cussion, committee will have additional mem-
bers of the following organizations:
A. DGTD
B. Administrative ministries
C. Planning Commission
Assistant Economic Advisor of DID                          Member Secretary



ANNEX 7
Page 2
- 66 -
Applications below Rs 1 million (US$67,000) can be approved by the secretariat
without submitting it to the TDF committee--in effect a free limit.
The value of TDF approvals through the end of March 1989 is presented in
Table 1.
Table 1:  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT FUND SCHEME (TDF), 1976-89
Drgs. & designs,
know-how, or
Total                Capital goods             consultancy
Number      Value        Number       Value        Number      Value
(Rs mln)                 (Rs mln)                 (Rs mln)
1976-77           79
1977-78          101
1978-79          152       361.8           --         144.4          20       17.4
1979-80          169       192.6          124         158.0          45       34.6
1980-81          278       345.5          183         249.4          95       96.1
1981-82          215       253.5          195         226.5          20       27.0
1982-83          201       313.8          158         250.1          43       62.9
1983-84          208       361.0          132         251.3          76      109.7
1984-85          267       496.2          166         327.8         101      168.4
1985-86          272       597.8          133         279.2         139      318.6
1986-87          272       691.5          125         352.2         147      339.3
1987-88          211       629.0          106         363.5         105      265.5
1988-89          256     1,040.0          140         583.0         116      457.0



ANNEX 8
- 67 -                               Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Technical Assistance for Technology SuDoort Services
A. CSIR
1.       Support will be provided to CSIR for institutional development
initiatives in the following areas: (a) technical assistance and training to
enhance CSIR's capability to market and manage its technology services to
industry, (b) a program to upgrade laboratory safety standards, and (c) a
consultant study to review and recommend improvement of NCL's management
system to serve as pilot effort for planning and management systems at other
CSIR institutes. The costs of these programs are estimated as follows:
UsS
Technology marketing and management                300,000
Laboratory safety program                         400,000
NCL management system                              300,000
Total                                      1.000.000
2.       Technology Marketing and Management.  The propn,ed technical
assistance program will finance:
(a) a study to develop a technology marketing and management
strategy. Two consultants, with expertise in the marketing and
management of R&D output would be employed to work with a small
CSIR team to devise a strategy, protocols and practices for (i)
a marketing survey/intelligence to provide a basis for CSIR R&D
priorities, (ii) assessing technology generated in CSIR for its
upgrading/upscaling, patenting, licexising and sales, and
(iii) designing the training program noted below; and
(b) training programs for CSIR headquarters and institute personnel
who are in or will join technology marketing and management
units. Training would take place in both India and abroad. The
focus of the training is to gain experience and expertise in (i)
mechanisms of technology transfer negotiation, packaging and
pricing; (ii) options for selecting clients, technology
arrangements, support services and long-term industry relations;
and (iii) strategies and procedures for carrying out market
surveys to help guide individual institutes in deciding on
future programs and priorities.



ANNEX 8
-68-                               Page 2
3.       This component will be organized and supervised by the Technology
Utilization group (TUG) at CSIR.  To monitor and measure the impact of this
component, the following performance indicators for CSIR's entire laboratory
network have been agreed with the TUG for the period 1990-95:
(a) revenue from contract research to increase 15% p.a.,
(b) revenue from consultancy value to increase 20% p.a.,
(c) earning from sale of intellectual property to increase 25% p.a.,
(d) income from sale of services to reach US$1 million,
(e) technology marketing and management units (or their equivalent)
to be set up at the majority of institutes by 1992, and
(f) operating guidelines and training to be completed by 1993 for
the units in all institutes supported under the project.
4.       Laboratory Safety Program.  Although CSIR laboratories have basic
safety equipment and facilities, the implementation of safety measures has not
been adequate. This problem has been recognized by the leadership at CSIR and
confirmed by Bank missions. Major contributing factors to this problem
include lack of proper protocols for safety management, insufficient well-
trained personnel with responsibility for safety, and inadequate priority
given to safety at individual institutes.
5.       In order to improve and upgrade safety levels, the program will:
(a) identify risks and hazards of each laboratory,
(b) study procedures and protocols adopted by well-known
laboratories abroad,
(c) evolve and devise protocols for safety suited to Indian
conditions, and
(d) implement the protocols through training of personnel and
creation of safety cells in laboratories.
6.       As a first measure, a safety cell would be formed at CSIR
headquarters, which would draw upon personnel knowledgeable and experienced in
the area from different CSIR laboratories. A three-person team in each area
.chemical, biological and engineering) along with consultants would visit
well-known laboratories and R&D organizations to study their practices and
protocols for safety management. They would then evolve a code of safety
practices and associated training suited to Indian working conditions and
environment. The protocols would be submitted to outside experts for review
and recommendations, and finally approved by CSIR.
7.       Once the protocols are approved, it is proposed to train about 80
scientists in 2 batches using foreign and domestic as well as in-house



ANNEX 8
- 69 -                               Page 3
experts. Local costs of arranging the training would be met by CSIR; the
costs of Indian and foreign consultants would be met from project funds.
8.       The TUG will be responsible for organizing and supervising the
program. The agreed actions and measurable indicators are summarized as
follows:
(a) the safety cell at CSIR headquarters will be established before
any CSIR institute can receive funding under the project;
(b) after implementation of the program, the safety cell will train
at least 100 additional personnel (in addition to the 80 during
the program) on all aspects of instituting a laboratory safety
program; and
(c) by 1992 safety manuals for the different disciplines would be
distributed to the corresponding CSIR laboratories.
CSI  would be responsible for funding the necessary follow-up actions to
institute the safety program.
9.       NCL Management System Upgrading.  Changing the orientation of CSIR
laboratories to provide more effective service to industry will require
changes in management as well as planning systems. NCL has been chosen as a
pilot case to gain experience in designing an effective management system that
integrates R&D activities with business strategy and marketing. The project
would finance:
(a) an international consultant study carried out in close
collaboration with key NCL leaders to (i) assess the current
approach to industrial liaison and develop a strategy and
options for closer liaison with industry and financial
institutions, (ii) design and establish a project-based cost
accounting syscem, (iii) review and improve project selection
and budget allocation system and process, (iv) review and
improve marketing and technology management, and (v) review the
technology management organization at NCL and propose, if
desirable, options for modifying the organizational structure;
(b) subsequent training programs and preparation of an MIS for
implementation. The technical assistance program will
complement the other project assistance to NCL. Agreed
performance indicators are presented in Annex 13; and
(c, a follow-up evaluation to determine the appropriateness and
applicability of the NCL management system to other RIs in the
CSIR.
B.  ICICI and ITD Studies
10.      Support would be provided to IC'CI's TG for building its capacity to
strengthen industry-TI collaboration. ICICI would receive about US$100,000
equivalent for foreign technical assistance, as required, to evaluate selected



Ah  L.1
Page 4
- 70 -
TI proposals and for short-term training and exposure to programs in other
countries which attempt to achieve similar objectives as the technology
services component of the proposed project.
11.      An additional US$600,000 would be used to undertake a series of
studies on the impact of key policies and factors on ITD in India. Studies
would include for example a comprehensive study of "in-house" R&D, including
what it has accomplished and if and how more should be stimulated.
12.      The remaining US$250,000 would be contracted by ICICI for technical
assistance or studies for (a) the development of a technology information
system which can be used by firms to access technologies in India and abroad,
(b) the development of training programs (partly financed by industry) in
technology management, and (c) evaluating programs which are aimed at
promoting ITD. All terms of reference, contracting procedures, etc., would be
subject to Bank approval.
C. BIS
13.      As India's exports increase, Indian industry will need increased
access to information and supporting service on standards, regulations and
certification and testing requirements of importing countries. To assist BIS
in exploring options for providing such information and service, a consultant
study would determine (a) alternative approaches with costs and benefits of
establishing a pertinent foreign standards and regulation data base and cross-
indexing it with counterpart Indian standards regulations, and (b) alternative
methods of providing access to firms of information and ways of reaching out
to BIS clients. The study would be carried out by consultants, probably from
international standards organizations in collaboration with BIS. The cost is
estimated at about US$50,000.



A   LI2
- 71 -                          Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technology Development and Information Company of India. Ltd. (TDICI)
1.       ICICI established in early 1987 a Venture Capital Division which
appraised and approved in the 15-month period ending March 1988 some 9
projects for a total financial assistance of Rs 5.5 crores. Based on this
experience, ICICI felt the need to promote its venture capital activities
into a separate entity with its specific corporate culture adapted to the
needs of venture capital finance.
2.       The Technology Development and Information Company of India, Ltd.
(TDICI) was created by ICICI in August 1988 and based in Bangalore (India's
high-tech center), with the mission of "accelerating the technology
development process in India through the provision of capital, financial and
other support services.' Its primary objective in its initial years of
operation would be to provide finance, particularly venture capital
assistance, to promote commercial, market-oriented technology ventures; it
would alsn lay down the foundations for providing at a later stage techno-
managerial services and technology information and consultancy services to
its clients. To achieve its first objectives, TDICI would manage, for a
management fee and a share in the profits, a series of VCFs to be subscribed
by financial institutions and corporate and private investors.
3.       TDICI initially took over the management of ICICI's first 9 venture
capital investments. During its first 8 months of operations, TDICI
approved and financed for a total of Rs 9 crores another 21 technology
innovative ventures, most of them in the rapidly growing fields of chemicals
and materials, pharmaceuticals, food and bio-technologies. Its financial
support, averaging Rs 0.5 crores (US$0.33 million) per project, has been
mainly through equity participations and conditional loans. This set of 30
projects have been transferred to a first Venture Capital Fund of Rs 20
crores, created in March 1989 under a new Venture Capital scheme of UTI and
subscribed equally by ICICI and UTI.
4.       TDICI has presently a pipeline of about 20 projects in the final
stages of appraisal and processing, with total assistance requirements of
Rs 13.5 crores. In addition, it has a portfolio of some 45 proposals for
financial assistance likely to total an estimated Rs 39 crores. To finance
those projects of the pipeline which will reach the final approval stage
(about half of proposals), TDICI will float in May-June 1989 a second VCF of
Rs 30 crores (of which Rs 5-Rs 7 crores are reserved for corporate sector
contributions) and a third VCF of Rs 60 crores in 1990. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB), the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and
other international agencies (including IFC) have been approached for, and
expressed interest in, subscribing to these funds. The level of demand for
venture capital finance, as reflected by TDICI's pipeline built-up over one
year, and TDICI's strong human resources (nine full-time experienced



ANNEX 9
Page 2
- 72 -
professionals in Bangalore, and four part-time professionals in ICICI-
Bombay) justify the total Rs 90 crores resources to be invested by TDICI
during the next 3 years and the proposed Bank assistance of US$20 million to
ICICI, representing one-third of this amount.
5.       Typical venture capital projects already, or about to be, financed
by TDICI are given in the attached Table 1. They cover a wide range of
innovative products and services, from alloys and fine chemicals to
engineering industries, electronics, pharmaceuticals, software and
biotechnology. Project costs range between Rs 0.5 and Rs 1 crore
(US$0.33-US$0.66 million), projected sales between Rs 1 and Rs 6 crores
(US$0.66-4 million), and royalties between 1% and 7% of sales. TDICI
financial assistance covers between 66% and 100% of the projects' costs, and
is extended mainly in the form of conditional loans (average share of 70%),
equity participation (20% on average) and standard loans.
6.       Financial projections (disbursements, basic assumptions, income
statement, cash-flow statements) for the 2nd and 3rd VCFs of TDICI are given
in Table 2. Disbursements would be spread over four years (1990-1993). The
VCFs would be closed 10 years after last disbursements, and their cash flows
distributed regularly over time to the VCFs owners, including ICICI which
would use part of the proceeds to repay the Bank subloan. The overall IRR
under quite conservative assumptions would be 16.7%, yielding a 21.7% IRR to
ICICI's equity investment after repayment of the Bank subloan.



Table 1: Representative Vonture Capital Proiects Financed by TOICI
(Ks Crores)
Projected                   TDICI Financing
Project Cost   Annual Sales    Std Loan   Condit Loan   Equity   Total
Product
Software                            0.92           1.06          0.30          0.8s         -      0.65
Biotechnology                       0.61           0.97            -           0.34       0.08     0.42
Automated Carments                  0.45           3.36            -           0.38       0.02     0.40
Pharmaceuticals                     0.77           3.66             -          0.58       0.10     0.88
Automotive Parts                   0.77            3.16            -           0.40       0.05     0.45
office Technology                  0.93            8.00            -           0.68       0.11     0.79
cheOic s                           1.00           5.08            -           1.00         -      1.00
Biotechnology                       1.90           9.00            -           1.10       0.3S     1.36
Chemicals                           n.a.           n.a.                                            1.60
Control Systems                     n.a.           n.a.                                            0.60
Telecoms Relays                     n.a.           n.s.                                            0.32
Software                            n.n.           n.s.                                            0.46
Medical Technology                  n.s.           n.s.                                            1.60
Metal Alloys                        n.e.           n.n.                                            1.60
Software                            n.s.           n.a.                                            0.40
Photovoltaics                       n.e.           n.a.                                            0.70
Tissue Cultures                     n.a.           n.e.                                            0.8S
Compressors                         n.e.           n.a.                                            0.68
Micro Electronic Circuits           n.n.           n.a.                                            1.30
CAD Software                        n.a.           n.a.                                            0.46
Fine Chemicals/Drugs                n.e.           n.a.                                            1.00
I F3 2
I-'%



Table 2: Financial Prolections for TDICI Venture Capital Funds
(Rs Crores)
Project Disbursement                                                      Assumptions
1990    1991    1992    1993
Amount  Amount  Amiunt  Amount                                      Failure Rate   Percentage Converted
Conventional Loan       1.8     5.3     7.8     6.1           Conventional Loans                 3%              S0%
Conditional Loans       4.3    11.6    17.9    13.8           Conditional Loans                 30%              S0%
Equity                  2.4     8.2    10.9     8.8           Equity                            30X
Total                   8.3    23.1    38.6    28.3           Conditional Loan Royalty                       8.0% of Sales
Equity    Disinvestment          100% in the 5th and 7th year
Dividend               0.0%                                       8
Price Fact            67.0X        2 original value
43.0%        8 original value
IRR_
Conventional Loan     23.7%
Conditional Loan      14.9%
Equity                 19.9%
Total Portfolio        18.7%
Equity Investors      21.7%
09 cr
X
0
..tI



ANNE 9
Table 2
-75                                                   Page 2 of 3
IINCDMIIL EIPE110ITUIE STNEMIIEI
-9,     I_2    IS9         14    1995    19I6    1997    1999    199        2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Interest Coav.Loaa
Lour Risk            0.22    o.       2.00    2.69    2.44    1.71    1.02    0.61    0.33    0.12    0.02
0.22    0.94    2.00    2.6t    2.44    1.71    1.02    0.61    0.33    0.12    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
Conditional Loan                       1.09    3.79    7.67    10.12   10.15    9.99    9.99    9.99    9.14    6.94    3.29    0.60
Cnvrt.Lns.-Div.                                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Realization                                           0.71    2.36    9.89   18.77   24.96    19.56    4.35
Orking.Cap,Fund       1.93    2.98    3.93    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94    2.94
at    12.5l
Equity
Dividends                                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Realization                                            1.92    4.92   14.49   20.08   27.24   15.78    2.91
0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.92    4.92   14.49   20.09   27.24    15.78    2.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
TOTAL INWHE           2.15    3.92    7.01    9.41    15.67   22.06   37.47   52.39   65.35    47.39   I.36    9.77    6.23    3.54
EXPENSES
lriteoffs
Conventional Loans
Lowr Risk                             0.05    0.16    0.23    0.18    0.05
Conditional Loans                      1.29    3.49 -  5.38    4.08    0.91
Equity                                 0.72    1.93    3.27    1.97    0.36
Total Writeoffs       0.00    0.00    2.05    5.50    9.89    6.23    1.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0u    0.00
Ad,inistrative Esp.    0.47    0.47    0.99    1.30    1.25    1.16    1.14    1.14    1.14    1.14    1.14    0.53    0.53    0.53
Nhnagent Fe           0.31    0.31    0.69    0.94    0.84    0.77    0.76    0.76    0.76    0.76    0.76    0.35    0.35    0.35
TOTAL EXPEISES        0.79    0.79    3.72    7.75    10.97    8.16    3.22    1.90    1.90    1.90    1.90    0.59        0.90    0.83
6ROSS PROFIT          1.36    3.04    3.29    1.66    4.70   13.90   34.25   50.49   63.45   45.49   17.46    9.89    5.34    2.o5
Profit Tax            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
NET PROFIT            '.36    3.04    3.29    1.66    4.70   13.90   34.25   50.41   63.45   45.49   17.46    9.89    5.34    2.65



ANNEX 9
Table 2
- 76-                                                          Page 3 of 3
SOLCES & USE OF FUNDS
1990    1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    1002    2003    2004
Eouity
tiDlE                 10.7?    19.10    28.14     8.44
vWold Bank             5.28     9.70    13.86     4.16
16.00    29.40    42.00    12.60
Wot Incoas              0.00     2.36     3.04     3.29     1.66     4.70    13.40    34.25    30.49    63.45    45.49    17.46   8.89     5.34     2.oS
Add
Oritooffs               0.00     0.00     0.00    2.05      5.50    6.89     6.23     1.32    0.00      0.V0     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Rspayunts
Conv*ntooaal Loans
Lomar Risk                                     0.31     1.19     2.18    2.b0    2.31    2.01       1.49     0.73    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total ktpayats          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.31     1.19    2.18    2.60k    2.31    2.01       1.49     0.73     0. 15    0.00    0.00    0.o0
TOTAL SOURCE           16.00    30.76    45.04    19.25     8.36    15.7    22.73    37.88    52.50    64.94    44.22    17.60    .8.9     1.'j4    2.65
USES
Conventional Loans
Lowa Risk              1.60     5.34     7.77     6.05     1.51                                                                  0.00     0.00     0.00
Coadittonal Loans       4.29    11.64    17.93    13.60     3.03
Equity                  2.40     6.17,   10.91    6.55      1.21
TOTAL DIRECT USES       8.29    23.15    36.61   26.21      5.75    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00
NET SOURCES OF FUNIDS    7.71    7.61    8.42   -7.96       2.61    15.76   22.73    37.88    52.50   64.94    46.22    17.60    8.89      5.44    2.b5
Dividuods/VEF Holders                                       2.61    15:76    22.73    37.88    52.50    64.94    46.22    17.60    8.89    5.34    26.16
Alloc.to Orking.Cap.    7.71     7.61    8.42   -7.96     0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00     v.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.30     0.00  -23.51
Orkmng.Cap.Fnd.
opening Balance         7.71    15.43   23.04    31.46    23.51    23.51   23.51    23.51    23.51    23.51    23.51    23.51    23.51    23.51   23.11
Accrul                  7.71     7.61    8.42   -7.96      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  -23.51
Closing balance        15.43    23.04    31.46   23.51   23.51    23.51   23.51    23.51    23.51    23.51    23.51   23.51    23.51    23.51    0.vO
Dividunds Distibutio.               -
WorM  Sank Repaymnts    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.93     2.64     5.08     5.82    5.92    5.82      5.82     5.92    S.OZ
Dividmnds-Loan Rapyt    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    2.61    15.76    21.79    35.24    47.41    59.12    40.41    11.79    3.08   -0.47    20.23
Loan Rapyt reserve      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   -11.72



ANNEX 10
-77 -
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CANBANK FINANCIAL SERVICES, LTD. (CANFINA)
1.       The parent institution, Canara Bank (CanBank), created in 1906 and
nationalized in 1969 with 13 other commercial banks, is currently the third
largest bank in India. By end 1988, it had a staff of 49,400, some 1,950
branches throughout India (and one in London), and total assets of Rs 13,060
crores (US$8.3 billion). Its outstanding features are its dynamism in
offering new services to its clients, a rapid growth, and high profit-
ability. Deposits increased 'rom Rs 4,325 crores in 1984 to Rs 9,340 crores
in March 1989 (+21% p.a.), ar.; its investment portfolio from Rs 1,235 crores
to Rs 3,068 crores (+25? p.a.) over the same reriod.  Its 1987 net profit of
Rs 45 crores, representing an 18X return on equity, was the largest of all
commercial banks.  Its audited accounts are summarized in Table 1.  CanBank
has participated ia two Ban projects for Export development; the results of
its involvement has been saLisfactory. 1/
2.       Canara Bank established in July 1987 a wholly-owned subsidiary,
CinBank Financial Services, Ltd. (CanFina), specialized in financial
services, merchant banking and leasing.  In its first year of operations, it
has become India's top manager of capital issues on the Stock Exchange (54
public issues).  Its net prefit of Rs 12.7 crores in 1988/89 represented a
55X return on equity, and permitted to serve a 18? dividend (see Table 1).
It set up in September 1988 an Industrial Consultancy Division of 12
professionals providing comprehensive services in project promotion,
management, research and training to industry. This Division, staffed with
experienced engineers and investment bankers, would be responsible for
managing CanFina's VCF of Rs 25 crores, to be funded initially for an amount
of Rs 10 crores.  CanFina has also approached CDC for an equity partic-
ipation of the latter in its VCF. The Bank's assistance of US$5.25 million
to CanBank would represent one-third of the VCF. CanFina's initial pipeline
of eight projects for venture capital financing would represent a total
investment of Rs 17.25 crores, of which Rs 3.2 crores for equity.
3.       Financial projections for CanBank's VCF are provided in the
attached Table 2. Disbursements would be made over 3 yars (1989-1991).
The VCF cash-flow would be distributed regularly over time to VCF owners,
including CanBank which would use part of the proceeds to repay the Bank
loan. The overall IRR under very conservative assumptions would be 14.8%,
yielding a 16? IRR on CanBank's equity investment after repayment of the
Bank loan-
1/ For more details on Can Bank's performance, See Annex IV of SAR
No. 7603-IN.



Tabl- 1: Synopsis of Csnara Bank Activities and Results
(in Re Crores)
1984       198S      1988      1987     1988e89
Summary Balance Sheet (before distribution):
Assets:  Investment Portfolio             1,235.1    1,498.5   2,163.6   2,722.2   3,068.8
Loans/Advances Portfolio        2,813.8    3,580.2   4,188.4   4,659.3   6,802.0
Cash and Deposits                 840.4      949.1   1,037.5   1,573.2   1,572.5
Other Assets                    1,197.4    1,609.9   1,968.7   1,943.8   2,622.7
Liabilities:  Capital and Reserves           656.      101.0     186.1     248.0     352.7
Deposits                   4,324.6    5,628.2   8,818.4   7,878.4   9,340.7
Borrowings                   716.6      939.8   1,192.5   1,496.3   1,656.9
Other Liabilities            991.1      948.7   1.141.1   1,276.8   1,816.9
Total Assets/Liabilities                   6,088.7    7,817.7   9,318.1  10,898.3  13,088.2
Summary Income Statement:
Income:  Interest Payments                 417.7      550.2      677.1    848.4   1,287.9
Other Income                       26.7       33.8       48.4      69.5      85.7
Total                           443.4       84. 0     723.6     907.9   1,363.6
Less:  Interest Paid                       292.1      391.0      493.3     615.7     925.9                              1
Salaries/Others                     145.8      182.0      212.0     247.2     872.8
Total Expenses                      437.9      573.0      705.3     882.9   1,298.7
Net Profit                                   5.6        11.0      18.2      46.0      64.9
As % of Equity                              10.0        11.0      11.0      18.1      16.8
CanBank Financial Services Ltd (CANFIN)
1987/88   1988/89                                     1987/88   1988/89
Balance Sheet:                                    Summary Income Statement:
Not Fixed Assets            12.1      66.6         Income:  Merchant Bkg           6.1      16.3
Othor Assqts                 4.7      43.7                  Other Income           1.8      13.5
Less: Expenditures              3.6       17.1
Capital/Reserves            12.0      22.9
Unsecured Loan               4.8      77.3        Net Profit                       3.2      12.7
Total Assets/Liabilittoe      16.8     100.2        Dividend (X)                    14.0      18.0
It0



Table 2: Financial Proiections for CanBank Venture Capital Fund
(Rs Millions)
Pro;ect Disbursement                                                        Assumptions
1989    1990    1991
Amount  Amount  Amount                                        Failure Rate   Percentage Convertod
Conventicnal Loan                                               Conventional Loans
High Risk         (8.671)       3.47    7.37    9.64            High Risk                        20X
Low Risk          (4.331)       1.73    3.68    4.76            Low Risk                         101               s0X
Income Note       (12.00S)       4.80   10.20   13.20           Income Notes                      30X               s0X
Conditional Loan (16.00%)        6.00   12.76   18.60           Conditional Loan                  40X               s0X
Equity            (680OOX)      24.00   51.00   68.00           Equity                            40X
Total                           40.00   86.00  110.00            Income Note Royalty                           2.60X of Sales
Conditional Loan Royalty                      6.001 of Sales
Incomo Note Interest Floor                   6.00e
Equity    Disinvestment           100% in the 7th yoar
Dividend               12.0X from Year 6
Price Fact             40X          7 original value
8OX         3 original value
IRRs
(Pro-Tax and Pre-Exp. for Each Instrument)
High Risk Conventional Loan       20.01
Lower Risk Conventional Loan    21 .6
Income Note                       18.3X
Conditional Loan                  14.3X
Equity                            17.11
Total Portfolio                   15.3X
Equity Investors                  21.81
00 a,
o  o



ANNEX 10
Table 2
-o0-                                                               Page 2 of3
IKCW I EIPENSITIDE STATEENT
1990     0991     1992     199      19        W99      1996     199      1991     1999     200      2001    2002       2003    2')04     2005
laterest Caav.Lwe
Rioh Risk              0.22     0.69      1.30     2.93     2.39     1.57     1.40      1.06     0.75     0.42     0. 15
Lowu Risk              0. 09    0.29     0.55      1.49     0.13     0.62     0.50     0.39      0.27     0.05     0. 06
0.32     0.9"     1.35    4.47      3.52      2.20     1.91     1.46     1.02     0.53     0.21    0.00      0.00o    0.00      0.0o0   .00
Jacome Note
Intterst               0.20     0.63     1.13s    1.LZ      0.95     0. be    0.52     0.36     0.20     0.07      0.00
Royalty                                                              0.31     2.52     4.74      4.74     4.74     4.74     4.74     4.74     4.74     3.93     2.22
0.20     0.63     0.03     1.02     O.95      1.49     3.04     5.00     4.94     4.61     4.74      4.74     4.74     4.14     3.93     2.22
Canditional Loan                                             1.30     4.05     7.61    71.61      7.60     7.60     7.61    7.61      7.60     7.oI     o.32     3.56
CovrU.ns.-Div.                             0.00     0.00     0.43     1.33     2.51     2.08      1.07     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0. U(    0.00
C&P.Iains                                                                  19.71    40.33    54.20
liking.Cap.Fund         0.00     0.19      0.89     0.30     0.81     0.91     0.30      0.61     0.61     0.91     0.01     0.91     0.31l    0.81     0.91     0.31
at        el
Equity
Oivsdscds                                                   1.73     5.40    10.05     3.42      4.75     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Capotul gains                                               0.00     0.00    66.24   140.76   192.16      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
0.00  0.0  0.00     0.00      I. 73    0.0     763      49.1O 96.i         00         .o      00        .0      00        .0      0
TOTAL 19000             0.52      0.30    3.92      6.40     8.73    15.29   111.9   208.14   256.69    13.31    o:.37    13.16    13.16    13.16    11.06       6.59
EXPENSES
Wr1t..ffs
Conventional Loans
HIhgk Risk                               0.69      0.47     1.91
Louar Risk                               0.17     0.37      0.48
Income Not"e                              1.44     3.06      3.96
ConditionAl Loas                            2.4      5.0      6.6 
Equitv                                     9.60    20.40    26.40
Total Writeoffs         0.00     0.00    14.31    30.40    39.34      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00j    0.00     0.00     0.00     4J.00    V.6,
Administrative Fee      1.39     1.83      3.31     2.95     2.26     2.26     2.26     2.26     2.26     0.53      0.53     0.53     0.53     0.53     0.13    0.53
Wnanqemat Fee           1.25      1.25    2.21      1.90     1.50     1.51     1.51      0.51     1.50     0.35     0.35     0.35     0.35     0.35     0.35      .5
TOTAL EVPENSE           3.13     3.13    19.32    35.16    43.12      3.77     3.77     3.77     3.77     0.33      0.38     0.93     0.33     0.38     0.33      SO.
GROS PROFIT            -2.61    -1.32   -15.90   -29.76   -34.39    11.50   109.20   204.37   252.91    ii.93    12.49    02.23    02.29    02.23    10.18       5.71
Profit Tax              0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0O     0.00     0.00      MOv    v. vo
MET PROFIT             -2.61    -1.32   -I5.9   -29.76   -34.39    10.51   009.21   204.37   252.91    12.93    12.49    12.28    12.28    12.23    10.18    !.-,I



ANNEX 10
Table2
- 81-                                                                 Page 3 of 3
S1C    I USES SOF FMS
1919    I9       1991      9m     1993    1 191995            996    1997    39;3    1999    2000    20v3    2002    2003    2004    2005
Equaty
Cull                     30       *0       80
IblE bnt                 10       30      40
4        0      120
t l taco.               0.00   -2.61   -3.32   -15.90   -22.76   -34.39    11.51   108.21   204.37  252.91    12.93    12.49   12.23    12.21    12.28    11.18    5.71
Mi
riteffs                 0.00     0.00    0.0   14.S3    30.40    39.34
R"0nayts
Cmne.tiosal Lons
Hip Risk                                      0.00     0.00     0.28     0.87    1.63     1.u3     1.63     1.35    0.76    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    O.iO
Logr Rji                                      0.11     0.35    0.65    0.65    0.65       0.65    0.65      0.54    0.31     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
Incon lNotu                                      0.56     1.64    2.94    2.63      2.63    2.63      2.18     1.23    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Rtikuyts          0.00     0.00    0.00     0.67     I.99    3.87     4.15     4.92    4.92      4.47    3.13     1.07    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
TOTAL SWURES           40.00   87.39   118.68   -0.92      3.63    8.83    15.66   313.13  209.2R   257.37    16.06    13.56    12.23    12.2E    12.28   10.18    5.71
Coventiollul Wss
Hio  Risk              3.47     7.37     9.54
Lower Risk             1.73     3.60    4.76
Incom  ot"               4.8    10.2    13.2
Condittonal Loann          6    12.75     I6.5
E4uty                  24.00   51.00   66.00
TOTAL  IREt USES       40.00   85.00   110.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0-00       0-00    0-00    0.00    0.-0       0-00     0-00
T7 S8UltES OF FUIDS    0.00      2.39    O.8    -0.92      3.63    8.83    15.66   113.13  209.28  257.37    16.06    13.56    12.28   12.28    12.28    10.18    5.71
videadsadlF Molders                                        3.63    8.83   135.66   33.13  209.28  257.37    16.06   13.56    12.28    12.23    12.2d    10.18    15.87
Alloc.to Nrkiq.Cap.    0.00      2.39    8.6    -0.92      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.0     0.00    0.0
rtirkng.Ca.Pd.
iOetnit Balance         0.00     0.00    2.39    33.07    10.15    10.15   10.15    10.35    10.35   10.15   10.15   10.35   00.15   10.35    30.35    Is.15    10.35
kcrual                  0.00     2.39    8.68   -0.92      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.o0    0.00  -30.15
Closing Blance          0.00     2.39    11.07    10.15    10.15    10.15   10.15   10.15   10.15   10.15   10.15   30.35    10.35    10.15   10.15   IQ15.
Davndeds Distribution
Iorld Bank Re,nts    0.00        0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0          .00    0.00  ).00    0.00    0,0 0  '.00
Dividdanids-Lon Rtpyt    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      3.63    8.83    15.66  II3.13   209.20  257.37    16.06   13.56    12.28    12.21    12.28    10.18    15.87
Loan R__yt rsur         0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0. 00    0.00     v. W 0J  .00



ANNEX 11
Page 1
- 82 -
IIDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Andhra Pradesh Industrial Development Corgoratin (APIDC)
1.       APIDC, established in 1960, is one of the 26 State Industrial
Development Corporations (SIDCs) owned by the State Governments and created
as autonomous corporations to promote large and medium-scale industries and
provide financial assistance and other :_acilities in their respective
states.
2.       To achieve these objectives, APIDC has fulfilled a number of
functions and services, with the focus on:
- project promotion (project ideas, project evaluation, admin-
istration of State incentive schemes) and "escort" services to
enterprises (licenses, clearances and infrastructure facilities
from Government authorities); and
- financial assistance, either loans under the IDBI refinance
schemes for term loans and seed capital, 1/ or equity
participation in joint and private sector projects.
3.       Before 1980 when the IDBI loan refinance scheme was introduced,
equity investments were the dominant activity of APIDC (60% of its assets).
APIDC has invested in 526 medium/large scale induF_..es; of the 380 units in
production by March 1988, 320 were in the private sector and 57 in the joint
sector. About 45% of the assisted units are operating in technology-
oriented subsectors (engineering, electronics, chemicals, pharmaceuticals).
The equity investment portfolio by March 1988 totalled about Rs 64 crores at
book value (about Rs 80 crores at market value)   APIDC's primary objective
in its past equity investments was promotion of industrial investments,
rather than profit maximization. Nevertheless, its investment portfolio has
been profitable and generating substantial profits.
4.       APIDC's financial situation, as summarized in Table 1, is satis-
factory. A substantial part of its income (one-third on average) has come
from its equity investments, in the form of dividends and primarily capital
gains made on disinvestments, an activity where APIDC has gained a
substantial experience.  Some of its past investmer   earned large capital
gains and dividends, totalling over the years 7 to 4 times its original
investment. The yield on the investment portfolio averaged about 7% in
recent years, except in 1986/87 when a slow-down in disinvestments resulted
in a small loss in the Corporation's profit and loss statement.
/ Term loans up to Rs 0.9 crores per project repayable with an interest
of 14% p.a. (12 1/2% p.a. in backward areas). Seed capital assistance
to encourage 1st generation entrepreneurs, professionals and
Continued on next page



ANNEX 11
Page 2
- 83 -
5.       The past experience of APIDC in promoting and investing in a large
number of medium-scale technology-oriented projects 2/ (see Table 2) and the
large and diversified technological base of Research Institutes in Andhra
Pradesh, provide a sound basis for the Corporation's plan to establish a
Venture Capital Fund oriented towards technology-innovative projects.  APIDC
has already a pipeline of eight such projects being considered for venture
capital financing, with total investment needs of Rs 10 crore. To this end,
APIDC established in April 1989 in consultation with the Bank a subsidiary,
APIDC Venture Capital, Ltd., which will specialize in managing VCFs. Its
initial responsibility will be to manage APIDC's first VCF of Rs 13.5 crores
(US$9 million), to be launched under the project with Bank financing to
APIDC for US$3 million and possible equity participations from Indian
corporations, ADB and COC.
6.       The attached Table 3 provides the financial projections of APIDC's
VCF. Disbursements would be made over 3 years (1989-1991). The generated
cash-flow would also be distributed regularly over time. The overall IRR
under quite conservative assumptions would be 15.4%, yielding a 17% IRR on
APIDC's equity investment after repayment of the Bank's subloan.
Continued from previous page
scientists, in the form of equity or loans at 1% interest up to Rs 0.15
crores for small projects with a total cost below Rs 3 crores.
2.1 About 20% of these projects were successful and yielded good capital
gains and dividends, another 40% have yielded average results and
dividends, and the last 40% have been failures.



- 84 -                                 ANNEX 11
Table 1
Table 1:  Synopsis Table of APIDC Activities and Results
(Rs Crores)
1980-81    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88
1. Financial Activities
Approvals:  Equity Invests           12.2         8.5         2.3        1.4        14.9
Term Loans              16.2        41.5        21.3       25.3        30.1
Seed Capital             0.2         2.9         2.8        2.2         1.5
Disbursements:  Equity Invests        5.2         6.6         6.2        3.5         5.2
Term Loans           5.0        15.6       31.6        19.7        21.0
Seed Capital         0.2         1.9        1.7         2.1         1.3
1984-85    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88
2. Summary Balance Sheet
Assets:  Net Fixed Assets                         1.0         1.0        0.9         0.9
Investment Portfolio                   49.0        56.7        59.5       63.9
Loan Portfolio                         70.2        95.5       111.1      126.9
Net Current Assets                      0.1         0.4         0.3        0.3
Liabilities:  Share Capital                      51.4       56.4        61.5        65.0
Reserves/Surplus                   7.6         7.9        7.0         8.8
Outstanding Debt                  61.3       89.4       103.3       118.2
Total Assets/Liabilities                        120.3      153.6       171.8       192.0
1984-85    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88
3. Summary Income Statement
Income:  Dividends                                1.0        0.9         1.7         1.2
Capital Gains                           2.6         2.8         0.2        3.1
Interest Received                       2.2         4.8        6.5         8.1
Others Income                           0.3         0.4         0.4        0.3
Less:    Interest Plaid                           4.5         6.7        7.9         9.4
Others/Adjustments                      0.3         1.3         1.7        1.4
Gross Profit                                      1.3         0.9       (0.8)        1.9
Net Profit (After Tax)                            0.8         0.3       (0.9)       N.A.
Return/Investment                                 8.1         6.9        3.2         6.9
Portfolio (Z)



Table 2: Selected Industries Promoted by APIDC Using Indigenous Technology
A P I D C's
Year of                                                                  Participation
Sl. No.      Investment           Product                        Project Cost        Equity  Term Loan      Present Status
(Rs. in Lakhs)
1.        1967-68       Sodium Metal                              73.70             8.38    21.47        Highly Successful
2.        1975-76       Hydraezine Hydrate                        83.43             4.00     6.00        Highly Successful
3.        1976-77       Monochloro Acetic Acid                    39.55            10.77    44.72        Problematic
4.        1977-78       Alkyl Amines                             204.07            19.74    79.96        Problematic
5,        1978-79       Antibiotics                              298.18             9.00    60.00        Problematic
6.        1978-79       Drugs and Formulations                   194.85            10.05    68.00        HJ9hly Successful  i
7.        1981-82       Indl. Laminates                           95.74             6.22    41.00        Problematic          C
8.           1982       Active Carbons                            68.00             4.50    15.80        Not Satisfactory
9.           1982       Theophylline. Aminophylline...           251.62            15.00    89.13        Satisfactory
10.           1982       Sulphamethoxazole                        105.78             3.20    40.52        Not Satisfactory
11.        1982-83       Alcohol from Tapioca                     140.C0             4.82    56.68        Satisfactory
12.        1982-83       Sodium/Potassium Chlorate                140.00            11.00    60.00        Successful
13.        1982-83       Formic Acid                              178.00            13.90    80.30        Problematic
14.        1982-83       Yeast                                    184.30             5.75    53.00        Problematic
15.        1982-84       CNC Machines                             130.00             7.80    89.76        Satisfactory
16.           1983       Lactic Acid                              205.01             8.97    90.00        Problematic
17.           1983       Chloroquine-di-Phosphate                 105.78             3.20    40.52        Satisfactory
18.           1984       Methyldopa                               153.76            10.63    72.51        Satisfactory
19.           1984       Iso Syrup                                 95.00             4.10    37.20        Not Satisfactory
20.           1984       Salburamol/Beta, Methazone               251.62            15.00    89.13        Satisfactory
21.           1984       Tinidazole                               130.25             4.00    56.80        Satisfactory
22.           1984       Basic Drugs                              127.75             3.66    55.16        Satisfactory
23.           1985       Liquid Glucose                           198.00              -      90.00        Satisfactory
rii



Table 3: Financial Proiections for APIDC's Venture Cap;tal Funds
(Re Millions)
Project Disbursement                                                     Assumptions
1989    1990    1991
Amu-nt  Aut  Amount                                         Failure Rate   Percentage Converted
Conventional Loan (25.00%)      6.76   10.76   13.26          Conventional Loans               265               60X
Equity            (76.00%)    26.26   32.26   39.76           Equity                           40X
Total                          36.00   43.00   63.00
Interest Rate               1st a Yaosr           Thereon
Conventional Loans               19X               19X
Eoult    Disinvestment          10OX in the 7th year
Dividend               17.5X from Year C
Price Fact             60X         6 original volue                O
50X         3 original volue
IRRs
(Pro-Tax and Pre-Exp. for Each Instrument)
Conventional Loan                21.1X
Equity                           17.4X
Total Portfolio                  16.4%
Equity Investors                 17.0X
soll



ANNEX 11
-87-                                                                Table 3
Page 2 of 3
IKOIE I EUITII9    E RIATEHET
19W      1991     199       199      1994      1995     1996     1997      1991     199      2000    '2009      2002      13 2v      o4 2..O 005
I4trsrft conv.Lan
1.25     2.11     4.67      3.95     2.99      1.71     1.36     1.05       .19     0.38     0.13
9.25     2.78     4.67     3.95      2.99     9.79      9.33     1.05     0,11      0.38     0.93      0.0   0   .00     0.00      0.00     ;).wj
Cnvtt.Lns.-Div.                             v.00     0.00     0.57      1.218    2.95      1.58     0.87     v.00      0.00     V.0(,    0.00      V.w      O.wg    Vv.o
C&P.Gaaais                                                                   14.17    10.14    22.36
Irking.Cip.Fufid         0.00     0.99     0.41      0.65     0.65      0.65     0.65     0.65      0.65     0.65     0.65      0.65     0.65      0.65     0.65     0.65
at       122
equity
Dividgndr.                                                   2.76      6.14    10.32     7.5*      4.97     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Capital Bains                                                0.00      0.00    10.98    87.03   107.33      0.00      MO0    0.00       0.00  ~.0.0        0.00     0.oO
0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     2.76      6.94    81.19    94.e4   111.50      0.00      '00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
TOTAL I8001              1.25     2.89     5.08      4.61     6.98      9.79   100.14   116.-5   136.09      1.03       .79     0.65     0.65     0.65      0.65     0.65
EXPENISES
Vritsof4s
Cc*vuntaonal Loans
2.19     2.69     3.31
Equity                                     10.50    12.90    15.90
Total  nriteefOs        0.00o    0.00    12.69    15.59    19.21       0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00 vi .00        0. 00    U. 00     0.00     0.i)o
Adainzstrative Feet      9.56     1.56     2.37      2.05     1.67      1.67     1.67     1.67      1.67     0.00     0.00      0.00     0. 00    0.00      0.00     .;.
Hoegaqmnt Fees           0.73     0.78     9.13      1.03     0.84     0.84      0.84     0.84      l.a.     0.6!     v.34      L'.00    0. &0    0.jO      00)00
TOTAL EIPEKSES           2.34     2.34    16.24    18.67    21.72      2.59      2.51     2.59     2.59      0.o1     0.34      v.00     0.00     0.60     0. C00     .'
GODlSS PROFIT           -9.09     0.55   l11.1A   -14.06   '14.74      7.26    97.63   913.55   933.59       0.42     0.45      0.65     0.65     0. o5    -.65*    0.*5
Profit Tax               0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    35.74   *o,.94    78.47   -bb.38   -39.59  -100.59        0.36     0.36     O.:*      ).30
NET PROFIT              -1.09     0.55   -11.16   -14.06   -14.714     7.28    69.90    49.60    5!.92    66.9       82.04   101.16      0.2,9    0.29     0.:9       2



ANNEX 1.
-88-
Page 3 of 3
MMc     I t0s w FMl
1919    19w      5990    1992    199      1994    099       1994    1997    1911     1919   :oo       2(I)   2002    1'Yv3    2004    :oos
Equity
001K                  23.45   30.15   34.35
Merleha              11453   14.35   11.15
35      45       55
Not lucia              0.00   -1.09    0.55  -11.14  -14.04  -14.74    7.23   61.90   4S.40   53.12   64.60   32.04  101.14    0.29    0.29    0,29    0.219
Irateeffs              0.00    0.00    0.00   12.49    15.59      9.21I
Cuvuetima Loss
0.47    1.04    1.75    1. 75    1.75    t. 75    1.75    1.29    0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0..%0
Total Rsyaymts         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.47    1.04    1.75    1.15         1.75s    1.75    1.75    1.29    0.71    0.00    t.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
toTAL. SAumE          35.00   43.91   55. 55    2.00    2.57    6.22    9.04   63.65   50. 34   56.397   69.00    32.75   101.14    0.29    0.29    0.49    0.279
Conventional Lou'
3.75   10.1! 3.
EquIty                26.25   32.25   39.75
TOTAL DIECT USES      35.00   43.00   53.00    0.00    0.00O    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.,00
WT SOIICES OF FM13     0.00    0.91    2.35    2.00    2.57    4.22    9.04   43.65   50.36   56.87    68.03   92.15   101.16    0.29    0.219    0.29    0.29
OivjftWs/IK) Holders                                      2.57    4.22    9.04   61. 65   50.36   56.67   68.03   92.75  101.16    0. 29    0.29    0.29    5.717
Aloc.to orking.Car.    0.00    0.91    2.55    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0..0    0.00
0puInin edifce         0.00    0.00    0.91    3.45    5.46    5.44    5.46    5.46    5.46    5.46    5. 46    5.44    5.46    5.46    5.46    5.46    5.4.
kccroal                0.00    0.91    2.55    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0.)   0.00    0.Ou    -5.4,)
Closting llasc.        0.00    0.91    3.45    5.44    5.44    5.46    5.46    5.46    5.46    5.44    5.46    5.40    5.46    5.46    5.4a    5.46    0. j;
Dlvia44u4 Diutrlhatlu
vwld lank R.9)Aitu    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.43    9.99   16.47   15.53   14.59    13.64   12.70   11.76   113.42    9.09a    6.40
liviaiuds-,.oa  kw,    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.57    6.22    0.56   53.0    33.39   41,34   53.50   69.10   08.46  -11.46  -lv,.32   9.39.    -1. 1
Loan lupyt r.suv       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.0  0   .00    0.00    0.00    0.00  -28.21    0. 09    0. -J   -J. 0           0.-.O



ANNEX 12
-89 -
GUJARAT INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CORPORATION (GIIC)
1.       GIIC, created in 1968, is another successful and profitable SIDC.
The objectives, functions and services which it fulfills are quite similar
to APIDC's (see Annex 11). It acts as a financier by extending loans to
private sector projects, and promotes joint/associate sector projects
through equity support to those projects where private entrepreneurs are
shy to come forward because of high risks or long gestation period. Its
Board of nine members includes four prominent industrialists.
2.       GIIC's financial situation is satisfactory, as shown in GIIC's
financial summary (see Table 1). The bulk of its activities has been in
lending. Cumulative loan approvals, to about 2,800 units, totalled Rs 430
crores by March 1988, and disbursements Rs 275 crores. The outstanding
loan portfolio (Rs 180 crores by March 1988) represents 90Z of the
Corporation's total assets.
3.       GIIC has also invested in some 66 medium/large scale industries,
of which 27 are in production, for equity participation totalling Rs 17.6
crores by March 1988. Large investments in recent years increased the
equity portfolio to Rs 50.2 crores by March 1989. A majority of the
Corporation's investments are in heavy and technology-intensive industries
(e.g., petrochemicals, bulk chemicals, drugs, oil exploration equipment,
power generation equipment, cement), along with some investments in
electronic industries and automotive components. The return on the
investment portfolio has averaged about 92 in recent years, coming
essentially from dividends. In 1986/87, large capital gains made on
disinvestment of shares in 3 companies boosted the return on the portfolio
to 33Z.
4.       With its business-oriented culture and the dynamism of Gujarat
entrepreneurs, GIIC is keen to establish and develop in-house Venture
Capital activities. It is about to create a VCF of Rs 24 crores (US$16
million) to finance technology-innovative projects in its traditional areas
of investment (chemicals, drugs, electronics, engineering industries). The
limited but performing experience of GIIC and its efficient and business-
like management justifies a Bank subloan of US$5.25 million, to be invested
by r  8 in its VCF.  Other VCF investors being approached by GIIC would
inclut, a number of Gujarat corporations, and possibly CDC.
5.       Dis1ursements of the VCF funds would spread over the period
1989-1991 (see attached Table 2). Again, the generated cash-flow would be
distributed upon its generation, in order to benefit from tax exemption.
The overall IRR under very conservative assumptions would be 15.72,
yielding a 22.8X IRR on GIIC's equity investment after repayment of the
Bank's subloan.



- 90 -                             ANNEX 12
Table 1
Table 1: Synopsis Table of GIIC Activities and Results
(Rs Crores)
1984-85    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88
1. Financial Activities
Approvals:  Equity Invests               1.5         6.1         1.6       29.9
Term Loans                 41.1        54.2        57.1        65.8
Seed Capital                0.25        0.50        0.38        0.10
Disbursements:  Equity Invests           9.4        10.4        14.3       14.8
Term Loans             25.5        33.9        46.4       46.5
Seed Capital            0.37        0.27        0.13       0.33
2. Summary Balance Sheet
Assets:  Net Fixed Assets                0.4         0.4         0.5         0.6
Equity Investments             10.7       17.1        17.6        50.2
Loan Portfolio                115.0      140.5       181.6       192.5
Net Current Assets             10.6       11.8         9.2         2.1
Liabilities,  Share Capital             16.0        18.0        30.0        40.0
Reserves/Surplus          2.2         2.6         3.6         4.2
Outstanding Debt        118.5       147.3       173.6      201.1
Total Assets/Liabilities               136.7       169.8       208.9      245.3
J:s====~~~~~~~~~~ ===  =3 ==   ===
3. Summary Income Statement
Income:  Dividends                       0.9         1.0         1.1        1.0
Capital Gains                   ...        0.6         4.8         0.9
Interest Received             10.7        13.2        15.9        19.6
Other Income                    0.6        0.6          -          1.3
Less:    Interest Paid                   8.4        11.1        13.6       17.1
Write-Offs                      1.2        1.0         4.6         1.7
Others                          2.3        2.4         2.8         3.0
Gross Profit                             0.3         0.9         0.8        1.0
Net Profit (Afte-r Tax)                  0.3         0.8         0.8         0.9
Return/Investment                        8.'         9.4        33.4        3.8
Portfolio (Z)



Table 2: Financial Projections for CIIC's Venture Capital Funds
(Rs Millions)
Project Disbursement                                                    Assumptions
1989    1990    1991
Amount  Amount Amount                                      Failuro Rate   Percentage Converted
Conventional Loan (20.00X)    14.00   16.00   17.00         Conventional Loans               265              WSO
Income Note       (20.00X)    14.00   16.00   17.00         Income Notes                     265              50X
Conditional Loan  (10.00X)     7.00    7.50    8.60         Conditional Loan                 501              60X
Equity            (60.00)    35.00   3760  42.50           Equity                           60X
Total                         70.00   76.00   86.00
Interost Rato              1st 3 Years          Thereon
Conventional Loans               8X              201
Incor4oe Moto Royalty                       2.60X of Sales               0
Conditional Loan Royalty                    5.001 of Sales
Incomo Noto Intorest Floor                  8.00X
Equ&it    Disinvestment         1001 in the 7th yoae
Dividend              12.0X from Year S
Price Fact            40X         9 original value
60e         3 original value
IRRs
(Pre-Tax and Pre-Exp. for Each Instrumont)
Conventional Loan               20.11
Income Noto                     21.91
Conditional Loans               12.81
Equity                          16.65
Total Portfolio                 16.7X
Equity Invostors                22.8X
WI



ANNE 12
-92                                                                 Page 2 of 3
INCO & EIDEMITURE STATE4ENT
1990    1991  199    1I9       1994     199     3994    1991      199      I999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Interest coev.Loam
Lowa Risk             0.64     1.74    2.74    5.70    4.24        2.30    2.00     1.51     1.02     0.53     0.28
0.34     1.74    2.74     5.70     4.26     2.50    2.00)    1.51     1.02    0.53      0.18    0.00    ').        (1.00    0.00    0.00
ltetrest              0.84     1.74    2.74      2.48     2.07     3.30    3.12     0. ?b    0.39    (0.14    0.00
loyalty                                                            2.52    5.22,    8.28     9.8 0.29 9.8      e.28     8.289    8.28    8.22     5.76    3 . 016
0.84     1.74    2.74     2.49     2.07     4.',2    4.35    9.04     8.67     9.42     8.20    9.28      8.28    8.28     5.76      .ob
Couditaioal Loan                                           0.s4     1.74    2.74     2.76    2.76    2.76    2.74    2.14    2.76    2.76    1.92    2.02
Cayrt.Lne.-Div.                          0.00     0.00     0.97     2.00    3.21     2.21    2.27      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      (. 00    0.00     0.00
CaP.Salls                                                               53.55    57.38    65.03
at      In1
Equity
Oaviduds                                                  2.10     4.33    6.90     4.90     2.55     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
Capital lan                                               0.00    0.00    94.50   101.25   114.75    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      2.10     4.35   101.40   106.03   117.30    0.00      M.O    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
TCTAL. IKCOI           1.48     3.74     4.33     9.32    11.38    35.74   170.28   180.08   197.09    12.84    12.34    12.18   32.18    12.18    9.92    5.22
Nrit"of,s
Cosauotioal Loan
Lowa Risk                               3.50     3.75     4.25
Income Not"n                              3.5    3.75      4.25
Conditional Loans                         3.5    3.75      4.25
Equity                                 17.50    19.75   21.25
Total brit.ofhs        0.00     0.00    28.00    30.00    34.00     0.00    0.00      MO0   0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    O).       u.
Adirnistrative Fm      2.9      2.90     4.04     3.44     2.76    2.76    2.74      2.76     2.76    0.46    0.44      0.44     0.46     0.46    0.04     0.4k
Rhaagu.nt Fm           1.45     1.45    2.02      1.72     2.8 .39      1. 28 .3     2.38     1.38    0.23     0.23     0.23    0.23      0.23    0.23     0.23
TOTAL EUPENSE          4.35     4.35    34.04    35.16    38.14    4.14    4.14    4.14    4.14    0.69         0. n9   0.69    0.49      0.n9    0.69     v.49
GM09  PROFIT          -2.47    -0.39   -27.73  -25.84   -26.76    11.40   164.24   15.94   192.95    12.13   11.47    11.49    11.49    11.49    8.23      4.53
Profit Tun             0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     p.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.I30    0.0N0    1. 0
NET PROFIT            -2.47    -0.59   -27.73  -25.04  -26.74    11.60  16*.24   175.94   192.95    12.25    12.47    31.49    11.49    11.49    8.13      4.534



ANNEX 12
Table 2
93                                                                Page 3 of 3
1009    9mo       99     1192     53       m994    1m       tn      199      it"     It9    2(00    200        2002    2003    2004    2*
Eqiuty
lilt                    44       12       42
Ov i1nk                  24      26       26
70      it       94
m  lacmt               0.00   -2.47    0.19   -27.13  -;.14  -26 7t   Il.40   144.24   111.94   192."    12.11 15.67   11.49   11.4     15.49    e.u3    4.n
am
WritOfas               0.00    0.00    0.00  2n.00    30.00   34.00
RCoa tipe t  Laws
Lowar ist                                    0.7n     1.5.    2.44     2.44    2.44    2.4        .44    1.71    0.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    o.0o    0.0
facce" met"                                     5.?      3.29    5.03    4.40    4.s0    4.40    9.20       1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total tWAYus           0.00    0.00    0.00    2.M0      4.63    7.49    1.04      7.04    T.0M     1.s      3.41    0.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
TOTAL 109             70.00   77.33   S.41    2.77    O.99    14.73   56.67  173.30  503.01  19I.41    13.57   12.1          I U.4    51.4   1.9    3.13    4.53
Cuauto   I Lan
LOe   tki             14.00   15.00   17.00
Incz   Mtn               14       15      IT
Coeitziaal Lb2            7      7.1      3.5
Equt                   31.00    37.50   42L50
1TOTA  DIRECt U3      70.00   71.00   59.00    0.00    0.00    o.:         .-o00    0.00    0.00    0.0.)    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
NET SOIEI OF FUNS      0.00    2.33    4.41    2.77    0.99   14.73   10.47  I57.3   103.01  196.41    11.57   12.51  I.4    II.4    11.49    8.13    4.51
D0vileue4v F mldws                                        0.9"    14.73    16.47  173.30   163.01   193.41    1.17   12.9    11.49   11.4    11.49    0.1i   14.04
Allac.te lrkin.Cq.    0.00    2.33    4.41       2.fl    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
irki.Cap.Fo.d
Owaing  almae          0.00    0.00    2.33       .74     9.51    9.11    9.51    9.51    9.11      9.51    9.11    9.51    9.51    9.51    9.*1    9.51 5      Lt
kcruul                 0.00    2.33    4.41    2.77       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0. 0        0.00    -;.00    0.00   -b.1
Closin SalaMi          0.00    2.33    4.74    9.51    9.11    9.51    9.51    9.51    9.11    9.51    9.51    9.11    9.51    9.51    9.51    9.51    O.0
Oieudus Distributio
Huld bak bpwit         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0
6iv1daaguLtc  Reyt    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    B.9    14.73   16.41   573.30   163.01  193.41    11.17    12.9I  11.41   15.49   15.4           8.13   14. Y
Loan R"t ruwus         0.00    0.0      0.0      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5
Technology Institutes and Subnroiects
1.       This annex is intended to supplement the information provided in the
text concerning the four CSIR institutes (para. 5.16) and their subprojects,
since they were described only briefly in the text. What is presented here is
intended to be illustrative of the TI subcomponent. Further information and
analysis of the four institutes and subprojects is available in the project
file as well as supplemental information on BIS and SIIR.
National Chemical Laboratory (NCL)
2.       NCL, set up in Puna in 1950, has a staff of 1,100, including 360
scientists and engineers, and an annual expenditure of Rs 70 million. NCL has
major R&D programs in catalysis, polymers, drugs, analytical chemistry and
process development. NCL is reputed for its excellence in basic research and
many of its scientists are internationally recognized. It has also succeeded,
in some well known cases in catalysis and polymers, to commercialize its
research results. More recently, NCL has increased its sponsored research
program with industry. NCL has a 15-year-old technology management group
responsible for marketing, licensing, patents, transfer of NCL technology as
well as managing sponsored programs with industry. A key constraint to
industry's use of NCL is the lack of confidence in being able to apply NCL
technology on a commercial scale. With that limitation in mn'nd, NCL proposes
to establish a multipurpose pilot plant for developing and testing catalysts
beyond the laboratory scale and a multipurpose pilot plant for developing new
polymer materials, such as engineering plastics, and new processes for polymer
production. It has also proposed to do the same for organic chemistry, which
will be subject to subsequent ICICI appraisal. bh;ilding on the reputation of
NCL's excellent research staff and initial commercial success in the catalysis
and polymer areas, the pilot plants will strengthen the institute's ability to
attract more sponsored R&D from large chemical and petrochemical companies
including multinational corporations. NCL also proposed to improve its
management system and to strengthen its technology management group. NCL has
already made significant progress in increasing its cost coverage from below
20% to 27% in i987/88. With the efforts noted above, NCL expects to continue
increasing its revenue generation and its cost recovery ratio to about 50% in
1994/95.
3.       Performance Indicators.  NCL would be expected to achieve the
following milestones.



t                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 13
Page 2
Table 1: INDIA--NCL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
87/88   89/90  90/91   92/93   94/95
Sponsored R&D and consultine
No. of contracts                   110      121    124      126      129
Value (Rs million)                  15       20     22       31       42
TecInology licensing
No. of tech. licensed                2        7     15       18       18
Income (Rs  million)                 1        4      6      11        19
Income as % of recurrent
expenses                            27       33     36      43        50
Specific indicators and implementation milestones for catalysis, polymers and
organic chemistry groups are summarized in the Project File.
4.       Sub2roiect Cost and Finaneing.  To implement the institutional
strategy plan, NCL anticipates a capital investment requirement of Rs 168
million during the three year period starting 1990. The World Bank loan of
US$5.5 million (Rs 89 million 53% of total cost) will finance the equipment
purchases of the pilot plant facilities for catalysis, polymer and organic
chemistry groups. The balance will be financed bv UNDP (15%) and CSIR (32%).
The detailed equipment list for Bank financing is summarized in the project
file. The base costs of the equipment are estimated by NCL with available
information. A five percent physical contingency is added. According to the
project implementation schedule provided by NCL, price contingencies are
calculated based on the Bank's projection of domestic and international
inflation rates. The tentative allocation of Bank funds is summarized in the
following table:
Table 2: NCL SUBPROJECT COST
Foreign      Domestic       Total
Equipment                                0.8          0.5           1.3
Catalysts                             1.2           0.8           2.0
Polymers                              0.9           0.6           1.5
Organic Chemistry                      2.9          1.9           4.8
Base Cost
Physical Contingencies                   0.1          0.1           0.2
Price Contingencies                      0.3          0.3           0.6
Project Cost                             3.3          2.3           5.6



F                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 13
Page 3
t                                 ~~~~~~- 96 -
Of the above financing $5.6 million, $1.5 million allocated to organic
chemistry is subject to a technical review by ICICI to onsure viability.
5.       Benefits.  The project support for catalysis could assist NCL in
producing state-of-art innovation and transferring the technology developed at
a high value-added form. This is an area where NCL has earned an
international reputation, and the project could help NCL to enter potential
technology export. Polymers is an area that NCL has strengthened considerably
in the past few years, support from the project could enable NCL to make its
contribution in engineering plastics, polymer alloys and other polymer for
industrial applications. Project support to NCL's organic chemistry group
would benefit a wide range of smaller scale chemical industries where domestic
source of technology will play an important role.
Central Mining Research Station (CMRS)
6.       CMRS was set up in Dhanbad, Bihar in 1955 under the CSIR system and
has a staff of 5cO, including 200 scientists and engineers, and annual
expenditures in the past 3 years of Rs 35  million.  Its R&D activities cover
mining methods, mining environment and health, mining engineering and
explosion safety. Testing services of CMRS are important parts of its
activities. However, in most cases, the facilities require upgrading and
improvement. For flameproof and safety testing, CMRI is the sole testing
center in India. The project would finance modernization of the flameproof
and safety testing facility to make its testing acceptable internationally and
also to gain useful experience of using CSIR laboratories for industrial
testing.  CMRS which presently generates about Rs 15 million revenue (45% of
total expenditure) is anticipating increasing its cost recovery ratio to 50%
after completion of the project.
7.       Subnroject.  The proposed project focuses on modernization of testing
facilities, strengthening of consulting service to industry and maintaining
current level of research activities, and to finance its modernization program
of the Flame and Explosion Labnratory. The modernization program includes: (a)
upgrading the in-house facilities for safety and performance testing; (b)
establishment mobile laboratory on vans for on-site safety inspection and
education; and (c) establishment of consulting and training cells for
industrial safety.
8.       Performance Indicators.  For institutional objectives, CHRI is
expected to achiev  the following performance indicators:



ANNEX 13
Page 4
- 97 -
Table 3: INDIA--CMRS'S PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/9'.
SRonsored Proiect
No. of projects                        80     80       80       80       80
Rs millions                             8      8        8        8        8
Consulting Assignments
No. of Assignments                    105    117      129     141       150
Rs million                             3.5    3.9      4.3      4.7       5.2
Testing
Rs million                             3.5    3.8      4.2     5.4        7.6
Total Revenue
Rs million                            16     18       19      20         23
as % of curr. exp.                    43     45       45      46         50
9.       SubDroject Costs.  To implement the institutional development plan,
CHRS anticipates a capital investment requirement of Rs 30 million during
three years period frem 1990/91 to 1992/93. The World Bank will provide about
US$0.7 million (equivalent of Rs 11.2 million and 37% of total capital
requirement) and the balance will be financed by CSIR. The Bank financing
will concentrate on the modernization program of the Flame and Explosion
Laboratory, financing equipment purchase, training and imported testing
materials. The detailed equipment list and project components financed by the
Bank is included in the Project File.
10.      Benefits.  The Flame and Explosion Laboratory at CMRS is the only
recognized testing authority for testing and certification of electrical
equipment used in flammable atmosphere. Modernization of the laboratory is in
response to the increased demand of work volume and sophistication. Besides
in-house testing, the project will equip CMRS with mobile safety inspection
and consulting facilities to provide the needed service on site.
Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI)
11.      CLRI was set up near Madras in 1953 under the CSIR system and it now
has a staff of 630, including 140 scientists and engineers with an annual
expenditure of about Rs 40 mill.oa. Its client base is the tanning, leather
goods and related chem^ "als industry whose export revenue amounted to about
Rs 4 billion (US$300 million) in 1984/85, accounting for close to 4% of total
Indian exports. Despite the potentially large client base, CLRI has tended to
focus too heavily on basic research and has underpriced the services it has
provicted its clientele, resulting in an inadequate recovery ratio. Many of
its scientists, however, are of outstanding repute and CLRI is well organized
for its past goals. CLRI has prepared an institutional strategy wh,ch
proposes to refocus some of its excellent human resources on applied work,



ANNEX 13
- 98 -                              Page 5
thereby strengthen CLRI's ability to serve its clients and to increase its
charges and revenues. To help achieve these goals, under the project, CLRI
would (i) establish pilot plant facilities by which indistrial R&D beyond
laboratory scple can be conducted; (ii) attract direct involvement of the
industry through establishing an R&D facility commonly operated by CLRI and
the industrial firms; and (iii) develop quality control mechanisms and expand
its environmental program in the tanning sector. Through implementation of
the new strategy, CLRI aims to increase its revenue generation from Rs 4.2
mi'llion in 1987 to about Rs 40 million in 1995 and its cost recovery ratio
from 11% to 45% in the same period.
Table 4:   CLRI PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
Large Contracts bv Mission Projects
No. of Contracts                          2       4       5         6     6
Value (Rs million)                      0.5     1.1     2.6       3.2   4.0
Consulting by Mission Proiects
No. of Assignments                        15     20      25        25    27
Value (Rs million)                       1.2    2.5     4.1       6.0   8.2
Eguipment Rental By Mission Projects
No. of Rental                          2,000  2,500   2,800    3,200  3,500
Income (Rs million)                     0.6    1.0      1.5       3.2    5.3
Total CLRI Revenue Generation
Rs million                              10       14     23      31     41
as % of current expenses               20        22     26      39     45
12.      Subgroject Cost.  CLRI anticipates a capital investment requirement
of Rs 136 million in three years to implement the institutional plan. The
Bank will provide US$4.05 million (Rs 64 million, 47% of the total cost) to
finance procurement of equipment, management system improvement and
international training.  The balance will be financed by CLRI and possible
industrial crntributions.  The detailed procurement list for Bank financing is
in the Pro -ct File and the financing required is summarized in Table 4. The
base cost is estimated by CLRI with available information.  A physical
contingency of 5% and a price contingency estimated on the basis of projected
implementation schedule and the Bank's projection on domestic and
international inflation rates are added to ensure adequate allocation of
funds.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
Table 5: CLRI PROJECT COMPONENTS FINANCED BY THE BANK
(US$ million)
Foreign   Local    Total
Equipment                         2.93       0.35     3.28
Training                          0.05       0.0      0.05
Management System                 0.18       0.0      0.18
Base cost                       3.16       0.35     3.51
Physical Contingency               0.16       0.02     0.18
Price Contingency,                 0.32       0.04     0.36
Total /a                     3.64      0 41      4,05
la Of which $0.37 million allocated for Kanpur common
facility is subject to industry's commitment.
13.      Benefits.  The proposed project will attract more sponsored research
at the pilot tanner facilities and increase potential use of the facility by
industrial firms.  It will also strengthen CLRI's capability in finished
product quality control, leather and footwear design and leather chemical
areas. The technology pull from industry should amplify the economic benefits
of CLRI project as collaboration between the institute and industry improves.
National Metallurgv Laboratory (NML)
14.      NML in Jamshedpur (established in 1950) has a staff of 1,000
including 230 scientists and other professionals.  Its R&D and testing
activities are in the areas of material science and engineering, metal and
mining processing.  NML is an excellent example of a turn around which can
take place in an RI, which previously was not a productive institution serving
industry's needs. Major steps to re-orient the institution have already been
taken and support is needed to further strengthen it. Three years ago, under
new senior management with previously extensive industrial experience, NML
completed a self-analysis and a long-term development plan dealing with all
aspects of the institutes, its role, methods of operation, staffing, etc.  It
inter alia redefined its objectives and priorities to pursue application
oriented research with 75% of its total available resources. Decision making
procedures were established to facilitate initiation and implementation of
focused industrial R&D. It also stepped up its efforts to collaborate with
industry in R&D projects and succeeded in 3 years to raise outside revenue
generation from about 10% to over 40%. One such future effort, a new R&D
program for component integrity evaluation is proposed with joint financing
from industry and the project. This R&D program aims to develop methodology
and to provide testing facilities to detect rotential failures in large scale
industrial systems such as power plants, chemical plants, petroleum



ANNE){ 12
Page 7
- 100 -
refineries, railways and steel plants. The potential economic and social
benefits for detecting potential failure and ensuring system reliability to
avoid major system breakdown are enormous. Institutionally, NML expects to
more than double its revenue generation between 1988/89 and 1993/94 and to
reach a cost recovery ratio of above 50% by that time.
15.      SubRroiect.  The proposed project would finance equipment, technology
collaboration fees and related expenses in establishing a component integrity
evaluation R&D program. The program would characterize the selected
industrial materials, develop methods to analyze component reliability of
irdustrial systems and prevent major system failures. The program will be
very useful to detect potential failure and to identify the weak links in
large industrial structures, such as those of steel industry, pipelines, power
plarnts and chemical complex.
16.      Performance Indicators. NML is expected to achieve the performance
indicators in the following table.
Table 6:  INDIA--NML PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
Revenue Generation
PRs million                     24       30      35      40       45
as % of current exports         46      45       45      45       52
Technology Licensed
No. Licensed                     5        7       8       9       10
Patents Filed                   17      20       22      25       28
Industrial Relation
No. of Clients                 220     270      330     390      410
No. of MOU                       4        5       7       9       11
Staff Restructuring/training
High level (No/Age)          205/47  215/45  225/43  235/41  245/40
Low level (No/Age)           785/52  770/52  755/53  740/53  725/54
Training of Staff               35      40       45      50       55
17.      SubRroiect Cost.  The estimated cost of establishing the component
integrity evaluation program is about Rs 74 million (US$4.6 million) of which
the Bank will provide financing of US$2.3 million (50% of the total cost).
The detailed procurement list and project components are included in the
Project File.  The summarized cost is presented in Table 4.  The base costs



ANNEX 13
Page 8
- 101 -
are estimated by NML with available information. A physical contingency of 5%
and a price contingency estimated on the basis of projected project
implementation schedule and the Bank's projection of domestic and
international inflation rates are added to ensure adequate allocation of
funds.
Table 7:  INDIA--NML COMPONENT EVALUATION PROGRAM COST ESTIMATES
(US$ million)
Foreign    Domestic     Total
Equipment                                  2.5         0.3          2.8
Technology and training                    1.0         0.1          1.1
Other                                      0.0         0.1          0.1
Base Cost                             3.5                     4.0
Physical contingencies                     0.2         0.0         0.2
Price contingencies                        0.3         0.1         0.4
Proiect Cost                          41.0        0.          4.6
18.      Benefits.  The economic benefit of the component integrity evaluation
program is the prevention of potential catastrophic failure of large
industrial structure in operation and provision of gaidelines and material
selection in design stages. Many large industrial firms, such as Tata Steel,
Steel Auathority of India, India Oil and many power plants, have long demanded
such service. Because of capital and special staffing requirements, firms
have failed to establish in-house programs of their own. NML is ideally
positioned to undertake this project has the technical capability beyond that
of individual firms to carry this endeavor out well and to realize a more
efficient use of human and financial resources than if each company went its
own way.



ANNEX 14
- 102-                              Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Guidelines of the Sponsored R&D Promotion Fund
1.       Objectives.  The Sponsored R&D Promotion Fund (Fund) established by
the Government of India with the proceeds of the IDA credit has been placed
with ICICI for management. The Fund is intended to stimulate industry's
demand for services of the TIs and strengthen industry-TI collaboration by
providing financing for R&D projects sponsored by industry and carried out by
or with technology institutions (TIs).
2.       Project Criteria.  Eligible projects will cover industrial research
and development technology activities carried out by or jointly with TIs.
(a) They should normally be aimed at contributing to at least one of the
following:
(i) development of a new product or process;
(ii) significant improvement of an existing product or process in
terms of raw material consumption, cost reduction, quality,
productivity or environmental control;
(iii) developing, testing and upscaling of a technology developed by a
TI.
(b)  Projects can be at any point in the spectrum of R&D activities
starting from laboratory trials and prefeasibility studies to
prototype. In exceptional cases, particularly for technologies
developed in TIs, full-scale pilot plant operations can also be
funded.
(c)  Projects should have feasible and measurable outputs and should
normally not be planned to take longer than 18 months to 2 years to
complete. Where an R&D program is long-term, it should be phased,
with each project to be a phase of the program.  Projects which are
follow-ups to successful projects would be encouraged. Financing
would be available for all stages.
(d) The work can be carried out in a TI or on the firm's premises
provided that the contribution by the TI to the joint project is
substantial as judged by ICICI.
3.       Eligible TIs.  Eligible TIs include public sector research
institutes, universities and other educational institutions, laboratories set
up by industrial associations and foundations, other similar noncaptive and



- 103-                             Page 2
autonomous R&D institutions and other institutions (such as BIS) with the
capacity to carry out the proposed R&D project.
4.       Eligible Companies.  Companies, both existing and start-up, in the
private, joint or public sector will be eligible
5.       Eligible Exjenses.  Items eligible for financing by the Fund include
the following:
(a)  equipment and facilities (excluding buildings and land) at TIs or, if
at the firm, at a percentage representing the use of the equipment
for the project;
(b) labor cost and fees of TI personnel identifiable for the project
activities;
(c) technology fees payable to TIs;
(d) expenses and fees payable to outside consultants and experts;
(e) materials and consumables required for the project;
(f) project related travel and overhead expenses.
All expenses must be documented and audited annually.
6.       Terms and Conditions.
(a) Subloans will be made at an initial interest rate of 6% p.a. during
the project implementation period and will be increased to 14%
interest and/or royalty from tl-e date of targeted completion. The
method of repayment will be determined by ICICI in negotiations with
the client company.
(b)  ICICI will receive annual management fees equal to 29. of the subloan
balance and 15% of royalty payments accruing to the Fund.
(c) The maximum term of subloan is twelve years but the term would
generally be shorter.  Grace periods will reflect the stage of
development of the activity and the likely period for                           1
commercialization of results, but will not normally exceed four
years.
(d) In exceptional circumstances, the subloar. can be written off if
demonstrated by the sponsoring industrial firm to the satisfaction of
ICICI that the project was unsuccessful. A set of simple and
measurable definitions of success, therefore, will be included in
each subloan agreement.
7.       Disbursements would normally be made to the TI on the basis of
requests by the sponsoring firms.
8.       Maximum Assistance per Company.  The maximum assistance from the Fund
to one sponsoring company should not exceed US$500,000 or the net annual



&- , 14
- 104-                              Page 3
increase over and above the average R&D outlay of the company for the previous
two years, whichever is lower. In exceptional circumstances, if the World
Bank agrees, the limit can be waived.
9.       Sponsor's Contribution.  The sponsor's contribution should be at
least 50% of the sponsored R&D project.
10.      TI Particiation.  The TIs would be expected to provide performance
guarantees that they will carry out the activities and would be held
accountable in the event that they do not carry out the work agreed to.
11.      Proiect Approval Procedures.  The TG would complete an appraisal
report of each project and submit it to an approval committee consisting of
the Deputy Managing Director of ICICI, the head of the TG and the relevant
outsiders invited from the steering committee.  The first five projects would
first be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
12.      Project Implementation Monitoring.  If the progress of the project is
found to be unsatisfactory, the TG would review the project with the sponsor
ai.d determine a suitable action with respect to further disbursement.
13.      In general, and where necessary, TG will identify and assign a
resource person for individual sponsored project. Such a person will visit
the project periodically, the frequency being determined by the need for
review and complexity of the project. In addition, the TG would form a
tripartite review committee made up of a representative each of the TI, firm
and ICICI to review progress. The sponsor of each project will submit
quarterly progress reports to the TG for review, which would form the basis
for the tripartite review.
13.      Where progress is unsatisfactory, with the approval of the Deputy
Managing Director, ICICI reserves the right to cake suitable action including
suspending disbursements.
[
i



IBRD 21651
H@= ~         /V lt /z 1\I N  D  I A
c andig ah            INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,uZi4,,,v  | iv J  /-     _   Location of Participating
Institutions
PAKISTAN                              SIIR 
I    Delhi                              . _
{ t / 1 ! . _ 4 n~~~~~~~BHUTAN
> aS 8 I >/ z i | X alpur J 7-             Lucknow  2_
L \  --,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Guwahati
t                    //       f                       '               {   _ /
- < 0 -> 8 BAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~G-
> <   , ZliX B  X  2                          ' }  ~~~~~~Dhanbad 00
Ahmedabad                  Bhopal
0 t1                 0                           Jamshepur
.v1/1lis s1/.#. s    VBhubaneshwaroa
,   t    r-i .,    <;V        ~~~BA' or
Bombay(        NCL                                                      R  NGA 
Stl I Pune                                -. 
oX  Hyderabad_>
I'>
.i;t.J , s ii ,v            s               .. . j '-  Technolorv Services Management Entlty
1. Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporatlon of India (ICICI)
A Venture Calitat Management Entitles:
1. Technology Development and
Bangalore                      Information Company of India (TICU)
2. CanBank Financial Service Ltd. (CanFin)
'[RZ VMadras 3. Andhra Pradesh industrial Development
Corporation (APIDC)
,2 -   .   \<   -   44. Cujarat Industrial Investment
Corporation (GIIC)
Ar/ 161  A    Colmbatore          * The First Six TechnoloEv institutes:
1. Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
It  s %   :_jo         2. National Chemical Laboratory (NCL)
\t  I.      t_ { -_         3. National Metallurgical Laboratory (NML)
MILES                    \   /                          Central Mining Research Station (CMRS
0     1oo   200                 S0!  j    J           t  5. Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI
I_________ |Trivandrum                                    6. Shriram Institute for Industrial
X   |   |   X   |   -                   .    ~~~~~~~~~~Research (STIR)
0  100 200 300 400                        
KILOMETERS                                    0RI          o   Towns
LANKA               i National Capital
Due to scale considerations, some areas couldnothe                   State and Union Territory
included in the map;    for any information                           Boundaries
thatmay apply toasuchsareas.er'                                      International Boundaries
JUNL I1989



