Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2064 IN
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3119 IN
            (Industrial Technology Development Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
                   CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                                and
              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND INFORMATION
                     COMPANY OF INDIA LIMITED
                      Dated December 8, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2064 IN
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3119 IN
                      ICICI PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  8,  1989  among the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association), the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank),   THE INDUSTRIAL
CREDIT AND INVESTMENT  CORPORATION  OF  INDIA LIMITED (ICICI), and
the  TECHNOLOGY  DEVELOPMENT  AND  INFORMATION  COMPANY  OF  INDIA
LIMITED (TDICI).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India,  acting  by  its  President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the  Association  has  agreed  to lend to the
Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to forty-
four  million  two   hundred   thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 44,200,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ICICI and
TDICI agree to undertake  such  obligations toward the Association
Page  2
as are set forth in this Agreement; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies  equivalent to $145,000,000 on the
terms and conditions set forth in  the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that ICICI and TDICI agree to undertake such obligations
towards the Bank as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     (C)  by an ICICI subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ICICI,  part  of the proceeds of the Loan
provided under the Loan Agreement  and  the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to ICICI on terms and conditions set forth in said ICICI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (D)  TDICI, as a managing agent for ICICI, will manage the VC
Funds for venture capital financing  under  Part A of the Project;
and
     WHEREAS ICICI and  TDICI,  in  consideration  of the Associa-
tion's entering into  the  Development  Credit  Agreement with the
Borrower and the Bank's entering  into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to  undertake  the  obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  (a)  ICICI  declares,  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Part B of the Project  and  conduct its operations and affairs, in
accordance with  sound  financial  standards  and  practices, with
qualified and experienced  management  and  in accordance with its
Charter.
     (b)  TDICI declares its commitment  to  the objectives of the
Project as set  forth  in  Schedule  2  to  the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
and conduct its operations  and  affairs, in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices,  with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance  with  its Memorandum and Articles of
Association.
     Section  2.02.  (a)   ICICI   undertakes   that,  unless  the
Association shall otherwise agree,  Sub-loans  under Part B of the
Project, will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set  forth  or  referred  to in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  TDICI undertakes that,  unless  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, venture capital financing under  Part A of the Project will
be made  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and  on  terms and
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Schedule  1  to this
Agreement.
     (c)  TDICI shall exercise its rights  in relation to each VCF
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and of
Page  3
ICICI; (ii) comply with its  obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section  2.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Part B.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a) ICICI  shall  carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,  9.05,  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the  General  Conditions  applicable  to  the  Development  Credit
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and  schedules,  records   and   reports,   maintenance  and  land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part B of the Project.
     (b)  TDICI shall  carry  out  the  obligations  set  forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and  9.09 of the General
Conditions  applicable  to   the   Loan   Agreement  (relating  to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the ICICI Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.05. ICICI shall  duly perform all obligations under
the ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, ICICI  shall not take or concur in
any action which  would  have  the  effect of assigning, amending,
abrogating or waiving the  ICICI  Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) ICICI  and  TDICI  shall, at the request of
the Association or the  Bank,  exchange views with the Association
and the Bank  with  regard  to  the  progress  of the Project, the
performance of  their  obligations  under  this  Agreement  and in
respect of ICICI, under  the  ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the  purposes  of  the Credit and of the
Loan.
     (b)  ICICI and TDICI  shall  promptly  inform the Association
and the Bank of  any  condition  which  interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of  the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit or  of  the Loan, or the performance by
ICICI and TDICI of their  obligations  under this Agreement and of
ICICI under the ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section  2.07.  TDICI   shall   maintain  adequate  staff  of
industrial, technical and financial  experience,  and carry on its
management of the VC  Funds  to  promote technology development in
industrial firms and to maximize profitability for the VC Funds.
     Section 2.08. ICICI  shall  staff  its  technology group with
adequate  numbers  and   appropriate   technical  background,  and
maintain organization  and  management  guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) ICICI  and  TDICI shall maintain in respect
of  Parts  B  and   A   (including   VC  Funds)  of  the  Project,
respectively,  procedures  and  records  adequate  to  monitor and
record the progress of  the  Project  (including  its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of ICICI and of TDICI (and VC Funds).
     (b)  ICICI and TDICI (including VC Funds) shall:
          (i)  have   their   records,   accounts   and  financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
Page  4
               and expenses  and  related  statements)  related to
               Parts B and  A  of  the  Project, respectively, for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association and the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank, as soon as
               available but  in  any  case  not  later  than four
               months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year,  (A)
               certified copies of  their financial statements for
               such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
               audit by said auditors,  of  such scope and in such
               detail as the Association  and  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association  and the Bank such other
               information concerning  said  records, accounts and
               financial statements as  well  as the audit thereof
               as the Association and the  Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which  both  the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank,  of  ICICI  and  of  TDICI thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the  date  on  which  both  the  Development Credit
               Agreement  and  the   Loan   Agreement  shall  have
               terminated in accordance with their terms; or
         (ii)  a date twenty  (20)  years  after  the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit   Agreement  or  the  Loan
Agreement or both of said  Agreements terminate in accordance with
their respective terms before the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the  Association and the Bank shall promptly
notify ICICI and TDICI of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension  under  the  General  Conditions  applicable  to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
Page  5
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For the Bank:
           International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
          Cable address                     Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For ICICI:
          Industrial Credit and Investment
            Corporation of India Limited
          163 Backbay Reclamation
          Bombay 400020
          India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                CREDCORP                       11-3062 ICICI IN
                Bombay
     FOR TDICI:
          Technology Development and
            Information Company of India Limited
          44-45 Residency (Cross) Road, Leo Complex
          Bangalore 560025
          Karnataka
          India
                                            Telex:
                                              0845-2947-TDIC-IN
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ICICI  and  TDICI, may be taken or executed
by its Chairman and Managing Director,  or by such other person or
persons as ICICI and TDICI  shall  designate in writing, and ICICI
and TDICI shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to ICICI and TDICI and  so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have  terminated  prior  to the termination of
the Loan Agreement:
     (a)  the obligations of ICICI and  TDICI to consult with, and
to furnish  information,  documents,  plans,  reports, records and
statements  to,  the  Bank  shall   be  satisfied  to  the  extent
performance in respect  of  such  obligations  is  rendered to the
Association;
Page  6
     (b)  the obligations of  the  Bank  to  consult  with, and to
furnish information to, ICICI and  TDICI shall be satisfied to the
extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
     (c)  all actions taken (including  the giving of approvals or
granting  of  waivers)   by   the   Association  pursuant  to  the
Development Credit Agreement shall be  deemed to be taken pursuant
to both the Development  Credit  Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
and in the name  and  on  behalf  of  both the Association and the
Bank.
     Section 5.04.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
                          CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                        TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND INFORMATION
                          COMPANY OF INDIA LIMITED
                        By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                   Terms and Conditions for VCF
                    under Part A of the Project
1.   ICICI shall establish  and  maintain  VC  Funds in accordance
with terms and conditions and operating guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.   ICICI shall raise from  their  own and/or other sources twice
the proceeds of the Loan  made  available to ICICI by the Borrower
to constitute each VC Fund.
3.   ICICI shall ensure  that,  under arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, each VC Fund shall enter into a management contract with
TDICI for the purpose of managing such VC Fund.
4.   TDICI shall maintain operating guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank for each VC Fund.
5.   Prior approval of the Bank  will  be required for each VCF in
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000 or more.
6.   Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of  paragraph 5,
Page  7
first 5 VCFs shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.
7.   (a)  When presenting  a  VCF  to  the  Bank  for  approval or
information, TDICI shall furnish  to  the  Bank an application, in
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the VCF, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;  (ii)  the  proposed terms and conditions of
the VCF;  and  (iii)  such  other  information  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request.
     (b)  Commitments  for  VCFs  shall   be  made  on  or  before
December 31, 1992.
8.   TDICI shall require that: (a) the Investment Enterprise shall
carry out its affairs  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
accordance  with   sound   technical,   financial  and  managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  the  goods  and  services  to  be  financed  out  of the
proceeds of the Loan  shall  be  purchased  at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery  and  efficiency  and   reliability   of  the  goods  and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them;
     (c)  it   may   inspect,   by    itself   or   jointly   with
representatives of the Bank  if  the  Bank  shall so request, such
goods,  works  and  plants   of  the  Investment  Enterprise,  the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  the Investment Enterprise  shall  take  out and maintain
with responsible insurers such  insurance,  against such risks and
in such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent  with  sound business
practice.  Without  any   limitation   upon  the  foregoing,  such
insurance  shall  cover  hazards   incident  to  the  acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods  financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to  the  place  of  use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable  in  a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  it may obtain all  such  information  as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration,  operations  and  financial  condition  of the
Investment Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
VCF; and
     (f)  it may suspend or terminate  the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
agreement with TDICI.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans
                    under Part B of the Project
Technology Services Revolving Fund
     ICICI shall manage  on  behalf  of  the Borrower a Technology
Services  Revolving  Fund  (TSRF)   of  an  amount  equivalent  to
$55,000,000 of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  in accordance with
operating guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
Part I: Sub-loans to Technical Institutions
1.   Funds from TSRF shall  be  relent  by  ICICI to six Technical
Institutions previously appraised  by  ICICI  and the Association.
Additional institutions will  be  selected  and appraised by ICICI
according  to  selection  guidelines  included  in  the  Operating
Page  8
Guidelines of TSRF approved by the Association.
2.   ICICI shall collect a service  charge  of 1% per annum on the
amount of each  Sub-loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding from time to
time.
3.   ICICI shall charge a  1/4%  per  annum  commitment fee on the
principal amount of the Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time.
4.   Repayments shall be  made  by  the  Technical Institutions in
maximum 15 years, including therein a grace period of 4 years.
5.   All Sub-loans in an amount  of $4,000,000 equivalent or more,
and the  first  two  Sub-loans,  not  previously  appraised by the
Association, irrespective of its amount, shall be subject to prior
review by the Association.
6.   No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-loan
shall be eligible for financing out  of the proceeds of the Credit
unless:  (a)  the  Sub-loan  shall   have  been  approved  by  the
Association; or (b) the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-
loan for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the
Credit  Account.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Agreement  and the
Development Credit Agreement,  a  free-limit  Sub-loan  shall be a
Sub-loan for  which  prior  approval  of  the  Association  is not
required in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
7.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association for  approval, ICICI shall furnish to the
Association an  appraisal  report,  in  form  satisfactory  to the
Association, and such other  information  as the Association shall
reasonably request.
     (b)  Each  request  by   ICICI   for  authorization  to  make
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  in  respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall include a copy of the appraisal report and the Sub-
loan agreement.
     (c)  Applications  and   requests   made   pursuant   to  the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b) of this paragraph shall
be presented to the Association on or before June 30, 1992.
8.   Sub-loans shall be made on  terms whereby ICICI shall obtain,
by written contract with  each  Technical  Institution or by other
appropriate legal means, rights  adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and the Borrower, including the right to:
     (a)  require the  Technical  Institutions  to  carry  out and
operate their affairs  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
accordance  with   sound   technical,   financial  and  managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in the carrying out
of the Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Association if the  Association  shall  so request, such goods
and the sites,  works,  plants  and  construction  included in the
Project, the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant  records and
documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the  Technical Institutions shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit  to  the  place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be  made  payable in a currency freely
Page  9
usable by the  Technical  Institutions  to  replace or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such  information  as  the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration,  operations  and  financial  condition  of the
Technical Institutions and to the  benefits to be derived from the
Project; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate   the   right  of  the  Technical
Institutions to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure
by such Technical  Institutions  to  perform its obligations under
its contract with ICICI.
9.   ICICI  shall  ensure  that:  (i)  the  Technical Institutions
already appraised  introduce  cost-accounting systems satisfactory
to ICICI by December  31,  1990;  (ii) said Technical Institutions
shall not be disbursed  any  funds  unless ICICI is satisfied that
the institutional  goals  set  up  by  the  Institutions are being
substantially met for financial year 1989/90; (iii) the additional
Technical Institutions which are selected for participation in the
Project will introduce  cost-accounting  practices satisfactory to
ICICI within one year of first disbursement by ICICI; and (iv) all
research institutions participating  in  Part  B.1  of the Project
will not be  disbursed  any  funds  unless  they  have appointed a
Senior  Technical  Officer  for  laboratory  safety  and  a safety
protocol has been issued.
Part II:  Sponsored Research and Development Promotion
1.   Funds equivalent to  $15  million  from  the  proceeds of the
Credit will be relent  by  ICICI  to industrial firms for research
and development in and/or with Technical Institutions.
2.   Sponsored research and  development  promotion under Part B.2
of the Project will  be  carried  out in accordance with operating
guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
3.   For each sponsored  research  and  development promotion Sub-
loan, ICICI shall furnish  to  the Association an appraisal report
in a  format  satisfactory  to  the  Association  and the Sub-loan
agreement, provided, however, that  first  five Sub-loans shall be
subject to prior review by the Association.
4.   The goods and services  shall  be procured in accordance with
the standard procedures of ICICI.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  B hereof, goods shall be procured
under  contracts  awarded  through  limited  international bidding
procedures on  the  basis  of  evaluation  and  comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines) and in
accordance with the procedures set  forth  in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines  (excluding  paragraphs  2.8,  2.9,  2.55  and 2.56
thereof).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for  items  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$200,000 each  or  less  may  be  procured  following the standard
procedures prescribed by ICICI for such procurement.
Page  10
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and or proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply,
provided, however, that such procedures shall in any case apply to
the first five packages. Where  payments  for such contract are to
be made out  of  the  Special  Account,  such  procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to  the Association and the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall  be furnished to the Association and
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to  the Association and the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be  furnished to the Association and the
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the  preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01  (a)  (ii)  of the Development Credit
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Technical Institutions in carrying out
of the Project,  consultants  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association, shall be employed. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
