Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3119 IN
            (Industrial Technology Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                      Dated December 8, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3119 IN
                      IDBI PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA (IDBI).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies  equivalent to one hundred forty-five
million dollars ($145,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that IDBI agree
to undertake such obligations toward the  Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  the  Development  Credit   Agreement  of  even  date
herewith between the  Borrower  and  the International Development
Association (the Association), the  Association has agreed to make
available  to  the  Borrower   an  amount  in  various  currencies
equivalent to  forty-four  million  two  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 44,200,000)  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  2
     (C)  by an IDBI subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and IDBI, an amount equivalent to $13,500,000
out of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  provided  for  under the Loan
Agreement  will  be  made  available  to  IDBI  on  the  terms and
conditions set forth in said IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (D)  by a  CanBank  Financial  Agreement  to  be entered into
between IDBI and CanBank, an amount equal to $5,250,000 out of the
proceeds of the Loan made  available  by the Borrower to IDBI will
be made available to CanBank on  terms and conditions set forth in
said CanBank Financial Agreement;
     (E)  by an  APIDC  Financial  Agreement  to  be  entered into
between IDBI and APIDC an  amount  equivalent to $3,000,000 out of
the proceeds of the Loan  made  available  by the Borrower to IDBI
will be made available to  APIDC  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in said APIDC Financial Agreement;
     (F)  by a GIIC Financial Agreement to be entered into between
IDBI and  GIIC  an  amount  equivalent  to  $5,250,000  out of the
proceeds of the Loan made  available  by the Borrower to IDBI will
be made available to GIIC on the terms and conditions set forth in
said GIIC Financial Agreement; and
     WHEREAS IDBI, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   Loan  Agreement,  the  General
Conditions (as so defined) and in the Development Credit Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. IDBI declares  its commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end,  shall cause to be carried out
Part A of the  Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity  with   appropriate   administrative,   financial,  and
industrial practices, and shall provide,  or cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. For the purpose  of  carrying out Part A of the
Project, IDBI shall make available  to CanBank, APIDC and GIIC the
proceeds of the Loan made available by the Borrower to IDBI on the
same terms and conditions as IDBI shall receive such proceeds from
the Borrower in accordance with  and  subject to the provisions of
Section 3.02 of the Loan  Agreement,  under the CanBank, APIDC and
GIIC Financial Agreements  to  be  entered  into  between IDBI and
CanBank, APIDC and GIIC, respectively.
     Section 2.03. IDBI undertakes that,  except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans  and  Investments  under  Part A of the
Project will be  made  in  accordance  with  the procedures and on
terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. IDBI shall carry out or cause to be carried out
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09 of the General  Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the
Page  3
IDBI Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.05. IDBI  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Financial Agreements.
Except as the Bank shall  otherwise  agree, IDBI shall not take or
concur in any  action  which  would  have  the effect of amending,
abrogating,  assigning  or   waiving   the  IDBI  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement or Financial Agreements, or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) IDBI  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agreement,
under the IDBI Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement and under the Financial
Agreements, and other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes of the
Loan.
     (b)  IDBI shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by IDBI  of  its obligations under this Agreement,
under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  and  and under the Financial
Agreements.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of IDBI
     Section 3.01. IDBI shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
industrial  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  IDBI  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial  condition  related  to Part A of the
Project.
     (b)  IDBI shall:
          (i)   have its records and accounts in respect of Part A
                of the Project  for  each  fiscal year audited, in
                accordance  with  appropriate  auditing principles
                consistently  applied,   by  independent  auditors
                acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon as available, but in
                any case not later than  four months after the end
                of each such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
                accounts for such year as  so audited; and (B) the
                report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors of such
                scope and in such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
                reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish  to  the   Bank   such  other  information
                concerning said records  and  accounts  as well as
                the audit thereof, as the  Bank shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
Page  4
and of IDBI thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify IDBI thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For IDBI:
          Industrial Development Bank of India
          IDBI Tower
          Cuff Parade
          Bombay 400005, India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INDBANKIND                      011-2193 or
               Bombay                          011-4812
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  IDBI,  may  be  taken  or executed by its
Chairman and Managing Director or  such other person or persons as
IDBI shall designate in  writing,  and  IDBI  shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                   Terms and Conditions for VCF
1.   CanBank, APIDC and  GIIC  (the Beneficiaries) shall establish
VC Funds in  accordance  with  terms  and conditions and operating
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   The Beneficiaries shall  raise  from  their  own and/or other
sources, twice the proceeds of the  Loan made available to them by
IDBI to constitute each VC Fund.
3.   (a)  The Beneficiaries shall  carry  on  their operations and
conduct their  affairs  in  accordance  with sound administrative,
financial  and  industrial  practices  under  the  supervision  of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     (b)  The  Beneficiaries  shall  maintain  adequate  staff  of
industrial, technical and financial experience, and carry on their
management  of  VC  Funds  to  promote  technology  development in
industrial firms and maximize profitability for the VC Funds.
4.  (a)  The  Beneficiaries  shall ensure that, under arrangements
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  each  VC  Fund  shall  enter  into a
management contract with an acceptable  company for the purpose of
managing the VC Fund.
     (b)  The Beneficiaries  shall  ensure that said company shall
maintain operating guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, for the VC
Fund.
5.   Prior approval of the Bank  will  be required for each VCF in
an amount equivalent to $900,000  or more for APIDC and $1,000,000
or more for CanBank and GIIC.
6.   Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of  paragraph 5,
first 5 VCFs in respect  of  each  Beneficiary shall be subject to
prior approval by the Bank.
7.   (a)  When presenting a  VCF  to  the  Bank  for approval, and
for  information,  Beneficiaries  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank an
application, in  form  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, together with:
(i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of
the VCF, including a  description  of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the  VCF; and (iii) such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Commitments  for  VCFs  shall   be  made  on  or  before
December 31, 1992.
8.   The Beneficiaries shall require that:
Page  6
     (a)  the Investment Enterprise  shall  carry  out its affairs
with due diligence  and  efficiency  and  in accordance with sound
technical, financial  and  managerial  standards  and  to maintain
adequate records;
     (b)  the  goods  and  services  to  be  financed  out  of the
proceeds of the Loan  shall  be  purchased  at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery  and  efficiency  and   reliability   of  the  goods  and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if  the  Bank  shall  so  request,  such goods, works and
plants of the  Investment  Enterprise,  the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  the Investment Enterprise  shall  take  out and maintain
with responsible insurers such  insurance,  against such risks and
in such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent  with  sound business
practice.  Without  any   limitation   upon  the  foregoing,  such
insurance  shall  cover  hazards   incident  to  the  acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods  financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to  the  place  of  use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable  in  a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration,  operations   and   financial   condition  of  the
Investment Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to  perform  its  obligations under its con-
tract with the Beneficiaries.
9.   The Beneficiaries shall  ensure  that  the  VC Funds, and the
accounts of the companies managing  them, for each financial year,
are audited  in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied  by  independent  auditors  acceptable to the
Bank and the Beneficiaries shall  furnish  to the Bank, as soon as
available, but in any case  not  later  than four months after the
end of each year the  report  of  such  audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such  detail  as  the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
