Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2064 IN
            (Industrial Technology Development Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 8, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2064 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1989,  between  INDIA, acting by
its  President  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and   Development   (the   Bank)  to  provide
additional assistance towards the  financing  of  Parts A and C of
the Project and by an agreement  of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (the  Loan  Agreement), the Bank is agreeing
to  provide  such  assistance  in  an  aggregate  principal amount
equivalent   to   one    hundred    forty-five   million   dollars
($145,000,000) (the Loan);
Page  2
     (C)  Part A of the Project will be carried out through ICICI,
CanBank, APIDC and GIIC for which the Borrower will make available
an amount equivalent to  $45,000,000  out  of  the proceeds of the
Loan as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;
     (D)  Part B of the Project  will  be carried out by ICICI for
which the Borrower will  make  available  to ICICI the proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
     (E)  Part C  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Borrower;
     (F)  the Borrower is expected  to receive from the Government
of Japan a grant in  an  amount equivalent to $2,500,000 to assist
in financing Part D of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in  this Agreement and in the ICICI
and IDBI Project Agreements of even date herewith;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the  "General  Conditions   Applicable   to   Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (b)  "ICICI"  means  The  Industrial  Credit  and  Investment
Corporation of  India  Limited,  a  company  registered  under the
Companies Act, 1956, of the Borrower;
     (c)  "TDICI" means the Technology Development and Information
Company of India Limited, a company registered under the Companies
Act, 1956, of the Borrower;
     (d)  "CanBank" means the Canara  Bank, a bank established and
operating under the laws of India;
     (e)  "CanFina" means the  CanBank Financial Services Limited,
a subsidiary of  Canara  Bank  and  registered under the Companies
Act, 1956, of the Borrower;
     (f)  "APIDC" means the  Andhra Pradesh Industrial Development
Corporation, a company registered  under  the Companies Act, 1956,
of the Borrower;
     (g)  "GIIC"   means   the   Gujarat   Industrial   Investment
Corporation, a company registered  under  the Companies Act, 1956,
of the Borrower;
     (h)  "IDBI" means the Industrial Development Bank of India, a
Page  3
body corporate established  under  the Industrial Development Bank
of India Act, 1964, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (i)  "ICICI Project Agreement" means  the Agreement among the
Association, the Bank, ICICI and  TDICI  of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from  time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and  agreements  supplemental  to  the ICICI Project
Agreement;
     (j)  "IDBI Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Bank and IDBI of even  date  herewith,  as the same may be amended
from time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the IDBI Project Agreement;
     (k)  "Project Agreements" means the Agreements referred to in
sub-paragraphs (i) and (j) of this Section, collectively;
     (l)  "ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between  the  Borrower  and  ICICI pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of  the Loan Agreement, as the same
may be amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such term includes all
schedules to the ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (m)  "IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  IDBI pursuant to the
provisions of  Section 3.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement, as the same
may be amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such term includes all
schedules to the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (n)  "Subsidiary  Loan   Agreements"   means  the  Agreements
referred  to  in  sub-paragraphs  (l)  and  (m)  of  this Section,
collectively;
     (o)  "CanBank Financial Agreement" means  the agreement to be
entered into between IDBI  and  CanBank pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.02 of the IDBI  Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all Schedules to the
CanBank Financial Agreement;
     (p)  "APIDC Financial Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between IDBI and  APIDC pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 of the  IDBI  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
APIDC Financial Agreement;
     (q)  "GIIC Financial  Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between IDBI and  GIIC  pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 of the  IDBI  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
GIIC Financial Agreement;
     (r)  "Financial Agreements" means  the Agreements referred to
in sub-paragraphs (o), (p) and (q) of this Section, collectively;
     (s)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
ICICI to a technology service  institution for the purpose of Part
B.1 of the Project;
     (t)  "Conditional Sub-loan" means a  loan made or proposed to
be made by  ICICI  to  a  technology  service  institution for the
purpose of Part B.2 of the Project;
     (u)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which VCF
has been provided;
     (v)  "VCF" means a  venture  capital  financing, as an equity
investment,  loan,  quasi-equity  investment  or  other  financial
investment made in an  Investment  Enterprise  for the purposes of
Part A of the Project;
     (w)  "VC Fund" means  a  Venture  Capital Fund established by
ICICI, CanBank, APIDC or GIIC  for  the purpose of venture capital
Page  4
financing under Part A of the Project;
     (x)  "TDF"  means  the  Technical   Development  Fund  to  be
established for  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part  C  of the
Project;
     (y)  "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
     (z)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  forty-four  million  two  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 44,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Page  5
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  June  1 and December 1
commencing  December  1,  1999  and  ending  June  1,  2024.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on June 1,
2009  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of  such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative  and  financial  practices  and  shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part C of the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations  under  the  Development  Credit  Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause ICICI and  IDBI to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the  Project  Agreements all of their respective
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action necessary or  appropriate  to  enable  them to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     Section  3.02.  The   Borrower   shall,  in  accordance  with
arrangements  satisfactory  to  the  Association  under  the ICICI
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit
available to ICICI to manage  on  behalf  of the Borrower to carry
out Part B of the Project.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Part B.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Page  6
Schedule 3 to the ICICI Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part B of  the  Project  shall  be carried out by ICICI
pursuant to Section 2.04 (a) of the ICICI Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  ICICI, TDICI or IDBI shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreements;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
Page  7
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ICICI, TDICI
or IDBI will be able to perform their respective obligations under
the Project Agreements;
     (c)  the  Memorandum  of  Association  and  the  Articles  of
Association of ICICI dated January 5, 1955, as amended to the date
of this  Agreement  shall  have  been  amended,  so  as  to affect
materially and adversely the  ability  of  ICICI to perform any of
its obligations under the ICICI Project Agreement;
     (d)  the Borrower shall have made any changes in the existing
guidelines and procedures set  out  in  its Ministry of Industry's
Press Release Nos. 2(1)88-TDF dated  April 22, 1988 and 2(1)89-TDF
dated March 17, 1989 which  would limit access of industrial firms
to the TDF; and
     (e)  the Borrower has made  any  changes  in the framework of
Venture Capital  Guidelines  outlined  in  its  Press  Release No.
S.11(86)-CCI(11)/87 dated  November  25,  1988  which would affect
materially and adversely the  efficiency  and effectiveness of the
venture capital financing under Part A of the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ICICI and IDBI, respectively;
     (b)  CanBank Financial Agreement has  been executed on behalf
of IDBI and CanBank; and
     (c)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by ICICI, TDICI  and  IDBI, respectively, and are legally
binding upon  said  parties  in  accordance  with their respective
terms;
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been duly
authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  ICICI  and IDBI,
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and ICICI,
and IDBI, respectively in  accordance with their respective terms;
and
     (c)  CanBank Financial Agreement has  been duly authorized or
Page  8
ratified by IDBI and CanBank, and is legally binding upon IDBI and
CanBank, respectively in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a) and (b) of
Section 5.02 of this  Agreement  shall  cease and determine on the
date on which the Development  Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date 20 years  after  the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-3166175
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                          and of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of  the  Credit  and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                     Amount of        Amount of
                     the Credit       the Loan           % of
                      Allocated       Allocated        Expendi-
                     (Expressed      (Expressed          tures
                       in SDR         in Dollar          to be
                     Equivalent)     Equivalent)       Financed
(1)  VCF by ICICI                     20,000,000       100%
(2)  VCF through                                       100%
     IDBI:
     (a) by CanBank                    5,250,000
     (b) by APIDC                      3,000,000
     (c) by GIIC                       5,250,000
(3)  Sub-loans for                                     100%
     technology
     services:
     (a)  Part B.1    32,200,000               -
          of the
          Project
     (b)  Part B.2    12,000,000               -
          of the
          Project
                     Amount of        Amount of
                     the Credit       the Loan           % of
                      Allocated       Allocated        Expendi-
                     (Expressed      (Expressed          tures
                       in SDR         in Dollar          to be
                     Equivalent)     Equivalent)       Financed
(4)  Equipment and             -      100,000,000      33% of
     services under                                    foreign
     Part C of the                                     expendi-
     Project                                           tures
(5)  Unallocated
     for VCF                           11,500,000
                      __________      ___________
          TOTAL       44,200,000      145,000,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this   Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
Page  10
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures  under  Category   2(b)   until  the  APIDC
Financial Agreement has been entered  into between IDBI and APIDC;
and
     (c)  expenditures  under   Category   2(c)   until  the  GIIC
Financial Agreement has been  entered  into between IDBI and GIIC;
provided, further that disbursements  under Categories (1) and (2)
shall be subject to the provisions of paragraph 9 of Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower in
acquisition  and  development  of  technology  in  its  industrial
sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   The  carrying  out  of   a   program  of  assistance  to
          technologically   innovative    and    growth   oriented
          enterprises  through   provision   of   venture  capital
          financing (VCF).
Part B:
     1.   The  carrying  out  of   a   program  of  assistance  to
          technology service institutions  (primarily research and
          standards) to  serve  industrial  needs  by  making Sub-
          loans.
     2.   The  carrying  out   of   a   program  of  research  and
          development sponsored  by  industrial  firms and carried
          out jointly  with  or  completely  by technology service
          institutions through the  provision  of conditional Sub-
          loans.
Part C:   The carrying out of a program of promotion of technology
          modernization  by  importing  technology  and  technical
          know-how through the TDF.
Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training
             (i)  The carrying out  of  studies  by the Council of
                  Scientific and Industrial Research on technology
                  marketing and management and on upgrading of the
                  National   Chemical    Laboratory's   management
                  system, and the  implementation  of a program of
                  laboratory safety.
            (ii)  The  carrying  out  by   the  Bureau  of  Indian
                  Standards of a  study  to determine alternatives
                  for  advising   Indian   exporters   on  foreign
                  standards.
           (iii)  The  provision   of   training   and  consulting
                  services for  ICICI's  technology  group and the
                  carrying out of studies on industrial technology
                  development programs and policies in India.
            (iv)  The  provision  of   internships,  training  and
Page  11
                  consulting services relating  to  VCF for TDICI,
                  CanFina, APIDC Venture Capital Limited and GIIC.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3)  and  (4)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
or  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account  or  the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account  such  amount  or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account  or  the Loan
                Account and deposit into  the Special Account such
                amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                shall have been shown  by said documents and other
                evidence to  have  been  made  out  of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account or the  Loan  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  12
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  or  from  the  Loan  Account in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the General
Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement or Section 2.02 of the
Loan Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit or the
Loan allocated to the eligible  Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered  into by the Association or
the Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  respective General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Credit  Account  and  the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Credit Account
or the Loan  Account  allocated  to  the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining  on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such  notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association or the Bank)  an  amount  equal  to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall  otherwise  agree, no further deposit
by the Association into  the  Special  Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank all  or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association or  the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and  (c)  of this Schedule shall be credited
to  the  Credit  Account  or   the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent
withdrawal or for  cancellation  in  accordance  with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement and the Loan Agreement, including the
General Conditions applicable thereto.
Page  13
