Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2598-CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK, LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
June 14, 1979
This document hos a restricted distribution ad may be sed by recipients only in the performance of
their ofllkl duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorhation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =          Cypriot Pound (CL)
1 CL                   =          1,000 Mils
1 CL                   =          2.8 US Dollars (US$)
1 US$                  =          0.357 CL
1 US$                  =          357 Mils
CL Million             =          US$2.8 Million
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CDB - Cyprus Development Bank
KFW - Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
SSI - Small-Scale Industries



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CYPRUS
THIRD CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Cyprus Development Bank (CDB)
Guarantor:           Republic of Cyprus
Amount:              US$5 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:               The loarn will bear interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
Repayments will be according to a schedule reflecting
the composite amortization schedules of the subloans or
investments financed.
On-Lending Terms:   Subloans will be made for a maximum period of 15 years,
includirng grace periods of up to 3 years as decided
by CDB, but normally averaging one year. For possible
financing of CBD equity investments, the repayment period
will be 10 years, including 4 years of grace. The Bank
loan will be re-lent at 9 percent per annum, with the
Guarantor bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:         (a)  The proposed loan, estimated to cover one-quarter of
CD]3's total foreign exchange needs between mid-1979
and mid-1981, will be used as follows: (i) re-
leniding of $4.0 million to help finance the import
content of industrial and tourism sub-projects
supporting Government efforts to increase the foreign
exchange earning capacity of these subsectors; and
(ii) re-lending of $1.0 million, in conjunction with
matching Government funds, to continue support for
the Small Scale Industries (SSI) program. The SSI
component, to cover enterprises employing between
4 to 39 persons, will emphasize the strengthening
andl modernization of existing SSI, including mergers,
to make SSI more competitive internationally, while
also supporting the establishment of promising new
SS:I.
(b) Major objectives of the Bank loan are also to help
CD]3 mobilize critically needed additional foreign
exchange resources from external commercial sources,
and support sub-projects having substantial impact on
increasing foreign exchange earnings from manufactur-
ing and tourism.
LTis document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their aijcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disckosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(c)  Assuming continued political stabiLity, and given
CDB's satisfactory performance record, the project
has no major risks. On the basis of indications of
interest being shown by various commercial banks to
lend to CDB because of Bank financing, CDB is not
expected to have difficulties in resource mobilization.
However, CDB's lending targets may not be achieved as
rapidly as planned should its efforts to mobilize
additional resources prove more difficult and time-
consuming than now anticipated.
Final Date
for Project
Submissions:         December 31, 1981
Free Limit:          $350,000, with no aggregate limit on total subloans sub-
mitted below the free limit.
Estimated
Disbursements:       Bank FY                                1980      1981      1982
------($ Million)-----
Annual                                  2.4       1.9      0.7
Cumulative                              2.4      4.3       5.0
Appraisal
Report:              Report Number 2471-CY, dated June 14, 1979
EMENA Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK, LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.       :I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Cyprus Development Bank, Ltd, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Cyprus for the equivalent of US$5 million, for a third development bank proj-
ect, including a small-scale industry scheme. The loan would be repayable
substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the amortization schedules
for subloans and investments approved under the project, which would not
exceed 15 years. The interest rate would be 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        I'he last economic report on Cyprus (1151-CY) was circulated to the
Executive Directors in May 1976. Visits by the country economist in April
1977 and June 1978, to update the information and analysis, included discus-
sions with Turkish Cypriot officials and visits to the economically important
areas in th,e northern part of the island. Since sufficient reliable data are
still not available for the northern area, it has only been possible to
meaningfully review the economic situation and prospects for the Government-
controlled part of the island in southern Cyprus.
General Background
3.        Cyprus' economy grew at 7 percent per annum between 1960 and 1973,
despite tension between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities.
The major factors contributing to this growth were: a competent public
administration, dynamic entrepreneurs, a high rate of investment especially
in the private sector, a rapid increase in agricultural exports contributing
to strong overall balance of payments, and flexible fiscal and monetary
policies, which helped to stimulate growth while maintaining domestic price
stability.
4.        Ihe unprecedented drought of 1973 caused serious economic difficul-
ties, and the subsequent hostilities in July/August 1974 had a drastic impact
on the economy. Since then, Cyprus has de facto been divided into two parts
by a ceasefire line, with little movement of people or goods between them.
The southern part, under the Government's control, constitutes 64 percent of
the area of the island; the northern part, 36 percent of the land area, is
under Turkish Cypriot control. About one-third of the total population was
displaced, with over 150,000 Greek Cypriots moving south and approximately
45,000 Turkish Cypriots moving north. The displaced population has, in good
part, been resettled with humanitarian assistance provided largely through the
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (P-2455-CY) dated January 24, 1979.



UN. In 1977, the Government-controlled area had an estimated 524,000 people,
while an estimated 145,000 live in the area under Turkish Cypriot control.
Pending an island-wide political solution based on the principle of a federa-
tion, and within that anticipated framework, the Turkish Federated State of
Cyprus was proclaimed in February 1975. UN-sponsored intercommunal talks
towards such a possible solution have been held intermittently, and were
resumed in mid-May 1979 following a two year lapse.
5.        The de facto division of Cyprus into two communal zones has resulted
in significant structural changes for the island's economy. Immediately fol-
lowing the 1974 events, with the massive displacement of population and sever-
ance of sectoral linkages, GNP per capita dropped by some 19 percent and the
unemployment rate jumped to approximately 95 percent of the labor force in
south Cyprus. Northern Cyprus also faced a similar loss in income and surge
in unemployment. The balance of payments position was affected, as exports
and imports of the area under Government control fell by about 55 percent
in the second half of 1974. The drop in export earnings in the Government-
controlled area reflected the loss of over 47 percent of Cyprus' cultivated
land area in the north (which produced over half the island's agricultural
exports). This area has only partially been exploited since 1974 by the
Turkish Cypriots.
Recent Developments
6.        The Government, through bold measures, succeeded in arresting, and
in 1976 reversing, the economic decline in the area it controls. Two Emer-
gency Economic Action Plans were adopted for 1975-76 and 1977-78. These
plans focused on reactivating industry and agriculture, and reducing unemploy-
ment. Investments in labor-intensive, export-oriented industries, as well as
increased utilization of existing capital, led to a rapid recovery of GDP
and employment in 1975 and 1976. In 1976, GDP at factor cost grew by about
17 percent. This growth was stimulated primarily by unique external oppor-
tunities, as resourceful Greek Cypriot entrepreneurs managed to export an
unusually large amount of agricultural goods to drought-affected countries
in Europe and expand their market share in the Middle East because of the
disturbances in Lebanon. They also continued to win contracts in the Middle
East, giving rise to export of unemployed labor and significant worker remit-
tances. The strong export-led recovery in 1976 resulted in a turn-around in
the balance of payments after three years of increasing deficits. Receipts
from merchandise exports soared 76 percent, mostly from agricultural produce
for the United Kingdom, and cement, clothing and footwear for the Middle East
and Eastern Europe. Receipts from tourism and worker's remittances also rose
considerably. Therefore, even though payments for merchandise imports rose
by 40 percent as a result of economic reactivation and export production, the
current account deficit was marginal in 1976. Despite these achievements,
investment, employment and GNP per capita in constant prices (of 1967) had
still not regained their pre-1974 levels by the end of 1976.
7.        During 1977, these external factors had greatly diminished in scope,
except for the growth of workers remittances. Instead, the main impetus
behind expansion of production was the rapid growth of aggregate domestic



demand. It grew twice as rapidly as output in 1977, as the effects of the
Government's expansionary policies took hold. On the supply side, expansion
was made possible by the utilization of idle land, labor and machinery,
although by the end of 1977, full capacity utilization had been achieved in
many subsectors. Together with export of labor for construction contracts,
the unemployment rate declined to 3 percent from 16 percent in 1975. The
budget deficit declined by 15 percent in 1977 but remained high in relation
to the deficits prior to the events of 1974 as the Government continued its
efforts to stimulate recovery and meet the needs of refugees. Private con-
sumption in, 1977 rose by 19 percent. Gross domestic investment increased
by 38 percent and fixed capital formation by 45 percent, with most of the
increase accounted for by private investment in manufacturing and construc-
tion. GDP at factor cost grew by an additional 16 percent in 1977. However,
the rate of growth in merchandise exports slowed down to 20 percent from the
unusually high rate of 73 percent in 1976, reflecting an abatement of the
unusual external factors which had spurred growth in 1976. With the more
rapid growth of domestic demand relative to output, the rate of inflation
increased in 1977 to a modest 7.6 percent. The inflation rate was restrained
by a substantial rise in the supply of imported goods. As a result, the
current account deficit grew from $10.4 million in 1976 to $95.6 million in
1977. A portion of this deficit was covered by direct foreign investment,
and the remainder by $65 million in external public borrowing (including a
$30 million, Eurocredit loan) and $6 million in short-term borrowing.
8.        In 1978, the GDP growth rate decelerated and is estimated to have
been somewhat over 6 percent; unemployment dropped to about 2 percent of the
labor force. The merchandise trade deficit, however, is estimated to have
increased due to the more rapid rate of import growth relative to exports.
Despite improvement in tourism and workers remittances, the current account
deficit is estimated to be about $148 million. This has been essentially
covered by an inflow of medium to long term private and public capital
(including a $40 million Eurocredit loan signed in July 1978), and a slight
draw-down of reserves to the equivalent of five months of imports of goods and
non-factor services.
Future Prospects
9.         The pace and shape of future economic development will depend
largely on the political situation. The thrust of the proposed Third Emer-
gency Economic Action Plan (1979-81) seems sound in terms of general objec-
tives, given the assumption of a continuation of the political status quo.
The Government intends to exploit the limited natural resource base of that
part of the! island under its control. It envisages a 5 percent per annum
growth in GDP. The investment program, about $750 million for three years,
will be directed as follows: 15 percent to agriculture, 25 to 30 percent to
manufacturing, a similar amount to construction and tourism, and the remainder
to other sectors. During the Third Plan period, Cyprus will need to: (i)
accelerate the modernization of agriculture, extend irrigation, expand the
production of new exportable crops and provide a better marketing and trans-
port system; and (ii) broaden its manufacturing base and gradually transform



- 4 -
some of its export industries to create somewhat larger and more competitive
enterprises, besides modernizing the small-scale units which currently dominate
the sector.
10.       Cyprus has several favorable factors to sustain economic growth:
some unutilized water resources, although these are difficult to harness;
dynamic and resourceful entrepreneurs; skilled labor; lower wage levels than
in continental Europe; and favorable location in relation to Middle Eastern
markets. The envisaged 5 percent GDP growth rate in the Third Plan appears
feasible, given the good prospects for export expansion particularly to
Middle-Eastern countries, the gradual re-establishment of the tourist industry
and the substantial inflow of capital. In the longer-term, growth in export-
oriented manufacturing and agriculture will depend on achieving efficiency,
competitive prices, and consistently high quality. To ensure this, it will
be necessary to selectively restructure industry over the medium-term, and
develop agriculture export capabilities on a systematic basis.
11.       Given the capital requirements to achieve these aims, and despite
good prospects for export growth, the overall balance of payments outlook over
the medium and longer-term will depend on the country's ability to further
increase its level of external borrowing, while maintaining a more ample level
of reserves than is currently normal elsewhere. In Cyprus' special political
circumstances, this appears to be a prudent course.
12.       Given the uncertainties of its political situation, Cyprus' recent
experience in mobilizing external resources has been rather encouraging. It
successfully raised Eurodollar borrowings in late 1977 of $30 million, fol-
lowed in July 1978 by a $40 million loan, both syndicated by Chase Manhattan,
and another loan of $10 million in November 1978 syndicated by Bank of America.
The country is beginning to attract significant export and supplier credits.
These forms of external borrowing are perhaps indicative of the future, since
access to long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral support is
expected to continue to be limited. Despite the gradual resumption of German
(KfW), UK (ODM) and Council of Europe assistance, three quart:ers of future
public external borrowings to cover the projected current acc:ount deficits
will have to come from commercial sources either export or supplier credits,
or commercial bank loans. Bank efforts to date have not only been directed
towards encouraging Cyprus to diversify its sources of official aid, but also
to use Bank projects as catalysts to attract other external support, includ-
ing possible co-financing with commercial banks. Thus, Cyprus has obtained
co-financing from the Kuwait Fund for the Nicosia-Limassol Highway Project
(Loan No. 1344-CY). That Fund is also considering similar financing for the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project. Financial assistance from the Council of
Europe filled the external financing gap in the Pitsilia Rural Development
Project (Loan No. 1483-CY); export or supplier credit financing in the pro-
curement of selected equipment in the Second Ports Project (Loan No. 1540-CY)
is becoming available because of Bank financing. Despite these successes,
Cyprus' access to external funds is still limited compared to its needs or
that demande- by its considerable economic potential.  Medium term growth is
therefore likely to cemain at a moderate level, and below that attained in the
lq6 's ~nn4   : -ing thE receiLt recovery period.



13.       Cyprus' external debt has remained low, because of the Government's
past policy of financing development from internal resources and its limited
borrowing ability in the present political context. Total long-term public
debt outstanding and disbursed was $162 million as of December 31, 1977.
Public debt: service was only 3 percent of exports in 1977. Given the pros-
pects, mentioned in paragraph 12, increasing reliance on relatively hard
commercial financing, debt service is projected to rise to about 12 percent
of goods and non-factor services by the mid 1980s. The Bank's share of debt
outstanding and disbursed declined from 51 percent in 1974, to 25 percent at
the end of 1977. Its share in debt service declined from 45 percent in 1974
to 35 perceant in 1977. The Bank's financial support has helped Cyprus over-
come its rielative inability to borrow abroad during the 1960s and early 1970s.
The Bank's exposure, although still high, is reasonable. It is expected to
continue to decline steadily, as Cyprus continues to diversify its sources of
external borrowings. Given Cyprus' low external debt and debt service ratio,
and the Government's record of excellent economic management, the country is
creditworthy for additional Bank borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
14.       Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of April 30, 1979 it
comprised fifteen loans totalling $115.5 million (net of cancellations), of
which $98.4 million was held by the Bank. These include four power loans
($31.6 million), two highway loans ($15.4 million), two loans to the Cyprus
Development Bank (CDB) ($8.9 million), two sewerage loans ($4.6 million), an
irrigation loan ($14.0 million); an integrated rural development loan ($10.0
million); a water resource development loan ($11.0 million); and two loans for
port development ($20.0 million). Details of Bank loans to Cyprus are given
in Annex II.
15.       The events of 1974 caused a temporary break in Bank operations until
June 1976, and resulted in delays in the execution of some projects. In
particular, the execution of the following projects was affected: (i) the
sewerage project in Famagusta, which lies entirely in the area controlled by
the Turkish Cypriots; and (ii) the construction of the Nicosia-Morphou high-
way, the alignment of which coincides with the cease-fire line. The Nicosia
Sewerage Project, which straddles the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot areas
of Nicosia, was also uncompleted. However, as a result of the initiative of
the UNDP and the Bank, Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot cooperation on this
matter was obtained and a formal agreement to complete the project reached in
*          September 1978.  These arrangements are now being efficiently implemented by
both sides. Consequently, the project is expected to be completed in 1980, in
a way that will benefit both communities. This development, which will need
careful nurturing by both sides, offers some promise for further cooperation
between the two communities with respect to other ongoing, and possibly
future, projects. The Bank, together with UNDP, will continue efforts to
promote su,ch cooperation.
16.       The Bank's objectives in Cyprus are to finance projects to meet the
needs for higher productivity and exports; invest in essential infrastructure



which can be justified in the context of the whole island; and cooperate in
attracting long-term development capital from other sources. When a political
settlement is reached, the Bank would seek to: help both communities through
support of projects to improve living standards of those groups left out of
the growing prosperity prior to 1974; and encourage development of a national
water policy and those other resources on which both communities are dependent.
Projects likely to materialize over the next two fiscal years include those to
further support power system development, promote fruit and vegetable exports,
and upgrade the island's road network.
17.       IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive.  IFC has most recently invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant, and
is currently exploring opportunities for further investment on the island.
As of April 30, 1979, gross commitments totalled $3.6 million, of which $2.4
million are still held by IFC. Details of IFC investments in Cyprus are
given in Annex II.
PART III - INDUSTRY, TOURISM AND BANKING
Industry
18.       Industry consists largely of family owned companies oriented prim-
arily toward the production of construction materials and traditional consumer
goods, such as food processing, clothing and footwear, with overall growth
restricted by limited technical and managerial knowhow, and financial means.
Small enterprises, of less than 5 employees per unit, constituted 83 percent
of all industrial establishments in the south in 1976, with enterprises of 5
to 19 employees making up 12 percent, and those with 20 or more employees,
making up the remaining 5 percent. Industrial employment represented about 20
percent of total employment in 1977.
19.       The events of 1974 produced considerable disruption in the sector,
stemming largely from the dislocation and loss of established domestic markets
and the loss of inputs from northern Cyprus, which was a major source of raw
materials for enterprises in the south. In addition, full employment was
replaced by an unemployment rate of about 16 percent in the south. Unemploy-
ment in northern Cyprus is reported to have been much higher. To overcome
these difficuties, the Government introduced extensive measures to: (i)
encourage the creation of new export-oriented industries; (ii) increase the
utilization of existing resources; and (iii) foster the establishment and
expansion of new labor-intensive small scale industries (SSI), in support of
which an SSI component was included in the last Bank loan to CDB. These
measures included new tax incentives to encourage mergers and attract foreign
companies to Cyprus, Government guarantees of up to 75 percent of commercial
bank loans to industry, establishment of a special Central Bank fund for lend-
ing to priority sectors, and rehabilitation of CDB, which had been seriously
affected by the 1974 events, to enable it to assist in reactivating the
economy.



- 7 -
20.       These measures, combined with Cyprus' comparative advantages in
human resources and geographical location (paragraph 10) resulted in a rapid
recovery of the sector in the south. As a result manufacturing output for the
south has now reached the 1973 island-wide level, with the share of manu-
facturing value added in GDP increasing from 15 percent in 1975 to 18 percent
in 1977. The most important contributors to this growth were footwear and
clothing, cement, and food and beverages. In addition, the post-1974 era has
also seen the emergence of new industries producing chemicals, machinery, and
equipment goods, which in 1977 contributed about 19 percent to total output.
21.       Exports of manufactured goods from the south also increased substan-
tially from CL 24 million in 1975, to CL 65 million in 1977, with exports
constituting 33 percent of manufacturing gross output in 1977. While coun-
tries of the EEC and particularly the UK continue as major markets for Cypriot
products, in the past few years Arab countries have become the prodominant
market for manufactured exports, including cement, clothing and footwear. The
share of Cypriot exports to eastern European countries has correspondingly
declined. Given the unpredictability of some Middle Eastern markets, Cyprus
aims at expanding and opening new markets in Europe, particularly in the EEC,
which has granted Cyprus duty free entry for most of its manufactured goods.
However, penetration of European markets will require a substantial effort,
especially for consumer goods, to achieve higher quality and productivity.
22.       Hiaving successfully resolved the sector's critical problems after
1974, the Government now faces a number of other constraints impeding sus-
tained future growth and export potential. These stem from (i) the current
tight employment situation, especially in construction and manufacturing,
although this may be eased once construction contracts won by Cypriots in the
Middle East. are completed, and a large portion of Cypriot workers now abroad
begin returning; (ii) increasing labor costs; and (iii) low productivity
resulting from the fragmented nature of the manufacturing sector and high
incidence of small enterprises with relatively low investments.
23.       lo cope with these constraints, the Third Emergency Economic Action
Plan, proposes a two-pronged strategy to promote, (i) the development of
larger, more capital intensive industries based on local raw materials (cement,
gypsum, clays, pyrites), or on Cyprus' comparative advantages (location, and
skilled labor force); and (ii) the rationalization and modernization of the
fragmented industries, in particular SSI, to increase their productivity and
ability to export. The straLtegy also calls for manpower training or retrain-
ing to increase productivity and tackle the current problem of labor shortages,
and foster and improve product marketing. The proposed Bank lending through
CDB will directly support Government objectives in the south of broadening the
manufacturing base and providing badly needed resources to entrepreneurs who
have been successful in iderLtifying viable export-oriented industry. Bank
lending to CDB will also support a reorientation of the ongoing SSI program.
This program is no longer seen primarily as a means to create jobs, although
there is a possibility that unemployment in the south may increase with the
eventual return of exported labor, and as new entrants enter the labor force.
Rather, the program is largely envisaged as an important vehicle to help
strengthen and modernize the small scale industries which now dominate the



- 8 -
sector, but which given their size often lack adequate access to investment
resources. It will also assist in developing new industries and making SSI
more competitive internationally.
24.       In contrast to the above, the reactivation and development of
the industrial sector in the north appears, on the basis of rather limited
information, to have proceeded at a considerably slower pace, reflecting
serious difficulties in mobilizing foreign and domestic resources for invest-
ment, and the shortage of skilled manpower and technical resources. Expansion
of manufacturing output has been further constrained by the continuing lack of
adequate foreign exchange to purchase raw materials and spare parts. To
overcome these constraints, a principal objective of economic policy in the
north is to expand commercial links abroad and develop exports based on
locally available resources. Possible Bank support for industry and tourism
in the north, should the present dialogue with both sides bear fruit, could
help relieve some of these constraints.
Tourism
25.       The tourism industry, which boomed in the 1960s and early 1970s,
also suffered severely following the events of 1974. Not only was tourism
traffic temporarily halted, but about 64 percent of the tourist beds, mainly
in the highly developed resorts of Kyrenia and Famagusta, were located
in the north and thus remained for the most part empty. Although some hotels
in the north have since been reopened, a large portion of the available
capacity remains unutilized. Hotels in the uninhabited part of Famagusta are
vacant, and would likely require considerable reinvestment for their rehab-
ilitation in the event of a political settlement. Expansion of tourism in the
north is constrained by the lack of sufficient trained manpower and difficul-
ties faced in establishing links with foreign tourist agencies. As a result
practically all the tourists coming to northern Cyprus are from Turkey and
hard currency earnings from tourism are known to be quite limited at present.
26.       Tourism in the south is making an increasingly rapid recovery.  New
construction has increased the number of beds from 4,000 in 1975 to 7,000 in
1978; this number is expected to increase to 11,200 by 1981, and reach 25,000
by 1985. The inflow of tourist and other longer-term visitors is expected
to double from 216,000 in 1978 to 432,000 in 1983. Present demand for hotel
space during the main tourist season continues to be well in excess of avail-
able accommodations. The Government has played an active role both in promot-
ing major tourist projects and providing low interest loans, exemption from
import duties on equipment for hotel construction, as well as investment
allowances. Additional financing is being provided by commercial banks, CDB,
and private sources. Although it is difficult to forecast the long-range
potential for tourism in the south, the recent increases in tourist arrivals
in the south, and relatively high occupancy ratio throughout the year, would
seem to support the Government's projections for continued rapid development
of the sector, assuming continued political stability and completion of on-
going and pl?nned new investments. In view of the large potential for tourism



- 9 -
in the island, no serious adverse effects on the newly constructed hotels in
the south are anticipated in the long term, even if a political settlement
makes it possible to rehabilitate and upgrade hotel capacity in north Cyprus.
The Banking System
27.       I'he financial community in Cyprus includes the Central Bank, six
foreign owned banks and several domestic banks. Two cooperative banks, three
financial institutions providing long-term assistance (including CDB), and the
Loan Commissioners complete the banking structure. The Loan Commissioners is
a Government agency lending directly or through banks to industry, hotels,
agriculture, and for village and other community projects. As Cypriots have
traditionally preferred to keep savings in liquid form, the savings and
commercial banks have been the main mobilizers of savings. The security
market is virtually non-existent.
28.       l'o stimulate economic recovery and reactivate the financial sector
after 1974, the Government initiated a program to provide incentives for
bank lending and mechanisms for financing priority sectors. These included:
(i) reduction of the minimum liquidity ratio for banks and penalties for
excessive liquidity, (ii) creation of a special Central Bank fund to finance
Government approved priority investments in construction and manufacturing
and, (iii) Government guarantees for up to 75 percent of bank loans for
approved priority investments.
29.       As part of its reactivation policy, the Government also established
an interest: rate ceiling of 9 percent per annum for all loans, to prevent
interest charges from acting as a barrier to new investments needed to create
employment and stimulate exports for the shattered economy in the area under
Government control. CDB currently lends at the maximum permissible rate.
Given the relative domestic price stability that has since been maintained and
moderate level of inflation which peaked at 8.3 percent in 1978 (but which is
projected l:o decline gradually over the next 3 years to about 6 percent by
1981), the present interest rate has been, and is expected to remain sufficient
to maintain a positive real interest rate. This rate adequately reflects the
5.5 to 7.5 percent per annum cost of borrowing within Cyprus to meet both
local and J^oreign exchange needs of institutional borrowers (since the Cypriot
Pound is freely convertible').  However, it tends to underestimate the cost of
borrowing abroad, which CDB proposes to undertake in the coming three years to
cover its resource gap. In view of this, and since interest rate adjustments
require legislative approva'L which is often difficult to obtain and at best
time-consuming, the Ministry of Finance is currently preparing legislation,
which if passed, would enabLe the Ministry to react more quickly and with
greater flexibility to changing economic conditions requiring interest rate
adjustments. Once this leg[slation is approved, the Government has indicated
that it intends to adjust the interest rate ceiling, when economic conditions
warrant. The Bank supports this initiative as part of the continuing dialogue
which the Bank has maintained with the Government on the matter of interest
rates. We intend to continue this dialogue and review the appropriate interest
rate level for medium and long-term lending to industry with the Government
from time to time as may be necessary.



- 10 -
30.       At present, the Government is continuing to channel long-term fi-
nance to the economy through two main channels: the Loan Commissioners who
provide soft term loans for agriculture, tourism projects and local communi-
ties from Government funds, and CDB which lends for manufacturing and tourism.
CDB lends exclusively at long and medium term, but takes no deposits and so
relies in part on Government funds for its resources. The commercial banks
and CDB see each others roles as complementary, and work together to provide
short and long term financing respectively for financially sound and economic-
ally attractive projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
31.       The proposed project is the third operation in support of CDB, which
received its first Bank loan ($3 million) in 1972, and its second ($6 million)
in 1976 after the Government and CDB, with Bank assistance, had undertaken a
program to restore and ensure CDB's financial viability after the events of
1974. Implementation of the first loan, which helped finance the foreign
exchange component of 17 projects, was delayed by the events of 1974 and not
fully disbursed until January 1976. A Project Performance Audit Report dated
November 17, 1976, has been circulated to the Executive Directors. It indi-
cates that although the choice of sub-projects was satisfactory, the Bank's
impact on strengthening CDB as an institution was limited and was further
affected by the 1974 events. Since 1975, however, the Bank has played a much
more active role in providing technical assistance to CDB, and assisting in
its institutional development. The second loan comprised two components:
$750,000 for SSI (see paragraphs 36-37), and $5.25 million for normal opera-
tions. This loan is now fully committed, and is expected to be fully dis-
bursed before the Closing Date of June 30, 1981. It has helped finance 64 SSI
projects, and 34 other projects, of which 26 were in manufacturing. Of the 26
industrial projects, about 60 percent were either export oriented or designed
for both export and for import substitution.
32.       The proposed project was appraised in January 1979.  Negotiations
were held in Washington in May 1979. The CDB delegation was headed by
Mr. Joannides, General Manager of CDB. The Guarantor was represented by
Mr. Theophylou of the Ministry of Finance.
Project Concept and Objectives
33.       The proposed loan of $5 million, is estimated to cover one-quarter
of CDB's total foreign exchange needs over a two-year period beginning in
mid-1979. $4.0 million will help finance CDB loans to, and equity investments
in, foreign exchange earning enterprises in the industrial and tourism
sectors. $1.0 million, with matching Government funds, will help finance the
continuation of the small scale industries (SSI) scheme described in paragraph
38 below. This thrust is designed to support the present national objectives



- 11 -
of (i) increasing Cyprus' foreign exchange earning capacity and strengthening
its balance of payments, and (ii) improving the efficiency and productivity of
the manufacturing sector, including SSIs.  Other than for SSIs, no change in
CDB's criteria for project selection, evaluation, and approval is foreseen.
The details of the project are provided in the attached Loan and Project
summary and Annex III. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled A Third Loan to the
Cyprus Development Bank (No. 2471-CY), dated June 14, 1979 is being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors.
34.       The proposed project also aims at facilitating CDB's efforts to
mobilize needed foreign exchange resources from commercial institutions. This
represents a new direction for CDB, and Bank support at this juncture should
help enhance CDB's marketability, particularly since commercial institutions
tend to prefer initiating such lending in conjunction with Bank lending.
Moreover, the longer term Bank monies, when blended with the shorter, more
medium term Euro-currency borrowings, will ease CDB's entry into the commer-
cial market. In addition, there is some room for anticipating that viable
arrangements might be worked out by the Bank with both sides, at an appro-
priate time, to enable CDB to finance some sub-projects in northern Cyprus.
However, in view of the difficult political and legal questions involved, it
may take some time to develop such workable arrangements.
The Loan
35.       Sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan
will be provided for a maximum period of 15 years, including a maximum grace
period of 3 years. Possible financing of CDB's equity investments will have a
maturity of 10 years, includling 4 years grace. All sub-borrowers would bear
an interest charge at the present maximum ceiling of at least 9 percent per
annum (Loan Agreement Section 3.07(b)).  The foreign exchange risks will be
borne by the Government. Given the consistently high standards of CDB's
appraisal work and the general increase in prices of imported equipment, the
free limit is proposed to be increased from the $200,000 limit set under the
second CDB project, to $350,000. No aggregate free limit is considered
necessary. Based on CDB's project pipeline, it is expected that the Bank
would reviebw about 6 projects, which is considered adequate. The minimum
financial and economic rates; of return for CDB financed projects will be 12
percent, whLich is in line with CDB's current policy.
Small Scale Industries
36.       Faced with the urgent need to regenerate a large number of small-
scale businesses and create additional job opportunities for the large number
of unemplolted workers, the Government and the Bank agreed in 1976 to include
an SSI component in the second CDB loan to promote the establishment and



- 12 -
development of such labor-intensive industries. Under that program, loans
were made to SSI having an employment range of 4-19 persons. The maximum
investment cost after project implementation was set at CL 20,000, with the
CDB loan covering up to 75 percent of the total project cost. The maximum
cost per job created was set at CL 4,000. $750,000 was allocated from the
Bank loan to finance the SSI program, with the possibility of providing an
additional $750,000 should this be needed. For its part, the Government (i)
provided matching funds at 5.5 percent p.a. on the same maturity terms as the
Bank financed loans; (ii) guaranteed 75 percent of CDB's SS] loans outstanding
and (iii) agreed to pay CDB any administrative costs in excess of gross income
from the SSI operation.  The program was administrated by CDB, with technical
assistance being provided by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which
collected and screened SSI loan application before passing them on to CDB's
SSI unit established for this purpose.
37.        Although the Program experienced initial administrative diffi-
culties, as a result of which the first SSI sub-loans were not approved until
mid-1977, the program has since moved forward rapidly. Both Bank and match-
ing Government funds were fully committed by the end of 1978 as originally
expected. A total of 64 SSI loans were eventually approved out of a total of
260 applications. The average size of the approved loans was CL 9,200, at an
average cost per job of about CL 2,300. A total of 250 jobs have been or will
be generated under the scheme.
38.        Both Government and CDB wish to continue the SSI program, but with
a different emphasis, since rapid employment generation is no longer an urgent
national priority. The reoriented SSI program will continue to support the
establishment of new SSI as appropriate, but will give greater emphasis to
the strengthening and modernization of existing SSI, including mergers, to
make them competitive internationally and promote exports. However, financing
of promising new SSI, seen by the Government as necessary to develop new
industries and entrepreneurial talent, will also be an objective. The present
system of Government support for the SSI program will be maintained, but given
the smooth functioning of the initial program, the Government guarantee on new
SSI loans has been reduced from 75 to 50 percent. This change was suggested
by CDB itself. Twenty percent of the Bank loan ($1.0 million) will be allo-
cated to the SSI scheme to cover foreign exchange costs only. As in the past,
the Bank funds would be matched with Government funds (Guarantee Agreement
Section 2.02(iii)). To promote the development of more efficient, export
oriented SSI, the maximum employee parameters for SSI have been extended from
4-19 to 4-39. In addition, the maximum project cost is being increased from
CL 20,000 to CL 30,000, with maximum fixed assets before project implementa-
tion fixed at CL 20,000, or CL 30,000 in case of mergers.  To facilitate
expansion or mergers of existing SSI, the financing of low-cost industrial
buildings will be allowed, provided the SSI involved have operated profitably
for at least two years; the latter condition is considered necessary to avoid
speculation in buildings by nonproven SSI. Moreover, the SSI would give
assurances satisfactory to CDB that they would occupy the building for at
least 2 years after completion. The maximum cost per job criterion is no
longer considered appropriate, given the changed orientation of the program,



- 13 -
and since the CL 30,000 (US$84,000) ceiling on SSI project cost excludes for
the most part heavily capital intensive investments, such as in chemicals,
cement and mining. However, the remaining parameters are considered adequate
to ensure that the allocated funds are directed towards SSI development. The
details of the SSI scheme are reflected in the loan documents (Loan Agreement
Section 3.03 and Schedule 3).
The Borrower
39.       CDB was established at the initiative of the Government in 1963 to
provide long-term finance to manufacturing and service enterprises. Sixty
percent of its share capital of CL 1 million was held by Government in non-
voting shares and the remainder by private shareholders. In most respects,
CDB operated as private institution, and its Board was drawn largely from
the private sector. After a slow start, CDB's level of operations rose to a
temporary peak in 1973, with the approval of 31 new projects for a total of
CL 1.5 million. Operations were severely affected by the events of 1974 since
half of CDB's total loan portfolio and a third of its equity portfolio related
to enterprises in the north. With this portfolio (including accrued interest)
amounting to CL 2.9 million virtually lost, CDB would have been insolvent
without Government intervention.
40.       The Government, recognizing the important role CDB could play in
supporting efforts to reactivate the economy, subsequently undertook, in con-
sultation with the Bank, a number of measures to restore CDB's credit worthi-
ness. As part of these arrangements, the Government (i) acquired all of CDB's
voting shares, (ii) agreed to provide CDB with grants and guarantees of pay-
ment to offset past and future non-payment of principal and interest on the
northern area portfolio and (iii) provided additional grants to compensate for
CDB's losses due to its small equity holdings in the north.
41.       As of March 1, 1979, CDB's authorized share capital was CL 3 mil-
lion, of which CL 1 million was paid in capital. This consists of 400,000
"A" voting shares acquired by the Government in 1976 from private investors,
and 600,000 "B" non-voting shares held by the Government since CDB's estab-
lishment. As compensation to the 960 private holders of "A" shares, the
Government has issued non-voting preference shares carrying a dividend of
5 percent per annum which are to be redeemed at par by the Government in
1988.
42.       As a result of the above arrangements, CDB's Board of Directors
was reorganized. The new Board, as constituted in 1976, consists of seven
directors: four, including the chairman, are selected from among independent
and experienced private sector leaders, and three are appointed by the Govern-
ment from members of the Civil Service or Government controlled corporations.
The composition of the Board, and a quorum system which requires that at least
two private sector and one Government director be present, provides a reason-
able safeguard for an autonomous Board policy and operation.
43.       I;n accordance with arrangements agreed between the Bank and CDB at
the time of the second CDB loan to meet projected increases in the work load,
including staffing of the S'IS program, CDB's professional staff has been



- 14 -
almost doubled since 1976. CDB's staff now totals 31, of which 18 are profes-
sionals. The staff and management are capable and experienced, and are con-
sidered fully able to carry out CDB's projected work load.
44.       CDB's technical, financial and economic appraisal work is of high
quality. Its market studies are expected to be further improved with the
recent addition of a market analyst. Project supervision has also been
strengthened with the addition of new staff and the assignment of an Assistant
General Manager with full responsibility for supervision activities. As a
result financial and technical supervision is satisfactory, including super-
vision of SSI projects.
CDB's Recent Operational Performance
45.       Since its establishment through 1975, CDB approvals have amounted
to CL 8 million. Annual approvals reached a peak in 1973, but declined
sharply in 1974 and 1975 as a result of the economic dislocation and uncer-
tainty over the future course of CDB. Since then operations have increased
substantially, with approvals amounting to CL 9.3 million in the period 1976
through 1978. Approvals in 1978 alone totaled CL 4.5 million. In addition
CL 0.6 million in loans was approved under the SSI scheme. During the past
three years loans to industry accounted for 59 percent of total approvals,
followed by 29 percent for tourism, 9 percent for transport and 3 percent for
agriculture, which closely resembles the pre-1974 investment breakdown.
46.       During the past three years CDB has given increasing emphasis to
project promotion through equity participation. At the end of 1978, CDB
held participations in 19 Greek Cypriot companies compared with 4 at the end
of 1975, with the proportion of equity investments in its total portfolio
doubling to 8.6 percent during the same three-year period. The majority of
CDB's equity investments are in industry. Since 1975, however, the portfolio
has been expanded to include tourism, transport and banking.
47.       Although CDB's overall profitability has been adequate, it improved
significantly following the Government's decision in early 1979, retroactive
to January 1, 1978, to cover the foreign exchange risk, compensate CDB for
exchange losses incurred since the end of 1977, and compensate CDB for all
costs of existing foreign borrowings above 6 percent, retroactive also to
January 1, 1978. During negotiations the Government has agreed to bear the
foreign exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan and other future foreign
borrowings (Guarantee Agreement Section 2.01 and Loan Agreement Section 4.07).
These actions by Government were considered necessary in the short term to
enable CDB to undertake external commercial borrowing and to remain competi-
tive with commercial banks in Cyprus, given the present interest rate structure
and the free convertibility of the Cypriot Pound. Nevertheless, both the
Government and CDB acknowledge that the long term objective is to gradually
reduce the need for Government support of CDB, and that the extent of that
support will be reviewed as appropriate, including at such time as changes in
the interes- rate regime become feasible (paragraph 29). In the meantime, CDB
has indicate- that :t will request additional compensation to cover future



- 15 -
borrowings, only as needed, to maintain a spread of about three percentage
points to ensure sufficient profitability without which potential foreign
commercial banks are unlikely to continue to lend to CDB. We intend to review
this matter as part of our continuing dialogue with CDB and the Government.
As a consequence of these actions, CDB's return on average net worth increased
from 1.5 percent in 1977 to 15.0 percent in 1978. CDB's debt equity ratio was
4.7:1 at the end of 1978, which is within the agreed limit of 5:1. CDB's
overall financial situation at the end of 1978 was balanced and sound.
48.        CDB's disbursements have accounted for 5 to 9 percent of total
investments in industry since 1972, and 4 to 20 percent of investments in
tourism.  CDB's relative role in the economy therefore continues to be modest.
Nevertheless, as the only institution providing long term financing on the
basis of thorough financial and economic appraisals, it continues to serve as
an important tool for the development of sound projects. CDB's role in pro-
moting sound projects has expanded in recent years with the increase in equity
participation and through its role in promoting and carefully scrutinizing
many of the larger more capital intensive projects being encouraged by the
Government under the third Emergency Economic Action Plan.
49.        Arrears in principal of over three months have increased slightly
from 3.3 percent of the loan portfolio to 3.7 percent between 1977 and 1978.
This is satisfactory in viewr of a portfolio growth of 36 percent in 1978. The
proportion of portfolio affected by these arrears has increased from 10.9
percent to 12.8 percent, mainly because of one subproject, whose difficulties
CDB does not currently consider serious. However, at the end of 1978 the
portfolio affected by serious arrears was only 2 percent.  In addition, past
due maturities representing 4.2 percent of the loan portfolio as of end-1978
are subjected to rescheduling. Provisions amounted to 4.8 percent of the loan
portfolio at the end of 1978, and adequately covered CDB's risk of losses.
Future Prospects and Resources
50.       Assuming continuecl political stability, and given the manufacturing
and tourism sector's potential, CDB's business prospects are good.  The
projected normal operations of CDB for the next five years (excluding SSI
operations) are expected to generate approvals totalling CL 21.6 million,
commitments of CL 22.1 million and disbursements of CL 20.5 million. These
projections take into account prospective operations already identified for
1979 (24 loan operations and 5 equity participations for a total of CL 1.8
million) and assume thereaft-er a 10 percent rate of growth for loans to
industry and an annual ceiling of CL 1 million for tourism projects. Given
the buoyancy of the economy in the south and the dynamism of Cypriot entre-
preneurs, these assumptions appear reasonable.
51.       As of December 31, 1978, CDB had mobilized resources totalling CL
15.7 million, of which 62 percent was in local currency. The bulk of local
currency resources has been provided by the Government in the form of guar-
anteed debenture stocks and through the Loan Commissioners (see paragraph 27).
The Government has also provided matching funds for the financing of SSI proj-
ects, as provided for under the Bank's second loan to CDB. As of the end of



- 16 -
1978, CDB's outstanding foreign borrowings totalled CL 5.2 million and con-
sisted of CL 2.1 million equivalent from KFW, CL 0.1 million equivalent from
the Export Credit Guarantee Department of the UK, and CL 3.1 million equiv-
alent from the Bank. As of the end of 1978 all local and foreign currency
resources had been fully committed, with an additional CL 2.2 million in
approvals committed beyond available resources, given the expectation that
additional funds will have been obtained prior to the need for actual dis-
bursement.
52.       Based on its projected commitments for the three year period 1979-
1981, CDB will need about CL 13.7 million; CL 3.2 million in local currency
and CL 10.7 million ($30 million) in foreign exchange. Local currency
resources will be met through CDB's self-generated resources and Government
funds. Foreign exchange resources will be met from the proposed Bank loan
($5.0 million), with the remaining $25 million to be borrowed by CDB from
commercial banks with a Government guarantee. Of this latter amount an
estimated $5.0 million is needed by CDB on a more immediate basis to cover
its foreign exchange requirements for 1979. To ensure availability of these
funds when needed, confirmation that a minimum of $5.0 million in additional
resources has been raised by CDB is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement Sections 3.08 and 6.01). CDB will cover its 1979 local currency
requirements through the issue of debenture stock, under Government repayment
and Central Bank marketability guarantees respectively, in an amount of at
least CL 1,300,000 at the current rate of 7.5 percent per annum. The Guarantor
has agreed to ensure availability of these resources under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank (Guarantee Agreement
Section 2.02).
53.       During 1978, discussions were held by CDB with major U.S. and
European banks for the mobilization of foreign resources. By the end of
March 1979, following appraisal of CDB for the proposed loan, preliminary
negotiations had been concluded with commercial banks, one American and one
European for two separate $5 million Eurodollar issues on favorable terms
over LIBOR for eight years. In addition, CDB is negotiating a set of buyer
credit facilities in several countries, including possible reactivation of
a U.S. Exim Bank facility approved in 1972. Some foreign banks, plus IFC,
have also suggested to CDB the possibility of financing sub-projects on
an ad hoc basis. In sum, CDB should not have much difficulty in securing
additional resources in the coming years, especially in view of the Govern-
ment's guarantee on its borrowings, CDB's satisfactory debt-equity ratio, low
arrears adequately covered by provisions, and assurances of continued good
profitability.
54.       Given the projected growth of its portfolio and corresponding
borrowing needs, CDB's debt-equity ceiling of 5:1 (established at the time of
the first Bank loan to CDB in 1972) would be reached in 1979. Taking into
account CDB's low arrears and its good overall performance, it is proposed
that the debt-equity limit be increased to 7.5:1 (Loan Agreement Section
4.06). Sin'-e projections indicate that this revised limit would be reached by
mid-1980, the Government has agreed to convert CL 1 million of CDB's debt to
>e L 'n   ~niission--'s into equity in 1980, thus further strengthening CDB's
eilli-b-     r< ?..1 in   g its resource mobilization efforts (Guarantee Agree-
rnent  rtis:.O  



- 17 -
55.       C])B's debt service coverage is expected to drop initially from a
level of 1.5:1 in 1979 to 0.9:1 in 1980, because of the prepayment of the
CL 1 millioni to the Loan Commissioners.  However, no actual cash outlay is
involved, sLnce it will take the form of a conversion of debt into equity.
It would then increase to 1.7:1 in 1981, but would subsequently return 'o a
comfortable 1.3:1 during the following two years. On the basis of expected
funding and operations CDB's return on average net worth is expected to
increase from 10.6 percent in 1979 to 17.9 percent in 1983.
56.       Procurement and Disbursements.  CDB requires its borrowers to
submit competitive tenders for machinery and equipment, except in very small
projects or in special circumstances. The procurement procedures are con-
sidered appropriate. The proceeds of the proposed loan would finance:
(a)  1D0 percent of the CIF cost of directly imported equipmtent,
(b)  83 percent of the cost of imported equipment purchased in
Cyprus,
(c)  55 percent of the cost of civil works construction, which
is the estimated import component, and
(d)  50 percent of the amounts disbursed by CDB for SSI loans,
with total CDB disbursements not to exceed 75 percent of SSI
project cost.
Disbursements are expected to commence by the third quarter of 1979, with
possible retroactive financing of up to three months prior to the loan sign-
ing for the SSI program (Loan Agreement Section 2.03 (e)). The loan proceeds
are expected to be committed before end 1981 and fully disbursed by end 1982.
57.       Project Benefits and Risks.  The loan will finance the development
of foreign exchange earning manufacturing industries, as well as tourist
facilities. The development of these sectors will make a substantial contri-
bution to reducing the balance of trade gap, which was equal to 53% of imports
during the first half of 1978.
58.       Blased on a survey of industries already financed by CDB, and assum-
ing that projects to be finaLnced will continue past trends, each $1.0 million
invested by CDB in export-oriented industries over the period 1979-81 would
create additional annual exports also worth approximately $1.0 million per
year by 1981. The net additional annual foreign exchange earnings from
exports, using the conservative value added figures, would amount to $0.4
million per year by 1981 for each $1.0 million of such CDB investments. This
excludes the additional foreign exchange savings due to import substitution,
the magnitude of which could not be estimated.
59.       Similar rough estiLmates can be made for the tourism industry.
According 1:O best estimates,, about 75% of gross tourist receipts is net



- 18 -
foreign exchange earnings, with the remainder being used for imports to
satisfy the tourists' requirements. Based on projected increases in hotel
capacity and past tourist expenditures per available hotel bed, $1.0 million
invested by CDB in hotels over the period 1979-1981 would assist in creating
net additional foreign exchange earnings of approximately $1.5 million per
year by 1981.
60.       The proposed loan, together with a Government guarantee for CDB's
borrowings, will also assist CDB in attracting additional commercial foreign
exchange resources. Finally, the loan will permit the continuation of the SSI
program conceived under the previous Bank loan. The SSI program is valuable
as a breeding ground for new industrial enterprises and entrepreneurs, much
needed to sustain the projected development of the Cyprus economy.
61.       The risks, barring political upheavals on the island or a major
worldwide recession, are small. CDB is a mature institution with capable
management, and increasingly profitable while still following sound financial
and economic policies. It works in close cooperation with the Government, the
commercial banks and industry. The funds provided by the Bank are catalytic
in nature, and cover only a fraction of CDB's resource requirements based on
operational projections; there is little doubt that the Bank loan will be
committed on schedule.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Cyprus Development Bank, Ltd
and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
3 of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 14, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-19-                                            Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
CYIPUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REllRlNCl G0UPS9 (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LARD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Km.)                  CY_U5                           - MOST  TEG_        NEXT HIGNER
TOTAL              9.3                                                    SANK         sAmE      U  HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       5.3                                 MOST UCEWr       GEOGRAPRIC    INC01IE      INCOME
1965  bk170L ESTIMATE /b               EINLj 001 j              RU
GgP PER CAPITA (USS)                  430.0       960.0    1740.0           1898.8      1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTIOIN PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     829.0       1380.0    1278.0           1869.3      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATIQN, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         0.6          0.63      0.67
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.C         39.1       48.1            43.0        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       62.0         68.0       72.0            80.4        27.6        55.8
PER SQ. 10H. AGRICULTURAL LAND    109.0       119.0      126.0           135.2       116.4        83.6
POPULATIOS AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          36.7i       31.8      28.8             26.2        34.8        40.0
15-64 YER).                         57.4,       60.6      61.7             63.4       56.0         55.3
65 YES. AND ABOVE                    5.9         7.6       9.5              9.9         5.7         3.8
POPULAT10N GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.5 /f      1.1 jf    0.4 /L           0.8         1.6         2.9
URBAN                               4.;2        1.9       2.4              2.2         3.4
CRUDE BIR1'H RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.6        24.2       22.2            19.2        27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEAT'H RATE (PER THOUSAND)      7.'i        7.4        6.8             9.0         9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.7         1.5        1.4             1.3         1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUSANDS)        *,          *.         **
USES (l'ERCENT O MARRIED  OMEN)    .38 ..                  *-            38.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              59.S       100.0       83.2           113.7       103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIE'I (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                    99.0       116.0      113.0           127.4       110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           78.0        78.0      86.0 LA          92.8        77.7        89.9
OF W61CH ANIMAL ANOD PULSE         ..        33.0  h      ..            39.3        22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGYS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       1.?          ..         ..             1.6         1.9
HEALTH
LIPE EXPEI'TANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)'  68.1         70.2       71.4            68.9        63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
=HOUSAND)                            30.D        29.4       28.4            34.5        38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIORi)
TOTAL                                ..        95.0       95.0            68.3        67.7        83.0
REBAN                                ..       100.0      94.0             74.3        83.5       100.0
RURAL                                ..        92.0       96.0            64.4        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PEB, T
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        95.0       95.0            94.0        70.3        57.8
UEBAN                                ..       100.0      94.0             94.0        90.7        99.3
RURAL                                ..        92.0       95.0            93.0        38.3
POPULATIOR PER PHYSICIAN           1390.0 1  1290.0    1160.0             686.5     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSCN      1080.0 j     610.0     430.0            339.0      649.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             220.0 /     190.0     200.0            178.0      275.4        325.8
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            70.0       129.9       250.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..          1770.0      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..            15.3        18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0          ..        3.9              *-         3.9
URBAN                               4.0          ..         ..
RURAL                               3.9          ..         ..
AVERAGE NMBHER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.5                   0.9              0.9        0.9
URBAN                               1.3         1.0       0.8              0.8        0.8
RURAL                               1.6          ..        1.0             1.0         1.0
ACCESS rO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              43.1          ..         ..            27.5        39.2
URBAN                             .90.4          ..      99.0             99.0        78.0
RURAL                              21.5          ..         ..              ..        12.5



MNNEX I
- 20 -                                                      Page 2 of 5
Page 2
TABLE 3h
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFZREltCE GROUPS (ADJUSTRD AVIRAGES
CYPRUS
- IIOST RECZNT ESTIMATE)
-SA1        SAim    NgmT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCCmH        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 a  ESTIMATE Lb       RGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP L,
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLIARY:     TOTAL                102.0        82.0 /1   71.0 /i         108.0        97.6       104.1
FEMALE              101.0         82.0 L    72.0 /1          99.5       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 48.0         52.0 L    60.0 /I          62.8        47.8        44.7
PDIALE               39.0         50.0 L    59.0 Li          63.6       42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  4.0         10.0 /1   12.0 /I          28.2        22.7        18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER- RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0        30.0 /1   27.0 1           24.9        25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                          23.0        21.0 L    20.0 L           17.3        24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        76.0        85.0         ..            88.3        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        48.0         88.0     107.0             90.4       32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATICh                        153.0       264.0     321.0            199.0      201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         78.0     133.0            132.5       97.9        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 126.0       107.0      121.0            97.1        70.9       108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0         10.0         ..             6.6         4.4
NKPLIOYMENT
TOTAL LAJOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       235.0       265.0     280.0
FMALE (PERCENT)                   33.6         34.3      34.6             32.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             40.0         36.0      34.0             32.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                27.1         27.7        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.5        41.9      42.9             39.1        33.7        40.1
MALE                                 56.2        55.8       56.8            56.7        50.8        55.8
FEMALE                               27.2        28.3       29.4            29.7        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         0.9        0.9             0.9         1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        12.1 /k      ..            31.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         39.1  k      ..            59.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         7.9 .k      ..             4.0         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        19.6 A       ..            12.9        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..      376.7           194.9       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UCR  PER CAPITA)
URJAN                                *-          ..    746.7             295.1       448.8
RURAL                                ..          ..    512.7,            309.2       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATICN BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                ..          ..       37.0            18.2        23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      43.0            24.2        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    The adjusted group averages for each indicator  re population-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data nd is not uniform.
1b    Unlesa othervwie noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d   Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e  High Incoe  (over $2500 per capita, 1976);
/f  Due to esdgration, population growth rate is lover than rate of natural increase;   a  Av. 1969-71;
/h  Av. 1964-66;  L   1962; Li  Excluding Turkish schools;   /k  1966, urban only.
May 1979



- 21 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOPS
Page 3 of 5
gajg   The adjusted stop -verages for *ech indicator are populaltign-weight6d pometric unears  excludintg the extr.e- va1ues of the Indictotr andticne
popuate  corcrpin  athgtop.  Cverge  f noIne   anng  heidlc.ter. depends a. availettility of data and 1e noto  utifore.  W.e to Ick    dald-.
grou  starag.. for C.pilij8r.1Plu.C Oil gaortes ad indicators of ecces8  to water aod encrete disposal. housing. income dietributior and p--or
staple PcPalatio-wai.bh ad  B.omeatrto mean. without the caclualon of entrag  valuea.
LA__  RE__h____        q.k.                                                              Poo-la... per hospital be  - total  o rban. and rur.l - PoPulutlo-  (tomL.1
Tota  - Ttal  utfoe aeot npriinaLand area and inland -tarst.                 -urban.  1a ran) divie  byter r..sPeCtive naber of htepitoi bod.
A&elicutural - Most retent estleate of agricultural area seed teeporarily                 available in public end Privat. general and specteli-d h.ep-1u u-d   -
or P-rwase-tlY for t.oP.. Past... -.  -eart and kitchen ga-dane or to                   hbailitatioo  ---or.   foePftel.  -r  ast.blihsbeente permanetly staffed bc
lie. fslio.                                                                             at laaat one phy.1cian.  gt.tbli.lnose.t  pr-vdiog priocip.11  cuetudio1
care are aot included.  Ru-1 hospitals.  howeve,  oL-ud. h.alth end sadi-
GNP PER CAITA (US$) - (NP per o.pit* eatinates at corret earkat prices.                    Ia  centers not premanently staffed by a phy.aice  (bat by e -odical a.-
calo_lard by sane ..n.arion sathed cs World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  isitant. soure. widvif., etc.) ebich offer in-PatienL ecciOmed.tlor ood
1960. 1970. and 1977 data,                                                              provide a 1hattd range, of medical farilitie...
Adajeaona ea  hospital bed - Total  -ambr of adleosto or diachargee
SfGCOSPTION PER CAPITA - hAnal  nooamptioa, of comarcial energy                    fo  baitala divided by the eumber of bade.
(lcal  nd    itnc., PAtrolem. eatual ges anod bydro-. neoleratnd g...
therna  electricity) Jn kilogrnam  of teal equivalent per capita.                  ICtsIin
AErate aine of household (persons per househbold) - total. uris,.. and rot]-3
POPULfATIONI AND VITAL MTLTISTICS                                                          A bouseehold eonsiats of a group of individuale who asate living quartera
Total opaio.aid- .'er (11`11ione) - La of July 1. if not available.                       en  their min  -eal..  A boarder or lodger nay or may not be loclu.d.d It
avrgeo  nved-yea  satit; 1960  170, ad177 data,                                the ho...ahold forsaisia  purposes.  Statistic.l definiticos of h..ar-
Urban noorol lion CPsr.,nt of total) -1Ratio o'f orbe&n to total popola-                  bold vary.
tin , different deflaition,a of urban ara ny affsect comparability                   Averaa* smber of pSreone ear ron, - total. orba. end total -  o-ragen.-
Of dat  sesog cotantr:L.e.                                                             bar of persons peor roo  in all,iurban, and.rural .ocpied cnetoa
Pouaiodensity                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwelligs eclude non-prenane..t s-truotot    sod
P- j,:    Mid-year population per equare kilomter (1D0 bectares)                 unoocupiad parcs..
of totalara                                                                          Access to electricity (Parrcett of dwel ings) - total. urban, and tota   -
Per eq. he. asticultorn land - tamputad as shove for agricultural land                  Convetional dvellina with electrtiity in I'inig quarter. .e p.-.n01.g,
only,                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings r-apeccively.
Population  ag  structui: _(pecent. - Children (0-14 years) , working-ago
1-6yers)*adr,titad (65 yearsed  va-r) as percentages of eld-                 EDUCATIONI
year population.                                                                    AdJusted enrolment ratio.
Population growthrteprct)-oa, and urban - Cosmpound annual                             Primary school - total, and fenale - Total and fsnale a-r1le-t of 011 op-
growth rata oftota Ln  urban ei-year populatione for 1950-60.                           st the primary lev1 ae percentages of respatti-el, prinary sho-g
1960-70. an  1l970t-75.                                                                populations; norn11y includes children aged h-1l yerbut adjusted for
Crude birth rate fpet thousandW) - kAsnual live bietha Pat- thousand of                   different lengths of primary education; for cou..trie  wth unoro  edoI
mid-yea  populatianl te-year aritbmetic av-rag.e endieg in 1960 and                     cation  anrolleet ny ....sed 100 percet since  -oe  pupil. arc belo- or
-970 an4 fl v-y.aT a-enage .ndine in 1975 for nst ra....  et .tnate.-Ab.-  the offici.l  ehool age.
Crude death rate (star thouaeo4l - Annual deaths per thousand of eld-                   S*eondary school - 1tote. and fenele- Ctoputd an aboe  erocod.ry ad...-
yearfpopulation; tnpa   ritbnatic  -aerages ending in, 1960 and 1970                    tion requie  at Ieae  fourryaar  ofapproved priaryiarc  i    pro-
an iv-year average ending in 1975 for meet recent .atinat..                          vid.a general vocational, or te...hhr training ietot-ticne, fot pupll.
Gro..rse-d.cti.. rt!t  - Av,r:a, nob,r of daughters a  na   ill bea                       usually of 12 to 17 years of age; c-respocdeo.- u  o    re ge...rtlly
inhe  nrml cproduotive pidif she  panprlences preset age-                          ascludad.
specific fartilit  rate.;usually fiv-yeer averages ending In 1960.                   VctIll n ollent (parcent of gerendary) - V ...tlo...l ietaitutlo-  ic-
P1970. sod 19175.                                                                         ldad   techeical. industrial, or other prostae chich operat  i.depend-lti
faily planning-ecPtr. nnua  (thousands   - Annua  nembr oforandep.rteeta of secondary inatitution.
accptors of birth-contro  deIc.ndr  upices of national family                       Pupil-t.achetrato-pie, and aecondary -Total  tcd.ota .-ollrd i0
planing pr_g-a                                                                          primary and  scondat  levels 1  divided by nuebera of teac.hers Ir the.or
family elaocna" -ues nrcn    f  arriad woonac) - P,aroantage o                            spendinglels
married cnoof child-hearing ae(54    er)woo.brh-onrl                                Ault literay race (percent) - Literate adulte (able to-road aod write) 
d-vioss to all  -riad vonn Sn san  age grop,                                            a percentag  of total adult populatio  agd 11 yeran  over
FOOD AN,D NUTRITIONCOSMTN
Indn of food roctIon pt capilta (197D-100) - Ind.a uuaber of per                      Pssnstcr   per thcueand population) - Pa ..Senge  car  -opri.e not.o,cr
caiaana  prdcic   fal   od  odtia                                               eting la tan sight prersns;  loidee  -b.aho   ce..  h..rne. coo cilit-r
Per capit supply of caois(Percent of  :eocibraenta) *. onuted from                      vehicles.
energy euvaetof net food supplier avilbl  in cuntry prcapIta                         Waio receivers (par thoue..nd p.puiati.t) - All type. of ro-iv-rn for rodic
per day.  Avoilable eupplien comprise dometic productio.  iprts lees                 broadcas.ts to general public pro thousan.d of populuotot; .ncludra  li
e-ports,enchnainao.Mtupia                          cud  eatil fed, seeds,            recivers.in coun,trIes end in yerswenreitrtinoftdlo000wn 
quanitie   ad infoo  processin.  and .ploses.-in dtriuon Reeffrct; dai  fc ren  Ye.e  mo   o  be c                                 tsptro i aeoenu
qui-enats veto estimated by FAO ba..ed on physiological n..ed, for nr                abolished lit..n.ing.
'l activity and health considering environmental tospe.rrture. body                 TV receivers (por thousand population) -TV re..lo-ca for br-doun   to gSenecA
onigta.  ge  nd a   ditributions of population, and allowing 10 per-              pulcertosn pplti;exldsniesd  Oeevrohoom-
cet fo            h,esea  hoahold loya.                                               tri.a and in Yeas  han ragisor-rfo  of TV  oe  a  in effect.
par c.pit. supply of prti    1-.prdy  - Protein clontest of Per                       He-Paper ciclatlion (net thousend population) - Showe the  --crgr  r   Xi-l
capita net suPply of food per d.y.  N.t epp Y of fend is defined astion. of  daily.. genal interest  etpp",defined                                     p a.p.. dica  pul.-
abv.tquimensfo l  countries established by 13SDA provide for                      cation devted prtnariiy to recoding Reea1   n    It it c-.idered  -c
anOanallewance of 60 grac  of total protein per dey sand 20 grcene                he "daily" if it opp.... at leas.t four tine   kweb
of oanial and  suec protein. of which 10 grace should bee animal protein.           Cisna annual attendance par capita par Y-a   - Based on the numrt cf tickurr
These stan:dads are lovr than thse nof 75 gr-n  of total prot.in and                    sold dating the year. including adaissioon to driv-in  ome.-. and sobulo
23 grac  of animal Protein as an average for the -.Ild, propose.d by                    units,
Per         Prp... inosl supply from Sina  and Pulse - Protel,, supply of food       CQLOTMEN
derived fro  aniLmalsand pulse  in graeprdy                                         Total labor force (thousands) - E-onjonic1y active poe .icoluding  -rnd
Child (.gen 1-4) mortalt  ae(a  huand) - Annul deaths Par thru.-                          force  and unopioyed but antiuding houewives, students, etc.  lefivi-
and in age Stoup 1-i years. to children. in this age group,                             tions in  osiu       otir se  not OOParable.
LIf onoooccarbirth lyca-;) - Average ntber of yas-  of lifr                         as p.rc.rtege of total l.bo-  force
renmn    t birch; uulYfiveyear avrages ending in 1960. 1970,                        Industry (percent)_-Labor force in mining.  --ntruotion.manufac-tuing std
and 1975.             sprtosnle.t.o                           atsudr"ctricity ..wate  and gao ae pe-t.etge of total lahor force.
Inetarcolcty ca.ts 1pr.oan)-Ana   eah   fifnsudr                                 Prtilipat.n race (nren)-toa,  a    and feae-Tctl, male, anod
conpes  ofagoperthoo..a.d live birht..                                             '-Ie labor fHrea   porcncage  of tho ir  -sp.cti- popula-loo
Acces ccsafeeate  (prcen  of opultIo) -  otal uron. nd rorml -           These are TLC's adjusted p.rticipatiot r tee.  r fl-ctiop So--e
Amber.. ft people (.to'tal, rban,  pad ralwith   ..a.oosbl.  .c.es. to                   structure  of the popol.tion, and Inc9 tint trend.
5s  wae  sply(ncue tI'lladsurf'c  waters o ntr.ated but                              Economic depndecyrai   - Ratio of Ppoplatioc undro 15 end h5 -od or 
"roeiatd wte  suhastht from  Prtct.d borehole., springs,                             th. labor forc  in age groc  of 11-b4 yeoc...
und sanitary wells) as percentages of their respectiveppltos
Jo an urban ureaa  uli   eutine  stadp.st loc..ted not mote.                      IneCdi DISTRIBL'TI0N
than b .II eaters .en tat  nua. sIy be cnsid rsd        bsg wihi   ea                Penoos   f e         tae income (bcoh in cash and hiod) rece;ived ho riclue-
eonole acessof tat huae.On rnal  reasreacnabl  accss wuld         ercet. rIches  20 parce...t  poorest 20 pocet, codporet 4C ocr--n
imply that the housewife or mabets of the hou...hold do not hav   oof house holds.                                                    P
s.pen  sdierprt e         cpato   he day in fetching the fanilys.
L.oo   neds.                                                                     POVERITY TARGET GOUPPS
Accs to. ancrta di.nI prcn o   oulatIon) - total, urban, and                           tEtatedabout    vrt    oon. levl-             i   e   aia     ro   o   ua
rura  -  uehr ofp.01.  icte, uban  endrurl)  erve  byexceteAbsolute poverty intoma leve  is thatiSnocee                      ltvlbelo- which a .ninir
dispcsal as Prcetages of their ...epscti- populetclona.  crt                            nutritionaly edaquete diet Plus. .... isi  no-foreurarti0C
dIsposalInwy include the collectionaddipsl  with or vi thout                            affordable.
tramn,o  bacecesan   at-ae  by wate-born  aYsuom                            tEtleatad relative n(UtSicmelve                  $ Pat capit.l - urb..andso lt
othci  one of Pit prfvisatand siilar Intalations.                                    Relatlv- povety in-m  leve  in that icowe lrve.i l.s. tiha  ocr-third
~ulaionperphyicin -population diviIded by amber of praticing                       Per capita Personal incm   of the  -ontry.
Pyaimaqualified from. wa dical  sohool at uslv1-elty le-sl.Estimated populato                                 Ia ovryicm   lee  pceoC-camndrCo -1
12nttot  E_ranr_finaefo. g- Population divided by ... bar of                          Precof populti-n (urban and rcl   h0aerte    stic   or   u
occticog al   en     .ai   rduate  cee  pratical eu-s, end                           'rl-v orvihvoi   t acer..   th
ass istnt ohuhtene,-.r
tuooc    o  nd.c...I.cC  lc,lc



- 22 -
ANNEX I
CYPRUS DJONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DfAT-  /2                           Page 4 of 5
Actual                 L5t.                F rojced                  -Orowth Gies                            1977
III5-    191,-    191/9-    1991-  Sha-.
1973 f/ 1973      1977   , 971 _ 979           1980     1981      1985  .  1977       1978      1981      1985    of GDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(m million at 1975 pricas)
CDP (m.p.)                         1069.7   687.8    958.8    1023. 1   1083.5   1147.5   1215.3   1517.2    18.1            6.7       5.9       5.7   100.0
Gain# from  recm  and Trade           20.8       .0     _4.4        3.3      7.5      11.5       9.4      6.9            -         -         -             -
GrosS Doumestic lncos               1090.5   687.8    954.5    1026.4   1091.1   1159.0   1224.7   1524.2    17.9            7.5       6.1       3.6    99.6
Exports (a + nfg)   Volum            566.2   275.3    480.8      477.7    525.0    581.3    653.9    928.6    32.2          -0.6      11.0       9.2    50.1
Exports (a + nf.) - TT adl.          587.0   275.3    476.5      481.0    532.6    592.8    663.3    935.5    31.6           1.0      11.3       8.9    49.7
Imports (g + nfs)                  -736.6  .395.2   .647.8    -707.3   -751.7   .795.7   -844.6  -1091.3    28.0             9.2       6.1       6.6     67.6
Resource gap - TT  dj.               149.6   119.9    171.3      226.3    219.2    202.8    181.3    155.9          _         -         - _              17.8
ConoumPtpDn                         954.6   685.7    895.4    1021.6   1079.1   1126.1   1165.5   1399.9    14.3            14.1       4.5       4.6     93.4
InvcstMCnL                          285.5   122.0    230.4       231.1    231.1    235.8    240.6    280.0    37.4           0.3       1.4       3.9     24.0
Domestic S-Vi.gg                     135.8      2.1     59.1       4.7      11.9      33.0      59.3    124.1       -         -         -         .       6.2
National Savings                     167.3    84.8    143.1        96.1      96.5    109.7    127.8    169.5         -        -                   -      14.9
GDP (at current US$)                 959.1   687.8    989.2    1211.6   1398.6   1584.8   1779.0   2696.6            -         -        .
D.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                                  Share
B.  SECTOR OtJTPUT                                       Share of OP (fc) at 1975 prices (2)                          Sector Growth Rates                   of GDP
Agriculturc                           13.3    16.8       14.9      14.2      13.7      13.2     12.8      11.6      8.3       1.0       2.3       3.0    14.9
Inds.try_                             29.0    24.6      27.7       28.8      29.8      30.?     31.6      34.4    21.8       11.0       9.2       7.9    27.7
Services                              57.6    58.6      57.4       57.0      56.5      56.1     55.6      54 0    13.4        5.7       5.0       4.9    57.4
C. PRICES (1975-100)
Export Price Index |4      -        7MA.8    100.00   108.46    113.43    121.16   129.14   136.58   173.D4
Import Price lnde L               68.30   100.00   109.45    112.55    119.45   126.63   134.65   171.77             -        -
Term. of Trade Salence /4         103.67    100.00    99.09    100.78    101.44   101.98   101.44   10J.74
GDP (o.p.) Deflator (USI3           75.23    100.00   109.17    118.24    129.08   138.10   146.28   177.74                    -         -                  -
Average Exchange Rate (C. . $)    0.35        0.37      0.41       0.38
0.  SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                  Period Average
Incremental CapitallOutput Ratlo    *          *         *          *        *         *         *        *         2.4       3.6       3.6       3.7      -
Import Elasticity                    *          *        *                                                           1.55     1.37      1.04      1.16      -
Aver.-8  National Saving, Rate       *          *        *                                                          13. 6     9.4       9.7      [1.0       -
Pargfi-l NAtional Ssvings Rate                  *        *          *        *         '          *                 21.5        -      16.5      1 3.8 
Imports/GDP                          .          *        .          -        *                    *                 61.5     69.1      69.4      71.2      -
Investment/GDP                       *          *                                                         *        20.7      24.1      20.5      18.9       -
Resource Gap/GDP                     .          .         .         .        .         .          .        .        15.0     23.4       17.5     IL 7       -
S.  lABOR FORCE                           l973-8975          1977                        F.  PU8LIC FINANCE                    1973 1/      1975     1977
Labor Force ( 000)                  279.7    207.7    204.5                              (-a Y of GOP at current o. p.)
Unemploysent (000)                    3-3     33.5       6.2
(7.)                                  (1.2)   (16.1)    (3.0)                            Current revenue                  16.2          19.2     20.6
Employment ('000)                    276.4    174.2    198.3                             Current .xpendit.r-               15.6         28.9      25.4
(% share))                                                                             Gvornme-t Savings                 0.6         -9.7      -4.8
Airlcult.re                        (34.0)   (26.0)   (23.1)                            oooutoprdre434.                                          34
IndustryA                          (26.1)   (25.6)   (25.6)                            D,e mt  pen d -?'?               43.7        -[4.3      38.2
S-rvte.,                           (39.9)   (48.4)   (50. 7)
/I  Data up to July 19)4 refer to the who,. of Cypru.as  dct. thereafter refer to south Cyprus only and are therefore
lot directly comparable with those for earlier years.
'2  Sl-me ma not odd uo due to rounding errr.
/1  Include  -anufacturing, construction, utilities and einina.
/4 Merchandise trade.
EMENA CPIIA
May 15, 1979



- 23 -
L01E1 I
Page 5 of 5
CYPRUS:   Balance of Payment and External AssiStance-
l973   Actual                Est.                      Projected                        Gr ow.th Rates
1973   i9 Ts         1976       1977       IT7Y!       1979       1980       1991       1985      1970-73   1975-77   1
Sumnary of Balance of Payment.
1.   Exports (including NFS)                             400.9      275.3      430.1      521.5      541.9       636.1      750.7      893.1    1606.8                   37.6
2.   Imports (IncludLng NFS)                              503.1     395.2      512.4      709.0       796.8      897.9    1007.6    1137.3   1U74.7                      33.9       1
3.   Resource Balance                                   -102.2    -119.9       -82.3    -187.5       -255.0     -261.8    -256.9    -244.1    -267.9                     25.1
4.   Net-factor Service Income                              6.6       L0.6      11.2       19.1        28.9        32.4       33.4      36.0       45.2                  34.2
4.1  Net lnterast Psyente                                   5.1        -.2      -5.9      -11.5        -9.9       -16.3     -22.7      -28.4      -53.0                   -         21.
of which on pub M6LT  a.ne                           -3.0       .4.9       -5.3       -8.6      -11.4       -16.1      -21.0      -25.2      -52.2                  32.4      25.
4.2  Direct Ineatment Income                                .0        .0         .0         .0        -1.4        -1.6      -1.8       -2.1       -3.7                   -          -
4.3  Workere Remittance (Net)                               1.5       10.8      17.1       30.6        40.3        50.3       57.9      66.5      101.8                  68.3       16.2
5.   Current Transfers (Net)                               14.9       72.1      60.7       72.8        78.0        73.0      68.0       60.0       35.0                   0-5      -0.4
6.   B lance on Current Atcount                          -80.7      -37.2      -10.4      -95.6      -148.0     -156.3    -155.5    -148.1    -187.7                     60.3        P.e
7.   Priv-te Direct Inesleseot                            26.5       11.0       37.8       23.9       27.5        31.6       36.3       41.8       73.1                 47.4       L-.
Public and MUlT Wanr:
8.   Disburements                                          22.0       9.8       27.3       65.5        68.2        84.7      90.6      118.8      222.7                 258.5       lo.5
9.   A-ortiation                                           -5.3      -5.1       -9.3       -7.0       -12.3      -22.4      -41.5      -59.2    -137.7                   17.2      45.1
10.  Net Disbursements                                     16.6       4.7       17.9       58.5        55.9       62.3       49.1       59.6       85.0                 352.8       4.8
11.  Use of IMF Resources                                    .0       2.1       40.4         .0          .0          .0        .0         .0         .0                   -         -
12.  Short-term  Capital Transactions                     20.9       -4.3      -12.7        5.6         7.5        8.0        8.5        9.0       15.7                   -        13.8
13.  Capital Tronser tions NEI                              3.8     -27.5       44.1       47.6        30.0       34.5       39.7       45.6       66.8                   -         4.3
14. Chsn8e in Reserves (- - increase)                      12.8      51.2    -117.1       -40.0        27.2       20.0       21.9       -7.9      -52.9                   _         3.6
15. Net Foreign Eachange
Reserves (end of period)                            306.8      215.2      291.9      332.2      305.0       285.0      263.1      271.0     4(e.7                  24.2
16.  Exchange Rate ($/CL)                                  2.86       2.72       2.44       2.45        2.61       -          _                     i           Arni  -
Grant and Loan Coitaents                                                                                               2/                           1          1975       1976      1977
Debt 4 Debt Service-
1.   Total Public M6LT Loans                               16.8        7.0      52.0       70.0   Total Debt Outstanding (DOD
1.1  IBRD                                                   5.4        .0       16.0       10.0   end of period)                                    57.3       76.3       94.4     162.3
1.2  Other M.ltilateral                                      .0       5.6       24.0        5.2   Public Debt Serice                                 8.3       10.1      14.6       15.6
1.3  Government                                             .0         .0       10.4        8.2     of which Interest                               (3.0)      (4.9)     (5-3)
1.4  Suppliers                                              3.4       1.4         .0       16.9   Debt Service Ratio                                 2.1        3.7        3.4
1.5  FiPancisl Institutio-o                                 2.9        .0        1.4       30.0
tnt. on Total DOD/Totl1 WD                        5.3        6.5        5.6       5.3
Mermorandum  Ite-e                                                                                 Total Debt Services/Total DOD                    14.5       13.2       15.4        9.6
1.   Crunt El.ment of Total                                                                        TRRD Dtsh./Gcx-s Total DIsh.                     44.7       20.4       11.0        5.0
CorDitDant                                           15.8        7.8       17.0        8.8   IBRD DODITotal DOD                                52.9       51.0       42.1      24.9
2.   Average Interest (percent:                             6.7       8.1        7.1        7.8   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt
3.   Anerage Maturity (years)                             14.4        6.6       12.5        9.0   SerIce                                            34.5       47.0       34.4       34.8
1/ Data up to July 1974 refer to the whole of Cyprus; data theroofter refer to southern Cyprus only and are therafore not
directly conpuroble with those for earlier years.                                                                                                                   KEEMA CYIIA
2J  YT-ely inforeatlon on pri-ete debt iJ not availabl.  However, tat-l private nedium and 100g-term debt outstanding is very                                           N.y 15, 1979
s-all as * rs .t of thr 1174 events.  Total short-term debt outst-nding .so  $58 million ot the end of 1976.



- 24 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1979)
US$ Millions
Amount
Loan
Number    Year        Borrower             Purpose         (less cancellations)    Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                                           46.0
729     1971    Sewage Board         Sewerage
of Nicosia          System                        2.7                 0.3
730     1971    Sewage Board         Sewerage and
of Famagusta        Drainage System               1.9                 0.5
904     1973    Republic of         Highway I
Cyprus                                           5.4                  3.7
960     1974    Republic of         Paphos
Cyprus              Irrigation                  14.0                  9.8
1278     1976    Cyprus Develop-    DFC
ment Bank                                         6.0                 0.7
1344     1976    Republic of          Highway II
Cyprus                                          10.0                 10.0
1483     1977    Republic of          Rural
Cyprus              Development                 10.0                  9.9
1540     1978    Cyprus Ports         Ports II
Authority                                        8.5                  8.4
1658     1979   Republic of          Water Resources
Cyprus             Development                   11.0                11.0
Total                                                   115.5
of which has been repaid                              17.1
Total now outstanding                                    98.4
Amount sold                        2.3
of which has been repaid       2.3
Total now held by Bank                                   98.4
Total undisbursed                                                            54-3



- 25 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount of US$
Year              Obligor              Type of Business       Loan       Equity      Tota..
1972      Cyprus Cement Company          cement                2.3        0.6          2.9
1977      Cyprus Pipes Industry          construction
material              0.5        0.2         0.7
Total gross commitments                              2.8       0.8          3.6
Less cancellations, sales
terminations and repayments                          1.1       0.1          1.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                    1.7       0.7          2.4
Total Undisbursed                                     -        0.1          0.1
_          =            =



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 729 - Nicosia Sewerage Project: US$2.7 million loan of April 5,
1971. Effective Date: July 16, 1971. Closing Date: (original) March 31,
1975; (current) September 30, 1979.
The system was largely completed in July 1974 when construction was
interrupted. After prolonged negotiations, a mutually acceptable solution
was reached between the Turkish Cypriots and the Nicosia Sewage Board, and
arrangements were formally agreed upon in September 1978 to complete the
final stages of the project. Construction is now expected to begin again in
mid 1979, with completion planned in 1980.
Loan No. 730 - Famagusta Sewerage Project: US$1.9 million loan of April 5,
1971.  Effective Date:  July 16, 1971.  Closing Date:  (original) March 31,
1975; (current) March 31, 1980.
The project was about 90 percent complete in July 1974, when con-
struction was interrupted. The project site lies entirely in Famagusta, which
is under the control of the Turkish Cypriot administration. Completion of
this project therefore depends on a political settlement. The closing date
has been extended to March 31, 1980, pending further progress towards such a
settlement.
Loan No. 904 - First Highway Project: US$5.4 million loan of June 12, 1973.
Effective Date: September 12, 1973. Closing Date: (original) December 31,
1976; (current) December 31, 1979.
The construction element of this Loan, a new four-lane divided
Nicosia-Morphou highway, was interrupted by the events of 1974 shortly after
its start in May 1974. The Bank has agreed to the Government's request to
a change of loan description that allows the use of up to US$3.6 million to
make up the foreign exchange shortfall for the construction of a new Nicosia-
Limassol highway under the Second Highway Project, Loan 1344-CY. Amendments
to the Loan Agreement were concluded in 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan No. 960 - Paphos Irrigation Project:  US$14.0 million loan of January 30,
1974.  Effective Date:  October 10, 1975.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Engineering of project works is nearing completion. Work on the
main canal has been completed and construction of the Asprokremos Dam has been
started. Land consolidation is progressing satisfactorily and training of
farmers at the "Farmers Training Center" is continuing with high farmers in-
terest and participation. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1278 - Second Cyprus Development Bank Project: US$6.0 million loan
of June 3, 1976. Effective Date: October 1, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
I'he loan was fully committed by the end of 1978. Disbursements are
expected to be completed well ahead of the Closing Date. The management and
expanding staff of CDB are capable and have developed an excellent project
appraisal and supervision capability.
Loan No. 1344 - Second Highway Project: US$10.0 million loan of December 31,
1976. Effective Date: October 11, 1977. Closing Date: April 30, 1982.
T'he main construction contract was awarded in January 1979. Consul-
tants to assist in supervising construction have been appointed.
Loan No. 1483 - Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million loan of August 18, 1977. Effective Date: November 7, 1977. Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
f'reparation of designs and tenders for project components is pro-
gressing st:eadily. Preliminary designs for a portion of the village roads
component have been completed and approved by the Bank.  Tenders for the rural
health component are now being evaluated. Contracts for two of the small
irrigation water storage ponds have been awarded. The study on financing of
agriculture investments has been completed and is under review by Government.
Loan No. 1540 - Second Ports Project; $8.5 million loan of April 12, 1978.
Effective Date: August 11, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The contract for ithe main civil works component involving construc-
tion of quays at Limassol has been awarded and construction work is being
initiated.
Loan No. 1558 - Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project for Water Resources Development:
US$11.0 miLlion loan of February 12, 1979. Effective Date: July 16, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Loan not yet declared effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
CYPRUS
THIRD CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First Bank Mission to Identify Project:         September 26-28, 1978
(b)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                January 15, 1979
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:                    May 23, 1979
(d)  Expected Date of Loan Effectiveness:           October 1, 1979
Section II: Special Implementation Action by Bank
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.         The raising by CDB of funds in the commercial market at least
matching the amount of the Bank loan, or proof satisfactory to the Bank that
arrangements to secure such a loan have been completed, is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 52).
B.         Agreements were reached during negotiations that:
(a) CDB's debt-equity ratio will be increased from 5:1 to 7.5:1
(para. 54);
(b) The Guarantor will increase CDB's equity capital by CL 1.0
million by no later than December 31, 1980 (para. 54);
(c) The Guarantor will ensure that CDB is able to obtain its
local currency resource requirements for 1979 of at least
CL 1,300,000. These will be met by the issue of debenture
notes with Government and Central Bank repayment and market-
ability guarantees respectively (para. 52); and
(d) The proposed Bank contribution of $1.0 million to the SSI
program will be matched by contributions from the Guarantor
and the SSI component will be carried out in accordance
with agreed parameters, including a maximum project cost
of CL 30,000 and an employment range of 4-39 (para. 38).



Q cD  \  ~~~ s t .      - U~L R K E Y                 |1  
C,R ECE~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                     U
CYPRUS                 SYRIA
,   - _            il)      o<R0Q                                               M    b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IV  D  T     L    PI    R    A     N     fF    A     N  S EI    A                                                         5-                               -
-_,                  EE~~~~~~~LRAEL  JIS  wN,                                                                                                                                                                                      p                       _+a 
LIBYA                                         I-       RSA      SA
/          AR R                  L        ,Y       _
_' S' 5',' R
US, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~U,,,~~~~~CPU
6A.S WW W[S b~ = WM W ty WE                                                                                                                                          _, _  , _,                                      /,
2.ASSOt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DSVREO  AERA
wwe4aso Ws~                                                                                             ),  AJOPIDEER=                                                                                                       / 
T F R P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 AAOR ON
s4n7W wwbR#sW   W                                              _  _  NTFENIA                      ,                                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4 E 2        A        555
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS                                                                                            Yr                                                                  S r  SS
Mopo                                                        <\                                                                                   a<gJt  J
Bay    Mole2$L   \   /   o   -,eatt  \  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al



