CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1744 CY
Loan Agreement
(Third Cyprus Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Dated July 5, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1744 CY
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a company established and operating under the laws
of Cyprus.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower under Part A of the Project, out of the
proceeds of the Loan, to an Investment Enterprise for an Invest-
ment Project; and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.03 (c) of this Agreement.
(b) "investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower under Part A of the
Project, out of the proceeds of the Loan, in an Investment Enter-
prise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Small Scale Industry" means an enterprise in Cyprus to
be defined in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(f) "SSI Scheme" means the scheme of assistance to Small
Scale Industries in Cyprus undertaken by the Borrower with
resources to be obtained from the Bank under Part B of the
Project and from the Guarantor, as provided in Section 2.02 (iii)
of the Guarantee Agreement.
(g) "SSI loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made to
a Small Scale Industry by the Borrower utilizing the proceeds of
the Loan under the SSI Scheme.
(h) "SSI Project" means a specific project to be carried
out by a Small Scale Industry utilizing the proceeds of the Loan
under the SSI Scheme.
(i) "Cyprus Pound" and "Ce" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(j) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(k) "Memorandum and Articles" means the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Borrower dated May 30, 1963, as
amended from time to time.
(1) "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Policies
and Procedures approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower
on February 26, 1976, as amended from time to time.
(m) "Prior Loan Agreement" means either the Loan Agreement
dated June 19, 1972 (Loan No. 830 CY), or the Loan Agreement dated
June 3, 1976 (Loan No. 1278 CY), between the Bank and the Borrower
and "Prior Loan" means either loan provided for therein.
(n) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan
Account:
(a) for Part A of the Project - up to the equivalent of
four million dollars ($4,000,000) for amounts expended (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, required to meet expenditures to be made) by
the Borrower under a sub-loan or investment to finance the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Investment
Project, in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; and
(b) for Part B of the Project - up to the equivalent of one
million dollars ($1,000,000) to finance the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for SSI Projects under the SSI
Scheme.
Section 2.03. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made in respect
of a sub-loan or investment to an Investment Enterprise unless:
(i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved
by the Bank; or
(ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for
which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account.
(b)   Withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made in
respect of:
(i) the equivalent of one hundred per cent (100%)
of expenditures for CIF cost of equipment (except
equipment described in sub-paragraph (ii) of
this paragraph (b)) produced outsi.de Cyprus;
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of expen-
ditures for equipment produced outside Cyprus


﻿-4-
which are purchased from suppliers in Cyprus and
invoiced and paid for in Cyprus Pounds; and
(iii) the equivalent of fifty-five per cent (55%),
or such other percentage as may be agreed upon
between the Bank and the Borrower, of expenditures
for civil works.
(c) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $350,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of either Prior
Loan for such Investment Project, the foregoing amounts being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval, or in respect of an investment, if such
expenditures shall have been made:
(i) before the date of this Agreement; or
(ii) more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such
sub-loan or investment the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.04
(b) hereof.
(e) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by a Small Scale Industry in respect of a SSI loan subject to
the Bank's authorization, if such expenditures shall have been
made more than ninety days prior to (i) the date of this Agreement
or (ii) the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such SSI loan the request and information required by Section
2.04 (c) hereof.
Section 2.04. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,


﻿-5-
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project
(including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the prc-eeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms
and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-
loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of Part B of the
Project, shall be accompanied by a statement specifying: (i) name
of investor and sub-sector; (ii) type of project and total amount;
(iii) summary list of purchases; (iv) amount and terms and condi-
tions of the SSI loan; and (v) amount disbursed over the period
covered and the total amount disbursed to date.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on or before
December 31, 1981.
Section 2.05. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement, withdrawals may be made under Part B of the
Project for an amount equivalent to fifty per cent (50%) of the
amount disbursed by the Borrower for SSI loans over the period
covered by the statement referred to in Section 2.04 (c) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.06. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.09. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.10. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and SSI
loans and the schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of
investments, which have been approved or authorized for with-
drawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to
Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made by
the Borrower under Section 2.11 of this Agreement; provided that
repayments due hereunder shall be made on January 1 and July 1 in
each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(h) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years and ten years, respectively,
from the date of approval by the Bank of such sub-loan or invest-
ment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by
the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.11. With respect to Part A of the Project and
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the
Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment


﻿-7-
or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the    Borrower
shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.10 (a) of this Agreement, the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or
investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the
Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata, to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such invest-
ment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in Cyprus as will contribute to the economic and social develop-
ment of the country. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   The financing of specific development projects (except
exclusively mining projects) in the manufacturing, tourism
or services sectors through loans to and investment in
productive enterprises in Cyprus.
Part B:   The financing of the scheme of financial assistance
to Small Scale Industries in Cyprus.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate finan-
cial standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles and
the Statement of Policy.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Part A of the Project:
(a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it
shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of
the Borrower to: (i) require the InvestInent Enterprise to carry
out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them, and (2) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice, and (2) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect


﻿-9-
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part B of the Project:
(a) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each SSI Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the inter-
ests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with the Borrower's
obligations hereunder; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part
B of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take full responsibility for the
promotion, financing, disbursement and collection of SSI loans,
in accordance with the following modits operandi:
(i) the Borrower shall receive applications for SSI
loans either directly or through the team of
professionals assigned by the Guarantor to the
SSI Scheme pursuant to Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment;
(ii) the Borrower shall appraise SSI Projects under
a simplified procedure acceptable to the Bank
and the Borrower;
(iii) SSI loans shall be approved by a committee composed
of two Directors of the Borrower (including the
Chairman of the Board) and the General Manager
(or an officer of the Borrower acting on his
behalf); and
(iv) disbursement of SSI loans shall normally be made
by the Borrower directly to the approved sup-
plier(s) of goods specified in the SSI loan agree-
ment after certification to the satisfaction of the
Borrower that the goods so purchased are in accor-
dance with such agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the sub-loans,
investments, the Small Scale Industries, the SSI Projects and
the SSI loans.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
SecLl.oi 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
(a) before committing itself to finance any project
requiring the Borrower's financing of $350,000 equivalent or more,
calculate the financial and economic rates of return on such
project by a method acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) charge interest at an annual rate of at least nine per
cent (9%) on all its new loans.
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower undertakes
to secure additional funds for part of its foreign exchange
commitments for the period 1979-1981 in an aggregate amount of at
least five million dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited


﻿- 11 -
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of suzh scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(b) For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower,
shall: (i) maintain separate records on its SSI operations in
such form and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(ii) have such records for each fiscal year audited; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank at its request such records so audited.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any assets of the Borrower or
any subsidiary as security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
assets of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property,
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions   nd securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section 4.06 of


﻿- 12 -
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any of its outstanding
debt which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect
the Borrower's ability to m,..et its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
7.5 times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this paragraph and
Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement:
(i) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under
a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan
Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount
of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan or agreement, and (2) under a guaran-
tee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstand-
ing;
(iii) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Cyprus Pound
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower
for the purposes of servicing such debt;
(iv) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt
of the Borrower and subsidiaries, excluding any
debt owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by


﻿- 13 -
any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(v) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the
unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free
reserves of the Borrower and subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent
equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other
subsidiary.
(b) The provisions of the foregoing paragraph supersede
any prior agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on the
same subject.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take sucl steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary, including availing itself of
the exchange risk guarantee given by the Guarantor under the
Agreement dated February 2, 1979 between the Guarantor and the
Borrower, to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from
changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including
Cyprus Pounds) used in its lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidi-
aries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,


﻿-4 -
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(b) A change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles or in the Statereni of Policy without the Bank's consent
which will materially and adversely affect the financial condition
or operations of the Borrower.
(c) A resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower.
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the loan made to the Borrower for the financing
of part of the Borrower's foreign exchange commit-
ments for the period 1979-1981 as referred to
in Section 3.08 of this Agreement shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Bank that (A) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for such part of the Borrower's foreign ex-
change commitments as is referred to in sub-
paragraph (i) of this paragraph for the period
1979-1981 are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(e) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 15 -
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b),
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur.
(b) Any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower
and the Guarantor.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower shall have obtained additional funds, as
required under Section 3.08 hereof, and that the agreement pro-
viding therefor shall have been duly authorized or ratified on
behalf of all the parties thereto by all necessary action, corpo-
rate or otherwise.
Section 6.02. The date of October 9, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable aadress:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 16 -
For the Borrower:
The Cyprus Development Bank Limited
23 Crete Street
Nicosia, Cyprus
Cable address:                      Telex:
DEVBANK                           2797 DEVBANK
Nicosia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
By Is/ Andreas Jacovides
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE I
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
January 1, 1983                                   24,000
July 1, 1983                                      24,000
January 1, 1984                                   79,000
July 1, 1984                                      79,000
January 1, 1985                                  158,000
July 1, 1985                                     158,000
January 1, 1986                                  236,000
July 1, 1986                                     236,000
January 1, 1987                                  278,000
July 1, 1987                                     278,000
January 1, 1988                                  298,000
July 1, 1988                                     298,000
January 1, 1989                                  314,000
July 1, 1989                                     314,000
January 1, 1990                                  289,000
July 1, 1990                                     270,000
January 1, 1991                                  240,000
July 1, 1991                                     240,000
January 1, 1992                                  225,000
July 1, 1992                                     225,000
January 1, 1993                                  200,000
July 1, 1993                                     200,000
January 1, 1994                                  178,000
July 1, 1994                                     159,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.11 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                  Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     5.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                     6.85%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                     7.90%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects or SSI Projects" are
substituted for the words "the Project" at the end of Section
5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of such
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect of
any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or
(d) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the
Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
SSI - Scheme
1.   For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Guarantor and the Borrower shall maintain in operation the
same policies and procedures developed and implemented in connec-
tion with the SSI Scheme financed under the Prior Loan Agreement
dated June 3, 1976, including:
(a) the Guarantor will cause its Ministry of Commerce and
Industry to continue to assign at least four qualified civil
servants employed by such Ministry to work full-time as profes-
sionals for the SSI Scheme under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank and the Borrower. Such professionals or their replace-
ments will stay on the job under the supervision of the Borrower
for at least the period of disbursement of SSI loans;
(b) the Borrower will continue to assign to the SSI Scheme
three qualified officers; and
(c) the Guarantor will continue to enable the Borrower
to operate the SSI Scheme without incurring operational losses.
Specifically, the Guarantor will protect the Borrower against
such loss by providing, if and when needed, grants to allow
the Borrower to cover its administrative and financial expenses
and reasonable provisions on SSI bad debts, which are in excess
of the Borrower's income on it'. SSI loans.
2.   SSIs are defined as enterprises having the following charac-
teristics:
(i) employment of at least 4, but less than 40 em-
ployees; and
(ii) total fixed assets, prior to implementation of the
SSI Project, not exceeding C20,000; it being
specified that such upper limit shall be raised to
C930,000 in cases where the SSI Project involves
the merger of two or more existing SSIs prior to
imp lementati on.
3.   Eligible SSI Projects shall be restricted to SSIs as defined
above and to SSI Projects which require an estimated total
cost per project not exceeding C9.30,000. The maximum amount


﻿- 21 -
of the Borrower's financing of any SSI Project shall not
exceed 75 per cent of total SSI Project cost.


