Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15511
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
(LOANS 3121-22)
APRIL 3, 1996
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
(As of July 1989 Appraisal Report)
US$ = DH 8.60
DH1 = US$.116
(As of January 1995)
US$ = DH 8.62
DH1 = US$.116
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIH      -    Credit Immobilier et H6telier
MOF    -    Ministere des Finances
MOH    -    Ministere de l'Habitat
MOI    -    Ministere de I'Interieur
VIT      -    Maximum real estate value
(valeur immobiliere totale)
HBM      -    Low -and moderate- cost housing
(Habitat a Bon Marche)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   .......................................................    i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   ...........................................    i
PART I:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT   ........................   1
Background ..................................................   1
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives   ................................   1
Achievement of Objectives  ........................................   2
Major Factors Affecting the Project   ..................................   4
Project Sustainability  ............................................   4
Bank Performance   .............................................    5
Borrower Performance  ...........................................   5
Assessment of Outcome  ..........................................    6
Key Lessons Learned   ...........................................   6
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES  ........................................   8
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments  ..................................   8
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................   9
Table 3a: Project Timetable Loan 3121   ................................   9
Table 3b: Project Timetable Loan 3122   ...............................    10
Table 4a: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual: Loan 3121  ...                             ....   10
Table 4b: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual: Loan 3122  ...                             ....   10
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation to Loan 3121   ..............    11
Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation to Loan 3122  ..............    11
Table 6: Studies Included in Project  .................................    12
Table 7: Project Cost ...........................................    13
Table 9a: Status of Legal Covenants for Loan 3121  ........................    14
Table 9b:  Status of Legal Covenants for Loan 3122  .......................    15
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   ...............................    17
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions  .................................    18
ANNEX A.1: ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE (LOAN NO. 3121-MOR) ...............................  19
ANNEX A.2: ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE (Loan No. 3122-MOR)  ..................................   23
ANNEX B.1: MINISTRY OF INTERIOR'S COMMENTS ON PART 1 ...............  30
ANNEX  B.2: CIH's COMMENTS ON  PART  1   ..............................    32
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
(LOANS 3121-22)
PREFACE
i     This is a Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Housing Finance Project
in the Kingdom of Morocco, for which Loans 3121-MOR and 3122-MOR in the respective amounts
of US$ 3.0 million equivalent and US$77.5 million equivalent were approved on September 14,
1989.
ii    The closing date of Loan 3121-MOR to the Kingdom of Morocco was June 30, 1995.
However, the closing date of Loan 3122-MOR to the Credit Immobilier et Hotelier was December
31, 1994.
iii    The ICR was prepared by Miss Laura Burakreis of the Private Sector Development, Finance
and Infrastructure Division of the Maghreb and Iran Department, and reviewed by Mr. Amir Al-
Khafaji, Chief MNlPI, and Mr. Rene Costa, Projects Advisor, of the Maghreb and Iran Department.
iv    Preparation of this ICR was begun after Loan 3121-MOR closed. It is based on material in
the project file. Both borrowers contributed to the preparation of the ICR by analyzing their own
project files, commenting on the ICR, and submitting their own evaluation of project implementation
(see Annexes A and B).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
(LOANS 3121-22)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
i     The main objectives of the project were: (i) to increase the mobilization of resources for
financing housing construction and acquisition; (ii) to increase the relative share of investment and
credit addressed to low-cost housing; and (iii) to rationalize the land development and housing
production processes in order to facilitate low-cost housing construction.
ii    To meet these objectives, the project included several components. The first, the investment
component (US$ 77.0 million), provided financial support for an ongoing program of targeted lending
through CIH, a public development bank and the main supplier of construction loans and mortgage
loans in Morocco. The Bank partially financed CIH's loans to developers for construction and loans
to targeted households for acquisition of residential properties. The second component was for
technical assistance (US$ 0.5 million) for studies sponsored by CIH (i) to improve its knowledge and
understanding of the housing supply system; (ii) to develop new savings and credit products; and (iii)
to adapt its management information and internal audit systems to its new depository and lending
activities.
iii    The third component, the technical assistance component (US$ 3 million) to the Government
was a program of institution building designed to upgrade the capability of two key ministerial
departments, the Urban Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Housing Directorate of the
Ministry of Housing, to guide and facilitate land and housing development. This technical assistance
component financed studies sponsored by the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of Interior.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv    The first and main objective of the loan was largely achieved. The funds under the project
provided resources to CIH for loans to developers and home-buyers. These funds were committed
and disbursed rapidly. CIH financed a total of 10,800 houses or lots under the project, roughly two
thirds the projection of 15,000 units at appraisal.
v     The second objective was to increase the share of investment and credit addressed to low-cost
housing. This objective was not achieved during the implementation of the project. During the six
year period from 1989-1994, only 9% of CIH's commitments for building or purchasing individual
units were made under the low-and moderate-cost housing program, known as the Habitat Bon
Marche program. This is slightly lower than the percentage of commitments, equal to 10%, for the
two years preceding the project's approval.
vi    The third objective which was to rationalize land development and housing production
processes in order to facilitate low cost housing development and housing construction was also not
achieved during the implementation of the project. Helping the Government to increase the



ii
availability of appropriately priced serviced land, simplify housing construction procedures, reduce
excessively demanding infrastructure and building standards, and promote private entrepreneurs'
activity would have been greatly beneficial and would have fostered the achievement of the first two
main objectives. One of the studies was instrumental in engaging the Government in a dialogue on
sector reform. The data from the study were incorporated into a World Bank sector report and were
used in part as the basis of World Bank recommendations to Government on a strategy for the sector.
Although, few recommendations from the consultants' study resulted in policy reforms during the
implementation of the project, Government is still keenly focused on designing an appropriate strategy
and implementing reforms.
vii    As for the focused technical assistance to CIH, this component of the project was successful,
and fully met its objectives.
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
viii   Overall, the project can be rated "satisfactory", as it achieved its main objectives of resources
mobilization for housing construction and acquisition and institution building of CIH. As regards the
objectives not met, i.e., increased share of investment and credit to low-income housing and
improved land development, the project design was not appropriate to bring the necessary policy
reforms. However, since the lessons learned with the project have facilitated a better understanding
of the housing market and conditions in Morocco and have been taken into account in the design of
new housing development projects in this country, their impact on the overall project rating is deemed
to be minimal.
ix     An important lesson emerges from  this project. Shifting housing production towards
affordable standards is particularly needed to meet high volume demand resulting from social and
demographic pressure while containing public investment within the limits imposed by the country's
fiscal stabilization and economic adjustment.
x      The studies were an insufficient tool to bring about policy and regulatory reforms. Moreover,
greater availability of funds to CIH did not increase the share of investment and credit extended to
low-and moderate-cost housing, one of the stated objectives of the project. The force driving credit
origination is credit demand, which is inextricably linked to the availability of affordable housing.
The project was not properly designed to meet this objective early in the life of the project, for the
Bank and the Government did not address up-front the key issues in housing production.
xi    In future operations, key conditionalities for reforms should be identified and placed up-front
to increase the availability of affordable housing for low and moderate income families, by increasing
the availability of appropriately priced serviced land, simplifying pertinent administrative procedures,
modifying regulations governing infrastructure and construction, and promoting private entrepreneurs'
activity, as necessary.
xii    Another important lesson is that government subsidized low-and moderate-cost housing
program, which entail interest rate subsidies, are cumbersome for participating financial institutions
and likely to undermine their profitability in the event of non-timely government payments to the
financial institutions. An up-front payment of the subsidy to the developer or the participating bank,
would eliminate the risk of untimely payments of subsidies and the associated costs over the life of
a given loan. Moreover, such payments would be more transparent in the budget. The feasibility of
replacing subsidies that are given in the form of subsidized interest rates, with upfront grants in
Morocco is being studied under a Bank financed study.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    In the two decades preceding project identification, Morocco's urban population increased
rapidly, expanding from 29% of the total population in 1960 to 45% in 1986. The annual growth
rate of the population in urban areas was significantly above the overall population growth rate, 4.5 %
versus 2.6% p.a.. From the mid seventies, this rapid urbanization had taken place in the context of
a difficult economic situation. And, severe budgetary and balance of payments deficits, compounded
by the stagnation in real income, had constrained the capacity of the public and private sectors to
respond to the housing, infrastructure, and service needs of an increasing number of urban dwellers.
As a result, availability of and access to affordable housing in Morocco was an acute and entrenched
problem. The housing shortage was particularly severe for low income households. Overcrowding,
shared housing and shanty towns were visible consequences of this situation and affect negatively
social stability and economic development. Mortgage lending financed only 15% of related capital
investment compared with 20-25 % in most other developing nations. Credit mainly benefited the
construction of housing for middle- and higher income groups. Housing for low-income groups was
constrained not only by scarce financial resources, but also by the lack of appropriately priced land,
infrastructure and building regulations, and rigid administrative procedures. Shifting housing
production towards affordable standards was particularly needed to meet high volume demand
resulting from social and demographic pressure while containing investment within the limits imposed
by the country's fiscal stabilization and economic adjustment.
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
2.     Against this background, the project's aim was to help widen the scope and improve the
functioning of housing supply, with particular emphasis on low-and moderate-cost housing.' The main
objectives of the project were: (i) to assist CIH in mobilizing resources for financing housing
construction and acquisition; (ii) to increase the relative share of investment and credit addressed to
low-and moderate-cost housing; and (iii) to rationalize the land development and housing production
processes in order to facilitate low-cost housing construction. The above objectives were mutually
supportive. Formal credit contributed to financing a small fraction of housing investment by about
20% only; the bulk of resources was mobilized by households in the forms of accumulated savings
that were often kept out of the financial system. Helping CIH to develop savings scheme, that would
recycle these resources had an important multiplier effect.
3.     To achieve its objectives the project provided CIH with: (a) a line of credit (US$ 77 million)
to support its lending for low- and moderate-cost housing; (b) technical assistance funds (US$ 0.5
million) for studies: (i) to improve its knowledge and understanding of the housing supply system;
(ii) to develop new savings and credit products; and (iii) to adapt its management information and
internal audit systems to its new depository and lending activities; and (c) funds (US$ 3 million) to
the Government to carry out institution-building programs designed to upgrade the capability of two
key ministerial departments, the Urban Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Housing
Directorate of the Ministry of Housing, in order to guide and facilitate land and housing development.
1/    For the purpose of the project, low-cost housing means housing uniLs whose estimated value is DH 150,000 or less. Furthormore, moderate-cost housing means a housing unit
whose estimate value is more than DH 150,000, but not in excess of DH 300,000.



2
4.      The dialogue on the housing sector between the Bank and the Government dates back to the
mid-1970s. This project was the fourth in the housing sector. In the first two operations, approved
in 1978 and 1981, (Rabat Urban Development Project, Loan 1508-MOR and the Second Urban
Development Project, Loan 1508-MOR) MOH managed projects for upgrading of selected squatter
settlements and the development of shelter concepts affordable to the lowest income groups. The third
operation in 1983 (the First Housing Finance Project, Loan 2245-MOR), which was close to
completion during the appraisal of this project, focused on strengthening CIH's ability to lend for
low-and moderate-cost housing production, by funding technical assistance and construction and
mortgage loans. Experience under the First Housing Finance Loan indicated that the availability of
credit greatly enhanced the development of low and moderate cost housing and access to home
ownership. Hence the project, which was focused on financing construction of housing units and
mortgage loans for low and moderate income families, was deemed a logical step in the Bank's
support for development of the housing sector.
5.      The experience gained under the first housing finance project in Morocco, was incorporated
into the design of the project. The credit line component for CIH was designed with a view to ensure
rapid commitment of the line and subsequent disbursement of loan proceeds. The amount of the
credit was based on a careful review of the pipeline of eligible sub-projects. Moreover, sub-project
eligibility criteria were carefullv studied to avoid rigidities while ensuring the achievement of the
project's main objective. The Bank assistance also came at a critical juncture for CIH, which was
the key provider of mortgage loans in the financial system. CIH faced important challenges related
to resource mobilization, profitability, and recovery from the Government of arrears which were
related to foreign exchange risk losses and interest-rate subsidies.2 Toward this end, the project
aimed to improve CIH's profitability as well as its ability to mobilize resources, so that later it could
compete in a liberalized financial system. As for the loan to the Government, this loan was designed
to provide technical assistance, in the form of studies, to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry
of Housing. The Government was to exchange views with the Bank on the studies and thereafter
promptly take all action necessary to implement the programs and recommendations of the studies.
Without the Government's agreement on the sector strategy at the appraisal stage, it was unlikely that
this objective would be met in the course of the project. Simply having the studies carried out did
not commit the Government to rationalize the processes.
Achievement of Objectives
6.      The first objective of the loan was largely achieved. The funds under the project provided
resources to CIH for loans to developers and home-buyers and were committed and disbursed rapidly.
CIH financed a total of 10,800 houses or lots under the project, roughly two thirds the projection of
15,000 units at appraisal. Project costs related to the acquisition of these units totaled approximately
USD 177 million versus 350 million at appraisal.3
2/      Uinder the sharing arrangement. established in connection with the ITPA 11 Loan (June 1985) and applied to all specialized fiunncial institutions, CIH paid an interest rae on
its foreign borrowings equal to their actual ornleding rate (e.g., 12%) reduced by a 3%  spread. The difference between the resulting rate (i.e., 9%) and the rae carried by
the foreign loan (e.g., 8%), as well as a 1% comunission charged mn the relevant subloans were deposited by CIH in a foreign exchange risk furn i the name of the Treasuay
to be maintained on CIH's books and to be used to cover possible exchange losses. In the case of insufficient funds, the additional losses were usumed for an iniial 2% of
the currency devaluation by CIH and for the remnainder by the Treasury. Since these losses have largely exceeded the nargin between domestic and foreign interest raes, CIH
had accumulated substantial receivables from the Treasury, which did not pay them on time because of cash shortages.
3/      This cost figure is bawd on CIH loan data and an assumption that housing units were financed 90%with mortgage loans, and enly 10% with dhe cambutien of the borrower.
Data in the appraisal report is based on a sub-borrower's contribution of 50% which is equivalent to the subborrower's cntriibution for loans to developer iot to households.
Ths mostly explains the substantial difference in cost figures.



3
7.     The breakdown according to type of units financed is roughly consistent with the appraisal
estimates. The actual breakdown according to type of units financed is 43 % for units of a VIT of less
than 150,000, 52% for units between DH 150,000 and 300,000, and the remainder for the financing
of serviced lots. This is similar to the appraisal estimates which anticipated that 50% of project funds
would be for units with a VIT of less than DH 150,000, 45% for units between DH 150,000 and
300,000, and 5 % for the financing of serviced lots.
8.    The second objective was to increase the share of investment and credit addressed to low-and
moderate-cost housing. This objective was not achieved during the implementation of the project.
During the three year period from 1989-1994, only 9% of CIH's commitments for building or
purchasing individual units were made under the low-and moderate-cost housing program, known as
the Habitat Bon Marche program. This is slightly lower than the percentage of commitments, equal
to 10%, for the two years preceding the project's approval. That this second objective was not
achieved during the implementation of the project suggests that key factors influencing the supply and
the cost of housing should have been addressed in the project design to ensure that this objective
would be reached at an early stage in the project's life. That the percentage of commitment were
slightly lower over the implementation period also suggests that the availability of long term resources
to CIH was not a key factor in the origination of credits for low cost housing.
9.    The third objective, which was to rationalize the land development and housing production
processes in order to facilitate low cost land development and housing construction, was also not
achieved. Helping the Government to increase the availability of appropriately priced serviced land,
simplify housing construction procedures, reduce excessively demanding infrastructure and building
standards and to promote private entrepreneurs' activity would have been greatly beneficial and would
have fostered the achievement of the first two main objectives. In spite of the importance of these
studies and government's clear ownership of the technical assistance component, the Government
sponsored only one of the two key studies; for this reason only 26% of the loan to the Government
was disbursed. The first study on urban development plans, sponsored by the Ministry of Interior was
not carried out due to delays in concluding a contract with a consulting company. The second study
that was supervised by the Ministry of Housing was completed by October 1993 by the consultant
group TEAM MAROC. The analysis was comprehensive and provided diagnostics on several areas
of the housing supply system. It concluded with recommendations for reform concerning the
construction sector and housing construction materials. The greatest contribution of the study was
the wealth of data provided to Government and the Bank. The study was instrumental in engaging
the Government in a dialogue on sector reform. The data from the study were incorporated into a
World Bank sector report and were used in part as the basis of World Bank recommendations on a
strategy for the sector that the Government accepted. Although, few recommendations from the
consultants' study resulted in policy reforms during the implementation of the project, Government
is still keenly focused on developing a reform program and implementing reforms.
10.   Aside from these three objectives as laid out in the appraisal report, the project also aimed
to improve the competitiveness of CIH and its profitability. Technical assistance and key up-front
agreements on payment of Government arrears related to foreign exchange losses and interest rate
subsidies, were instrumental in improving CIH's financial position, in the first few years after loan
appraisal. Reaching an agreement on the settlement of arrears, which had accumulated in CIH's
balance sheet as of December 31, 1988, was even a condition of negotiation. In subsequent years,
however, arrears again accumulated, and in particular those related to interest rate subsidies thereafter
were never settled promptly by government, as specified in the guarantee agreement between
Government and the Bank.



4
11.    As for the focused technical assistance to CIH, this component of the project was successful,
and fully met its objectives. CIH adapted its institutional structure to its expanding activities and
rapidly expanded its branch network to mobilize household deposits. The later was a key component
of a new funding strategy to lower its cost of funds. With this change, during implementation of the
project CIH lowered its costs of funds from 8.9% to 7.9%, as a percentage of average assets, and
consequently its net interest margin also increased from 2.9% to 4.0%, as a percentage of average
assets.
12.   As for the overall profitability of CIH, by project closing, its tourism portfolio had severely
deteriorated and had become the focus of the Government and CIH management. By 1994, the
annual return on CIH's lending operations had fallen to 2.16% slightly below the project's target of
2.20%. This decline was the result of CIH taking provisions for loan losses equal to 2% of its
average assets. In so far as CIH previously may have cross subsidized its low and moderated income
housing loans with commercial loans in other sectors, the severe deterioration of the tourism portfolio
and related costs of provisioning and rescheduling agreements has weakened its ability to continue
such practices.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.    Several factors affecting the project were subject to Government control, and raise some
concerns about Government's commitment to the objectives of the project. The study to be sponsored
by the Ministry of Interior was not carried out essentially because of delays on the part of the
Ministry of Interior in concluding a contract. In the final stage of negotiating the contract, however,
it was the Ministry of Finance that objected to awarding the contract. The Ministry of Interior
successfully conducted an international bid for the project in 1994 on the basis of a short list, as per
the legal agreement and common Bank practice. The Ministry also selected a consultant that was
acceptable to the Bank. The Ministry of Finance, however, objected to awarding the contract because
the international bid was not open. It is worth noting that both the Ministry of Interior and the
Ministry of Finance requested that the project closing date be extended until March of 1996 to award
a contract and complete the study. However, the Bank denied the request, because the study could
be financed in a follow-up operation (See Annex C. 1). The Ministry of Housing, in contrast, by and
large managed their study well, and brought it to completion.
14.   Another factor under Government control affected CIH's ability to meet secondary objectives
under the project, these were to improve CIH's competitiveness and profitability. CIH's profitability
was undermined in the later years of the project by Government's non-payment of amounts due
related to the coverage of foreign exchange risk and interest rate subsidies. Such payments were the
obligation of Government under the guarantee agreement.
Project Sustainability
15.   The investment component of the project is sustainable. CIH will be able to fund subsidized
government program with domestic funds. CIH's deposit base and capacity to mobilize domestic
funds in the capital market has improved and is likely to improve further with its new strategy to
mobilize retail deposits and greater development of the capital markets. CIH's capacity to mobilize
resources, however, will become more dependent on its financial standing, with greater liberalization
and competition in the financial system. In this future environment CIH's focus will need to turn to
its profitability, and the Government will need to insure that the effective margin which CIH earns
on its lending activities in the low income housing program is sufficient to cover its actual costs.



5
Bank Performance
16.    The Bank's performance was satisfactory.  Identification, preparation, and appraisal took
place as scheduled. Negotiations and Board presentation were delayed by 6 months, however, as a
result of Government's reaching a settlement with CIH on those arrears which had accumulated as
of December 31, 1988. This was a condition of negotiations. As for the design of the project, the
Bank succeeded in designing the project so that the funds would be committed quickly and the first
objective of the project would be met, that is the financing of housing for low and moderate income
families. The design, however, was not well suited to achieve the third objective of the project, that
is to rationalize the land development and housing production processes in order to facilitate low cost
development and housing construction. This objective was too ambitious, given the design of the
project and, more specifically, the lack of an up-front commitment to pursue a particular strategy.
As for the supervision of the project, the Bank responded to the requests for approval of pending sub-
projects and technical assistance contracts.
Borrower Performance
17.    CIH's performance was highly satisfactory. In contrast to the first line of credit to CIH,
which was negatively affected by slow disbursements during the first few years of implementation,
CIH disbursed the proceeds of the second credit line at a fast rate. By August 1992, the line of credit
to CIH was fully disbursed, almost two and a half years before the date estimated at appraisal. Funds
for the related technical assistance component were also committed quickly and spent effectively. CIH
also largely fulfilled the financial covenants (see Table below) included in the Legal Agreement, with
the exception of submitting in a timely fashion its annual audit report. CIH promptly submitted all
other information which the Bank requested, and CIH and the Bank had a productive working
relationship.
Table 1: CIH's Compliance with Performance Indicators
1989      1990      1991       1992       1993       1994
Minimun annual return:                    2.2        2.5       2.4        2.6        2.7       2.2
A value no less than 2.2%, calculated as
operating income less interest payments and
provisions, divided by average assets
Maxinum operating expenses:               1.2        1.2       1.1        1.3        1.5       1.6
The value of expenses as percentage of average
assets not greater than 1.3%
Minimium equity to total assets:          1:17      1:14      1:17       1:16        1:15      1:16
Ratio of equity to total assets of not less than
1:18
Minimum liquity ratio on sight deposits:  NA         0.2      0.1         0.2        0.3       3.7
Value of not less than 20% for current assets as
a percentage of sight deposits
18.    The Government's performance in the project was less than satisfactory. Only 26%  of the
project funds for Government sponsored studies was disbursed, and only one of the two studies that
aimed to rationalize the supply of land and housing was completed within the context of the project.
Government, in addition, did not design an action plan or undertake substantive reforms based on the
findings and recommendations of the one study carried out, as had been expected by the Bank at
appraisal.



6
19.   With respect to commitments made to CIH, the Government fulfilled only some of its
commitments. The government fulfilled its explicit commitments to pay before the end of 1989 all
its arrears to CIH, which had accumulated, as of the end of 1988.  However, the Government
incurred new obligations to CIH in the succeeding years related to interest rate subsidies and the
foreign exchange risk coverage scheme, and it did not pay CIH promptly and honor its obligations,
as agreed upon in the guarantee agreement. The impact of arrears incurred after 1988 is significant.
By December 1994, according to CIH's audit report, government obligations related to the foreign
exchange risk coverage scheme totaled 154,610,000 DH (19.3 million USD) and those related to the
subsidized housing program totaled 290,180,000 DH (36.3 million USD). Since these are non-
interest-bearing assets, the effective cost to CIH of carrying these obligations in 1994 was roughly,
7 million U.S. dollars or stated otherwise equal to 50% of CIH's before tax income in 1994.
Assessment of Outcome
20.   This project is rated satisfactory. The project largely achieved its investment objectives,
however, the studies that were to be carried out under the project had only little impact on policy and
regulatory reform affecting the supply of low-and moderate-cost housing for low-and-moderate
income families, during the implementation of the project.
Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
21.    Overall, the project can be rated "satisfactory", as it achieved its main objectives of resources
mobilization for housing construction and acquisition and institution building of CIH. As regards the
objectives not met, i.e., increased share of investment and credit to low-income housing and
improved land development, the project design was not appropriate to bring the necessary policy
reforms. However, since the lessons learned with the project have facilitated a better understanding
of the housing market and conditions in Morocco and have been taken into account in the design of
new housing development projects in this country, their impact on the overall project rating is deemed
to be minimum.
22.   A main lesson emerges from this project. Shifting housing production towards affordable
standards was particularly needed to meet high volume demand resulting from social and demographic
pressure while containing investment within the limits imposed by the country's fiscal stabilization
and economic adjustment.
23.   However, the studies financed under the project were an insufficient tool to bring about
necessary policy reforms. Moreover, greater availability of funds to CIH did not increase the share
of investment and credit extended to low-and moderate-cost housing. As the Project Audit Report
of the First Housing Loan to CIH pointed out, long term resources are fungible, and Bank funds are
only a small fraction of CIH's resources. Consequently, the line of credit to CIH could not have
served to meet this objective. The force driving credit origination is credit demand which is
inextricably linked to the availability of affordable housing. Given that the Bank did not address up-
front the key issues in-housing production, and that the Government would address these issues only
after completion of the studies and after reaching consensus on a plan of action, the project was not
properly designed to meet this key objective during its implementation.
24.   In future operations, key conditionalities for reforms should be identified and placed up-front
to increase the availability of affordable housing for low and moderate income families, by increasing
the availability of appropriately priced serviced land, simplifying pertinent administrative procedures,
modifying regulations governing infrastructure and construction, and promoting private entrepreneurs'
activity, as necessary.



7
25.    Another important lesson is that government subsidized housing programs that entail interest
rate subsidies are cumbersome for participating financial institutions and likely to undermine their
profitability in the event of non-timely Government payments to the financial institutions. The
Government's poor track record on payments related to interest rate subsidies is a deterrent to
participation of private banks in the low income housing program in Morocco. An up-front payment
of the subsidy to the developer or the participating bank, would eliminate the risk of untimely
payments of subsidies and the associated costs over the life of a given loan. Moreover, such payments
would be more transparent in the budget. The feasibility of replacing subsidies that are given in the
form of subsidized interest rates, with upfront grants in Morocco is being studied under a Bank
financed study.



8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiective        Substantial        Partial       Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                        L                [                L i
Sector policies                       Li               n                                 Li
Financial objectives                  Ll                                L                ci
Institutional development            F3 Li r                                      
Physical objective                                                      El              El
Poverty reduction                     r.                                L 3i
Gender issue                          LLi                               Li
Other social objective                b                                  i               Li
Environmental objective               Li               r                Li
Public sector management              L                                 Li ni
Private sector management             L                El               EL
Other(specify)                        oi                L               Li
B. Proiect sustainabilitv                  Likely              Unlikely             Uncertain
C. Bank performance
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                               [I]
Preparation                                  r
Appraisal                                    O                                         IO
Supervision                                  El                                        C
D. Borrower performance
Highly satisfactoy      Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                  O                    E                    rD
Implementation                               E                    z
Covenant Completion                          [                    C
Operation (if applicable)                    Z]                   z
E. Assessment of outcome
Highly satisfactor      Satisfactory          Deficient
El                                       [ I



9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loar/credit line                            Purpose                          Date of Board             Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Loan 2245                     To encourage pnvate and public levelopers to       March 1983             Closed as of Dec.
First housing loan to Credit  produce low cost housing schemes affordable to low                        1989, and fully
Immobilier et Hotelier         income groups and to develop ClHhs ability to                           disbursed by Jan.
US$ 60 M                      appraise low-cost housing schemes and to advise                           1990.
private and public developers on low-cost housing
design.
Loan 2272                     To assist local communitLies in their eftirts to meet    April 1983      Closed as of Dec.
Communal Infrastructure fund   their basic infrastructure needs, and morp                               1989, and fully
(FEC) pilot project           specifically to assist FEC in formulating operating                      disbursed by Feb.
US$ 16 M                      principles for project financing.                                         1990.
Following operations
Loan 3618-21                  To provide serviced residentiai lots to squatter and    June 1993        On going and
Land development project for   low-incomc families provide medium-tern financing                        scheduled to close
low income families           to eligible private sector property developers for                       by June 2000.
US$ 130 M                     construction of housing for low-income families;
and to imprc.ve the housing finance sub-sector,
housing subsidy policies and the land delivexy
process.
Table 3a: Project Timetable Loan 3121
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned                 Date actual/
l                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           May 1988                       May 1988
Preparation                                                          May 1988                       May 1988
Appraisal                                                            June 1988                      June/July 1988
Negotiations                                                         Nov, 1988                      June 1989
Board presentation                                                   Jan. 1989                      Sept.1989
Signing                                                              Oct 1989                       Oct. 1989
Effectiveness                                                        Dec. 1989                      April 1990
Project completion                                                   Dec. 1993                      June 1995
Loan closing                                                         Dec. 1994                      June 1995



10
Table 3b: Project Timetable Loan 3122
Steps in project cycle                                 Date planned                  Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                             May 1988                        May 1988
Preparation                                                            May 1988                        May 1988
Appraisal                                                              June 1988                       June/July 1988
Negotiations                                                            Nov. 1988                      June 1989
Board presentation                                                     Jan. 1989                       Sept. 1989
Signing                                                                Oct. 1988                       Oct. 1989
Effectiveness                                                          Dec. 1989                       Dec. 1989
Project completion                                                     Dec. 1992                       Dec. 1992
Loan closing                                                           Dec. 1994                       Dec. 1994
Table 4a: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual: Loan 3121
(US$ millions)
FY91            FY92             FY93           FY94           FY95        FY96
Appraisal estimate                         0.5              1.5             2.5             3.0            3.0         3.0
Actual                                     0.0              0.0             0.3             0.5            0.6        0.8
Actual as % of estimate                    0                0               12              16.7           20.0       26.6
Date of last disbursement to date                                                                                     Oct. 1995
Table 4b: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual: Loan 3122
(US$ millions)
FY90          FY91            FY92           FY93            FY94          FY95
Appraisal estimate                        11.5          28.0             47.5           67.0           76.0          77.5
Actual                                    16.4          66.1             77.5           77.5           77.5          77.5
Actual as % of estimate                   142.6         236.1            163.2          115.7          102.0         100.0
Date of final disbursement                                                              Aug. 1992



11
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation to Loan 3121
Key implementation indicators in SAR/ President's Report
Estimated             Actual
MOI and MOH   institutional Development Programs':
-urban development plans and general study under the
supervision of MOI
-cost:                                                  US$  2 M              US$  0
-completion                                             Through Dec.
1992
- study on housing market and production system  and
constraints to low  and moderate- cost housing
development under the supervision of MOH:
-cost:                                                  US$  1 M              US$  .807 M
-completion                                             Dec. 1991             Oct. 1993
Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation to Loan 3122
Key implementation indicators in SAR/ President's Report
Estimated at          Actual
L ______________________________________________________________________       appraisal           at closing
1    Percentage of loan proceeds to be distributed for construction loans and their  80%                NA
consolidation into mortgages.
2    Percentage of loan proceeds to be distributed for individual housing         15%                   NA
construction loans
3    Percentage of loan proceeds to be distributed for land development loans     5 %                   4%
4    Number of low- and moderate-cost housing units provided by the loan          15,000                10,210
5    To ensure CIH's efficient operations and improve its financial position, CIH
agreed to maintain:
-minimum annual return as a % of assets;                               2.2%                  2.2%
-maximum operating expenses as a % of average total assets 1.3%;       1.3%                  1.6%
-minimum equity to total assets ratio 1:18;                            1:15                  1:17
-minimum  liquidity ratio on sight deposits 20%                        50%                   30%



12
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at appraisal
Study                                                                      Status         Impact of study
CIH ProRram:
Study on housing supply    This study will review the characteristics of the housing  Completed by    Objectives of the
system                   supply system to help CIH better adapt its lending to  Feb. 1993.      study were achieved.
housing supply needs. The study will include a survey of
national scope of developers, contractors, and owners of
new housing units.
Study on new lending and   This study will review the possible features and market  Completed by    Objectives of the
saving products           potential of three new products: (i)loans for the purchase   Feb. 1993.  study were achieved.
of existing housing units; (ii) loans for the purchase of
existing housing units; and (iii) home improvement loans.
The study will help CIH define the optimal terms and
conditions of each type of lending, quantify its potential
volume, and assess its impact on resource mobilization
and use.
Study to adapt the        These studies will be adapted to CIH's new depository  Completed by    Objectives of the
management information    and lending activities. This component will also finance  Feb. 1993.  study and the
and intemal audit systems,  computer related equipment.                                         procurement of goods
and procurement of                                                                              were achieved.
related computer
equipment
Government Program:
Urban development plans   To promote improvements in existing approaches,       Cancelled       None
and general study         procedures, and the regulatory system affecting the
preparation of urban master plans and land subdivision
plans, which in tum affect the supply of serviced land
and housing.
Study on housing supply    To improve the knowledge and understanding of the    Completed by    Objectives of the
housing production precess and system in both the formal   Oct. 1993  study were achieved
and informal sectors, as well as assess the impact of land-           and the findings were
use, infrastructure, and building regulations on the                  incorporated into the
development cost of housing and the modifications                     World Bank Strategy
required to foster low- and moderate- cost housing                    Note and were the
development.                                                          basis of certain
recommendations.



13
Table 7: Project Cost
Appraisal    Estimate    (US$M)              Actual/latest    Estimate    (US$M)
Local Cost     Foreign                      Local               Foreign
I Cost          Total         Cost                Cost           Total
IBRD supported units          274             77             351           99                 76.9           175.9
CIH sponsored studies                           .5          .5                                    .6         .6
MOH sponsored studies                           1            1                                    .8         .8
MOI sponsored studies                          2            2
TOTAL                         274             80.5           354.5          99                 78.4          177.4
Table 8: Project Financing
Appraisal    Estimate    (US$M)              Actual/latest    Estimate    (US$M)
Local Cost     Foreign                      Local               Foreign
Cost          Total          Cost               Cost           Total
IBRD                                          80.5           80.5                              78.4           78.4
CIH                            190                           190            81                                47
Sub-borrowers                  84                            84             18                                84
TOTAL                          274            80.5           354.5         99                 78.4           177.4



14
Table 9a: Status of Legal Covenants for Loan 3121
Original
Type    Present    fulfillment
Section              status      date           Description of covenant
Art. In      5        CP          Sept. 1990    The borrower shall employ consultants that will be satisfactory to the Bank
Sec. 3.02.a                                     based on their experience, terms and conditions of employment.
Art. III     9        NC          Dec. 1992     The Borrower shall take the necessary actions to ensure that the following
Sec. 3.02.b                                     plans and programs will be completed and a copy furnished to the Bank:
-develop and apply policies and procedures to enhance the efficient
preparation of urban development of priority areas of the Borrower's urban
centers, for the purpose of establishing a new operational system for urban
development using appropriate and efficient technical and financial
instruments; following theses criteria, develop pilot projects comprising:
-urban development, land-use plans, and action plans for the
development of priority areas of Larrache and El-Kebir,
-action plans for the development of priority areas within Tangier and
Rabat,
-base maps required for said plans.
-review the Borrower's legislative and regulatory system goveming urban
planning in Morocco, including the preparation of urban development and
land-use plans and the deployment of an operational implementation
system, and recommend measures to implement such urban plans and
programs,
C           Dec.1991      The Borrower shall take the necessary actions to ensure that the following
studies will be completed and furnished to the Bank:
-study to analyze the building and housing development facilities and
products, and the assessment of the cost elements, taking into
consideration the physical, regulatory, and procedural factors,
-recommend improvements to the regulatory, organizational and procedural
system for enhancing the quality and reducing the cost of low-and
moderate- cost dwellings, and serviced land for such dwellings,
-develop a monitoring system in the reform of data banks and establish an
implementation system to encourage improvements in the architectural
design and in the execution of low- and moderate-cost dwellings and land
development projects.



15
Table 9b: Status of Legal Covenants for Loan 3122
Original
Type    Present   fulfillment
Section                status    date            Description of covenant
LOAN AGREEMENT
Schedule 2                                       Borrower conmmitment to objectives and responsibilities under the project:
Part A        5       C                         Financing of Sub-projects aiming at the development and construction of
urban settlement sites for low and moderate cost dwellings consisting of the
preparation of residential and commercial plots and the construction on
roads, footpaths and water, sewerage, electricity and street lighting facilities
and the connection of said facilities to appropriate off-site infrastructure.
Part B        5       C                         Financing of Sub-projects aiming at the construction of low and moderate
cost dwellings, including the purchase of plots on which such dwellings are
to be constructed and other costs required for the construction of such
dwellings.
Pan C         10      C                         Carrying out of studies on:
I) the system of construction, marketing and financing of housing to
develop appropriate lending strategies and instruments to improve the
supply of housing,
2) the development and promotion of suitable lending instruments and
products designed too facilitate access to housing and improving the
existing dwellings,
3) the improvement of the management of information systems and the
internal audit department and the acquisition of computer equipment to
achieve the above objectives.
Schedule 5.1                                     Loans under Part A shall be made to developers under these conditions:
5.1.b         3       C          On going        For sub-projects:
- which is designed in a manner that the estimated value of a dwelling to
be constructed shall not exceed an estimated value DH 300,000;
- which are determined to be financially and economically feasible; and
- if the Sub-project is estimated to cost over the equivalent of DHl
20,000,000 or more, the subproject is to have a financial rate of
return equal at least to the interest rate charged by the Borrower.
5.1.c         3       C          On going       In case of development sites for single dwellings:
- the surface area that can be built upon shall not exceed an average of
120 square meters;
- at least 60% of the land to be developed is marketable; and
- at least 80% of the marketable land to be developed is for residential
purposes.
Schedule 5.2   3       C          On going       Each subloan under Part B to households shall be made under these
conditions:
5.2.a                                           To a beneficiary:
- which owns no dwelling other than the one to be constructed or
purchased under the Sub-project; and
- whose monthly income is determined to be not more than DH 3,000 in
the case of low cost dwellings.
5.2.b         3       C          Ongoing        For a Sub-project:
- which is for the construction or purchase of a dwelling whose value is
estimated not to exceed DH 300,000.



16
Art. III Sect.   3      C                          The Borrower shall:
3.03.
Dec. 1991          - ensure that the studies shall be completed;
- exchange views with the Bank on the studies and recommendations; and
- thereafter, promptly take all measures necessary to carry out said
recommendations taking into consideration the Bank's comments.
Art. IV        I        CP         On going        The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank not later than six months after the
Sect. 4.02.a                                       end of each year the audit report,
4.02.b         I        CP         On going        For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
- maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditure; and
- ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion as to whether
the statements of expenditure.
4.05.a        2        C          On going        Except at the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
- earn and annual return on its operations of not less than 2.2%;
- maintain, for each of its FY after its ending on Dec. 31, 88 a ratio of
total operating expenses to the average value of total assets of not higher
than 1.3%;
- maintain a ratio of current assets to current sight deposits of not less
than 1:5;
- maintain a ratio of Equity to total assets of not less than 1:18.
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
Art. Ill Sect    13     CP         On going        The Government shall at all times maintain the Foreign Exchange Risk
3.02.a                                             Coverage Scheme.
The Government shall take all necessary actions to ensure that:
3.02 b (i)     13       C          Dec. 1989          - total amount of arrears related to foreign exchange risk coverage
scheme, as of December 1988 are settled by the scheduled date; and
3.02 b (ii)    13       NC         Ongoing            - all other payments due related to the FX scheme should be settled
promptly.
Art. III Sect                                      The Guarantor shall take all necessary action to ensure that:
3.03
(a)            11       C          Dec. 1989          - total amount interest rate subsidies as of December 1988 to be settled by
the scheduled date;
(b)            11       NC         Ongoing            - thereafter amounts due related to interest rate subsidies should be paid to
CIH promptly.
Covenant types:
I   =  Accounts/audits
2    =  Financial perfonnance/revenue generation for beneficiaries
3    =  Flow and utilization of project funds
4    =  Counterpart funding
5    =  Management aspect of the project or executing agency
6    =  Environmnental covenants
7    =  Involuntary resettlement
8    =  Indigenous people
9    =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
10   =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11   =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12   =  Sectoral or cross
-sectoral policy/regulatory institutional action
13   =  Other
C    =  covenant complied with
CD   = complied with after delay
CP  =  complied with partially
NC  =   not complied with



17
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                               Actual
Stage of project cycle                           Weeks                                 Weeks
Preparation to appraisal                         n.a.                                  34.2
Appraisal                                        n.a.                                  31.6
Negotiations through Board approval              n.a.                                  54.6
Supervision                                      35                                    57.6
Completion                                       n.a.
TOTAL                                            158.7                                  178



18
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance   rating
Specialized                    Develop-
Stage of project cycle  Month/year    Number of    Days    staff skills    Implementa-          meant         Types of
persons       in     represented      tion status    objectives      problems
fieldI
Through appraisal        Oct. 1987      3              10       Municipal      n. r.           n. r.
engineer,
principal
urban
specialist,
April 1988     3             12       Municipal       n.r.            n.r.
engineer,
operations
analyst,
principal
urban
specialist
Appraisal through        June/July      6              18      Municipal       n. r.           n. r.
Board approval           1988                                  engineer,
operations
analyst,
principal
urban
specialist,
urban planner
consultants
Supervision              Dec. 1989      1             7        Municipal       n. r.           n.r.
engineer
Feb. 1990      1             11       Municipal       HS              HS           P, S
engineer
June 1990      1             9        Municipal       HS              HS            P, S
engineer
Oct. 1990      1             8        Municipal       HS              HS           S
engineer
June 1991      1             5        Municipal       S               HS           L, M, S
engineer
Oct. 1992      1             3        Municipal       S               S            L, P, T, S
engineer
Completion               None           -             -
Codes:
HS   =    Highly satisfactory
S     =    Satisfactory
US   =    Unsatisfactory
P     =    Procurement progress
S     =    Studies progress
L     =    Compliance with legal covenants
M     =    Project management performance
T     =    Technical assistance progress



19
ANNEX A.1: ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
(LOAN NO. 3121-MOR)
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MNISTRY OF HOUSING
GENERAL SECRETARIAT
DIRECTION DE LA PROMOTION IMMOBILIERE
November 30, 1995



20
I.    Project identification
Country:                   Kingdom of Morocco
Name:                      Second Housing Finance Project
Loan no.:                 3121-MOR
Amount of IBRD loan:      US$3 million
Effectiveness date:       March 30, 1990
Closing date:              December 31, 1994
II.    Project objectives and description
The Borrower was to implement a strategy that encourages the construction of affordable
housing for low-income households in urban areas through institution building and actions by the
Ministries of the Interior and Housing. To that end, two studies were planned under the project:
-     one on the implementation of urban development management tools to enhance the
efficient preparation of urban development plans. The Ministry of the Interior was
given oversight for this study;
-     a second study on the process of housing production and development in Morocco,
entrusted to the Ministry of Housing.
III.   Conditionalities
There were no specific conditions regarding the Ministry of Housing.
IV.   Evaluation of project activities
The project had the following technical assistance funds:
*     US$2 million to assist the Ministry of the Interior in developing, improving and
implementing streamlined urban policies and procedures;
*     US$1 million to assist the Ministry of Housing to improve the regulatory,
organizational and procedural system for housing.
The funds earmarked for the Ministry of Housing were used for the study and the purchase
of computer equipment. Two contracts were signed under the project, namely:
-     Contract no. 90502, for the purchase of computer hardware, its installation, training
and equipment maintenance, to be used in the study on Morocco's housing
production and development. The contract was awarded to Altair Technologies
Services S.A. in the amount of DH 999,719.77, including taxes.
-     Contract no. 90501, for the study of housing production and development, awarded
to Team-Maroc/Team-International in the amount of DH 7,568,232, including taxes.
The study was intentionally delayed in order to finalize the methodological details
(February 1991) and was completed in 1994.



21
The objectives of the study were as follows:
1.    Analysis of housing production structures and capacity through an evaluation of the
current production potential of all stakeholders in the construction sector and an
understanding of the determinants of cost prices by housing category, given the
physical, regulatory and procedural factors;
2.    The proposing of regulatory, organizational and procedural measures to improve the
quality of housing, reduce its cost and optimize the production of serviced lots and
housing built by low- and medium-income households;
3.    The development of a monitoring system for the sector in the form of housing
management information (observatoires d'information) and technical monitoring
systems aimed at improving the quality of architectural designs and the
implementation of sites and services projects and the construction of housing for low-
and medium-income households.
The reports produced under the study are as follows:
A.    Report on housing production structures in Morocco, in six parts:
1.    project managers
2.    contractors
3.    contracting authorities
4.    finance agencies
5.    construction materials
6.    unauthorized housing neighborhoods
B.    Report on housing production costs, in two parts:
1.    housing characteristics
2.    production costs and modeling
C.    Report containing proposals and measures, as follows:
1.    description and analysis of the housing production process in Morocco
2.    housing finance
3.    housing management information system
4.    recommendations
5.    summary and audiovisual package
6.    methodology
Finally, the study was carried out under excellent conditions and the findings were most
satisfactory. Even though the study got off to a late start, this did not have any impact on the quality
of the results.



22
The study culminated with the organization of a colloquium on housing on October 27-28,
1994, which was attended by all ministries, national and international institutions and other housing
stakeholders. It accordingly provided an opportunity to discuss the findings of the study and to
propose recommendations, in particular concerning:
-     real estate development and the property market
-     housing finance and taxation
-     housing production costs.



23
ANNEX A.2: ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Loan No. 3122-MOR)
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
(CIII)
FINANCE AND TREASURY DEPARTMENT
December 13, 1995



24
I.    GENERAL INTRODUCTION
Like most developing countries, Morocco has a considerable housing shortage.
Aware of the priority to be accorded to meeting the housing needs of the populace,
government officials have taken a host of measures to promote the housing sector and low-cost
housing in particular.
Thus, in terms of regulations, incentives have been provided for the sector as follows:
revision of standards for the definition of low-cost housing and raising of the benefi-
ciary income cutoff for such housing from DH 3000 to DH 3600, in order to reflect
changes in a number of components of the cost of housing;
tax exemptions over the first five years as regards the turnover tax, corporation tax,
the tax on profits from the construction of low-cost housing wherever located, and
from any subdivision or construction project located in small and medium-sized urban
centers;
-     a 50% reduction in these taxes during the first five years for projects located in major
cities;
-     exemption from the VAT on loans for the construction of housing whose estimated
value is less than DH 500.000 and which does not exceed 150m2;
-     exemption from the VAT on the construction of housing whose built area and total
value per housing unit do not exceed 100m2 and DH 200,000 respectively;
-     2 point interest rebate for loans to purchase housing whose estimated value is
between DH 200,000 and DH 350,000 and 6 points for housing whose estimated
value is less than DH 150,000.
In addition, the Government directly promoted low-cost housing in an effort to eliminate slum
areas. These efforts were channeled through public establishments specialized in housing such as the
seven regional development and construction establishments (etablissements d'amenagement et de
construction -- ERAC), the National Infrastructure and Construction Company (SNEC), National
Agency for the Elimination of Substandard Housing (ANHI) and the ATTACHAROUK Company.
In the same vein, in 1995 the Government launched an ambitious project for the construction
of 200,000 low-cost dwellings. A first tranche of the program covering the construction of 48,000
units began in 1995 and will be completed in 1997. The tranche will be financed by CIH, the
commercial banks and the Caisse de Dep6ts et de Gestion, entailing total funding of DH 6.3 billion.
Meanwhile the World Bank, as part of its policy of supporting the social sectors, has
contributed to this effort since 1983 by providing specific lines of credit to finance low-income
housing.



25
In this context, CIH has benefitted from three IBRD lines of credit:
-     the first, Loan 2245-MOR, was made available in 1983 in the amount of US$60
million;
-     the second loan, 3122-MOR, discussed in this report, was provided in 1989 in the
amount of US$77.5 million;
-     a third line of credit, for US$40 million, was agreed in 1993 and should be totally
disbursed before the end of 1995.
II.    FEATURES OF IBRD LINE OF CREDIT 3121/3122-MOR
IBRD Loan No. 3122 is the second line of credit made by the World Bank to CIH for the
refinancing of credits for the construction of low-cost housing. The general loan conditions as set
forth in the Agreement are as follows:
1. Amount:          US $77,500,000
2. Duration:        20 years, of which 5 grace
3. Repayment:       30 six-monthly installments
4. Interest rate:  IBRD lending rate + 0.5 %
5. Commitment fee:  0.25 %
6. Eligibility criteria:
The following operations may be refinanced under the line of credit:
(a)    Subdivision and servicing of lots for the construction of housing for low- or
middle-income households that meet the following criteria:
-     the housing to be built on the subdivided lots must be worth an estimated
value less than or equal to DH 300,000 and must be no larger than 120m2;
-     at least 60% of the land to be serviced must be saleable;
-     at least 80% of the saleable land must be used for residential purposes.
(b)    Pre-financing, self-construction or the purchase of housing for low-income house-
holds, provided that:
the estimated value of the dwelling is less than DH 150,000;
the house is smaller than 100m2;
the beneficiary's income is less than DH 3000.
(c)    Pre-financing, self-construction or purchase of housing to be used by middle-income
households, provided that the estimated value is between DH 150,000 and DH
300,000.
(d)    Carrying out of studies on housing construction, marketing and finance systems.
(e)    Purchase of necessary computer hardware for sound management of refinanced
sub-projects.



26
7. Financing ratio:
Lot servicing operations                              50%
Self-construction prefinancing or purchase
of housing for which VIT (valeur immobiliere totale,
or maximum property value) < = DH 150,000             65%
Self-construction prefinancing or purchase of
housing for which VIT is between DH 150,000
and DH 300,000                                       40%
Technical assistance                                  100%
III.   USE OF THE LINE OF CREDIT
As can be seen from the following table, unlike the previous line of credit (2245-MOR) for
which repayment was spread out over a very long period of eight years, the credit line under Loan
3122-MOR was utilized in two years. This is due primarily to the more flexible refinancing
conditions under the latter loan, which were less restrictive than for the former, especially with
regard to higher estimated cutoff values for refinanceable housing and the refinancing through the
retroactive effect of loans frozen after October 1, 1988. Disbursements under line of credit
3122-MOR were as follows:
Year             Amount in DH              Amount in $              % of Loan
1990            398,136,869.64            48,053,984.17              62.01%
1991            242,144,165.97            29,226,109.93              37.71%
1992              1,825,757.85              219,905.90                0.28%
Total            642,106,793.46           77,500,000.00                100%
A. IBRD line of credit 3122-MOR as a share of CIH resources
CIH issues in foreign exchange from 1990 to 1992 (in DH millions)
l  Year    External    Resources in Foreign    Withdrawals/      B/A      C/B     C/A
resources (A)     exchange (B)          3121 (C)
1990        3,517             1,189                398          34%      33%      11%
1991        3,588              242                 242           7%      100%     7%
1992        3,223              169                  2            5%       1 %     0%
Total       10,328             1,600               642           15%     40%       6%
The above table shows that during the three years from 1990 to 1992 CIH mobilized total
external resources of DH 10,328 million, of which DH 1600 million, i.e. 15 %, in foreign exchange.
Withdrawals under line 3122 represented 40% of funds disbursed under external financing lines
denominated in foreign exchange. Compared to total external resources mobilized during the
ab- e-mentioned reference period, withdrawals under the credit line accounted for only 6%.



27
B. IBRD line of credit 3122-MOR as a share of housing finance
Type of credit       Disbursements    Disbursements   Disbursem    No. of     Average
US$            DH (A)        ents in %    dwellings   credit DH
or lots
OPVT (land development      3,383,543.41    28,033,497.73      4%          590       95,029
loans)
150,00 < = VIT             33,513,992.44    277,871,753.30    43%        6,835       62,500
150,00< VIT < = 300,00   39,953,977.86    331,028,632.41      52%        3,375      245,206
Technical assistance        648,486.29      5,372,870.02       1%
TOTAL              77,500,000     612,106,753.46     100%        10,800
The number of dwellings or housing lots financed by this line of credit was 10,800 i.e. 44% of
the total number of units financed during the three years from 1989 to 1991. In financial terms, this
represents total disbursements of some DH 642.1 million and accounts for 13% of real estate loans made
available by CIH during the same reference period referred to above.
The distribution of refinanced loans by category of dwelling indicates that 52 % of disbursements
were for loans relating to housing with an estimated value between DH 150,000 and DH 300,000,
whereas the share of low-cost housing was 43%. Lot servicing projects received only 4 % of dis-
bursements.
IV.    EVALUATION OF IBRD CREDIT LINE 3121/3122-MOR
Compared to CIH's other financing arrangements, the IBRD line has several advantages, in
particular:
1. Interest rate
Compared to the market rate, the interest rate associated with the line of credit is favorable (IBRD
reference rate plus an intermediation margin of 0.5 point).
The interest rate is variable and from January 1990 through July 1995 moved downwards overall
from 7.73 % for the first payment in January 1990 to 7.13 % for the payment on July 15, 1995. On
average, the rate was 7.51 % during the above-mentioned reference period, which is markedly lower than
under the previous line of credit (2245), when the rate was 1.97% in 1983 and fell to 7.70% by 1990.
An important factor to be considered in calculating the financial cost of this loan is the
amortization coefficient, which overall developed favorably.
In practice the average amortization coefficient for payments made up to now is 0.9557. The
currency pool system, whose goal is to spread the exchange risk across the totality of Bank borrowers,
therefore considerably benefitted this line of credit, as regards both the payment of principal and interest.



28
The commitment fee was 0.25% instead of the 0.75% charged on Loan 2245-MOR. Hence
the amount in question was only DH 1,592,335.67 as against DH18,061,276.93 on the earlier loan.
This represents only 0.25% of the loan amount, compared to 3.36% for loan 2245-MOR.
2. Long-term stable fmancing
The second advantage of this line of credit lies in its term of 20 years. As CIH grants
mortgages for 15 to 25 years, the Bank loan provided it with relatively stable resources over 20
years, as against the 17 years for the previous line of credit. Given that IBRD loans are designed to
finance a two-stage process, i.e. construction of houses and their purchase, and to make it
unnecessary for the Borrower to have recourse to other resources, it would be desirable for the dura-
tion of lines of credit to be brought into line with that of low-cost housing mortgages, i.e. 23 years
on average.
3. Flexibility in the disbursement procedure
The procedure for withdrawing funds under IBRD line of credit 3122-MOR is flexible and
simple. Justification for disbursements take the form of a detailed work progress report prepared by
CIH technical services.
All disbursements require the following certified documents duly signed by the authorized
agents of CIH:
-   disbursement request, in two copies
-   expenditure statement, in two copies
-   form D, in two copies.
In addition, computer monitoring of refinanced programs that shows current status of the
dwellings is available at all times.
V.    Relations with the Bank
Relations with the Bank were cordial and characterized by mutual trust.
The commitment of the two parties to carry out the project successfully required frequent
contacts, all of which were characterized by a spirit of openness and mutual understanding. In this
connection, the various missions that visited CIH to monitor this line of credit should be mentioned.
The second IBRD credit line, discussed in this report, was followed by a third, which
incorporated two restrictions: the refinancing both of loans for the purchase of housing and of
programs launched by public agencies is excluded.
Limiting the benefits of the credit to private promoters entails a reduction in its size, since
most low-income housing programs are carried out by public agencies. Private operators, although
controlling construction costs more effectively, are not interested in this market niche, whose
profitability is less attractive.
Consequently, to help make up the deficit in low-income housing and enable low-income
groups to obtain access to financing for home purchase, future Bank assistance should restore the



29
categories excluded from the third credit line.
This strategy is particularly justified in Morocco's case in light of the 200,000 low-cost
housing units launched recently by the public authorities, whose success depends on financing being
found. Given the small local financial market, IBRD assistance is key to the success of this program,
which to a large extent is being promoted by state agencies.
The negotiations between the CIH and IBRD on a fourth credit line to finance low-income
housing should focus on the following points:
this line wouid basically be applied to the financing of dwellings that are part of the
200,000-unit program. Programs initiated by public agencies and loans for home purchase
should therefore be reincorporated in Bank financing, since the first tranche of 48,000
units will be built almost entirely by public agencies, and the most important stage of the
process is financing the buyers, not prefinancing the promoters.
finally, the Bank should reintroduce the fixed interest rate system for some categories of
loans to whose beneficiaries the variable rate cannot be applied, so as to avoid exposing CIH
to the exchange risk and match types of rates between uses and source of funds..
The financing of low-income housing is a case in point, since the management of individual
loans on a variable rate basis is very burdensome; in financing these loans the Bank should reconsider
a system based on fixed rates.



30
ANNEX B.1: MINISTRY OF INTERIOR'S COMMENTS ON PART 1
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Directorate General of Urban Development and Design and Regional Planning
Directorate of Urban Development and Design
Urban Planning Division
Office of the Minister
Rabat, January 15, 1996
The Division Chief
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Country Department I, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
Subject: Second Housing Finance Proiect (Loan 3121-MOR)
Ref:    Your fax of December 14. 1995
We acknowledge receipt of your abovementioned fa message referring to the draft version
of the World Bank's [Implementation Completion] Report on the Second Housing Finance Project,
a communication in which you ask for the comments of the Directorate General of Urban
Development on the project [component] to develop instruments on which to base a new operational
system for urban development -- that is, the study identified as Part A of Loan 3121-MOR. In reply,
I wish to inform you that the contract for this study was not approved by the Ministry of External
Finance and Investment because a limited competitive bidding process was employed.
Given the specific characteristics of this study, limited competitive bidding for selection of
consultants was decided on for three main reasons:
*  Conformity with the minutes of the loan negotiations: The terms of Loan Agreement 3121-MOR
stipulate, in the article dealing with procurement, that the Ministry of Interior should issue a
direct limited international call for bids.
*  Budget constraints: It was agreed with the Bank that as a first step limited competitive bidding
and a budget of US$400,000 would be used for the "general study" [Part A] portion of the
project. On successful completion of this work, another round of international competitive
bidding, this time open, was to be launched for the rest of the loan. However, the sum allocated
for the general study meant that an open international bidding process was out of the question,



31
since its cost would have been high compared to the total budget.
* Basis of prequalification: The limited call for tenders was issued on the basis of an open
international call for tenders previously issued by the Directorate General of Urban Development,
on September 30, 1986, as part of the process of pre-qualifying parties interested in bidding on
contracts to execute urban development and regional planning studies.
In order to facilitate commitment to this contract [for the general study] on the part of the
Expenditure Commitments Control Division of the Ministry of Finance, the Directorate General of
Urban Development complied with all the Division's requirements, particularly in respect of the use
of limited competitive bidding.
In view of the above, and given the importance the Directorate General of Urban
Development places on this study, I ask that you examine the possibility of extending the loan closing
date and also that this request be included in the final version of the [Implementation Completion]
Report submitted to the Executive Board of the Bank. Such an extension of time would mean that
this project [component] could be re-launched on a new basis that would include reformulation not
only of its objectives but also of the requirements surrounding the procurement process.
Isl Lahcan Tagrit
Office of the Minister, etc.



32
ANNEX B.2: CIH's COMMENTS ON PART 1
Casablanca, January 12, 1996
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIHI)
Finances and Treasury Department
COMMENTS ON DRAFT COMPLETION REPORT ON IBRD
LOAN 3122/MOR
I. INTRODUCTION
We consider the evaluation report prepared by World Bank experts on Loan 3122/MOR to
be complete and to contain a wealth of information on the housing sector, in that it discusses all the
components connected with development of production of low-cost housing in Morocco and explains
the obstacles in the way of large-scale provision of housing for low-income households.
The report as a whole is accordingly viewed as most conclusive, since it underscores the
handicaps which are the root causes of the present housing shortage which affects low-income
households in particular, such as:
-     non-availability of affordable sites,
-     property taxation,
-     the regulations governing infrastructure and construction,
-     the inflexibility of the pertinent administrative procedures,
-     the lack of adequate financial resources,
-     the additional financial burden caused by the Treasury's delays in paying over to CIH
the interest rebates due on eligible loans, together with the exchange differential.
The conclusions of the evaluation, namely that the objectives initially set for the project were
partially achieved, are also very objective and realistic; however, certain points regarding the new
housing refinancing strategy, and also some quantitative data used in the evaluation warrant
discussing.
We accordingly trust that our comments and suggestions set out in the following can be taken
into consideration by the Bank's Board, with a view to enabling IBRD to contribute more effectively
toward accomplishment of the objectives set for the housing sector as a whole, and for low-cost
housing in particular.



33
II.    COMMENTS
A.    THE FINANCING STRATEGY
As noted in the report, the World Bank's objective in the Moroccan housing sector is
threefold, namely:
To help CIH mobilize resources for financing housing, through the granting of
subloans to promoters and buyers;
to increase the relative amounts of capital investment and credit for low-cost housing;
to rationalize the site development and housing construction process in order to
facilitate the building of low-cost housing.
Regarding these three closely interrelated points, we have noted a fundamental change in the
Bank's strategy, consisting in a very marked reduction of its sphere of action by exclusion of both
CIH loans to public promoters for housing construction and also the long-term loans to buyers which
form the last link in the chain leading to property ownership.
In view of the volume of funds required for financing these two categories of subloans,
compared with a national capital market of still very limited scope, support by the Bank in financing
these two categories would undoubtedly help to stimulate the real estate sector and to ensure a more
plentiful supply of low-cost housing.
As we see it, limitation of the lines of credit to private promoters simply constitutes a brake
on the production of social housing, since the bulk of the construction programs in this category are
carried out by public promoters.
Private promoters, while better able to keep construction costs under control, are not for the
moment showing interest in this type of work because of its less attractive profitability. These
operators, who are used to earning comfortable profit margins on building homes of a certain
standing, as a result of their thorough knowledge of the market, are not prepared to risk their
resources in social projects requiring a special design, investment and marketing effort.
This is all the more true now that the first tranche of 48,000 low-cost units, included in the
ambitious program launched by the authorities and aimed at production of 200,000 dwellings, will
be executed almost exclusively by the public sector.
Moreover, and in light of the principle that the selling price of low-cost dwellings results
from the law of the market regardless of the nature of the promoter, it might be appropriate to let
competition exercise its pressure on the prices of the dwellings offered, and to provide CIH with the
sources of financing needed to meet the demand for credit without restriction as to type of promoter.
As regards the loans for buyers, we consider it necessary that the Bank provide for their
refinancing by means of lines of credit to be set up later, because in addition to the very limited
capacity of the national capital market, there are absolutely no suitable resources available in the
market, bearing in mind that the terms of CIH subloans for purchase of low-cost housing can be as
long as 25 years.



34
An approach along the lines suggested would therefore make it possible to offset the dearth
of long-term funds in the national market while also placing at CIH's disposal an adequate volume
of funds suitable for very long-term lending.
B.      ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THE PROJECT'S OBJECTIVES
NUMBER OF DWELLINGS FINANCED FROM THE LINE BELOW TARGET:
In point of fact, as is evident from the report prepared by CIH for the evaluation of Loan
3122/MOR, nearly US$70 million was allocated to partial financing of 10,800 housing units or plots,
instead of 15,000 units as specified by IBRD at the time Loan 3122/MOR was granted.
The number of dwellings financed with the loan proceeds remains, in our opinion, very
reasonable, and the fact that this number is smaller than the initial target is in no way due to an
increase in the cost of housing.
The fact is that during the period 1989/91 the cost of low-cost housing remained relatively
stable, as is demonstrated by the average subloans granted by CIH from the loan funds for each
category of housing.
Thus, for dwellings the VIT (Valeur Immobiliere Totale or Total Property Value) of which
does not exceed DH 150,000, whereas the maximum allowable subloan can be DH 135,000, i.e. 90%
of the VIT, the average refinancing from the line of credit was only around DH 625,000, which
explains the financing of a large number of units.
The same applies for the category with VIT between DH 150,000 and DH 300,000, for which
the average CIH subloan was about DH 245,000.
REDUCTION OF THE PROPORTION OF LOW-COST HOUSING SUBLOAN
APPROVALS IN CIH'S TOTAL ACTIVITY
A decline in low-cost housing subloan approvals in CIH's total activity to 8%, compared with
10% earlier, was indeed observed during the three-year period 1990-92. However, the importance
assigned by the Moroccan State to this form of housing financing will unquestionably result in an
unprecedented increase in this category as of the 1995 fiscal year.
That year was in fact when construction of an initial tranche of 48,000 low-cost dwellings
was started, which are programmed to be placed on the market as of the second half of 1997.
Execution of this tranche will require an estimated DH 6.3 billion, to be mobilized by CIH
by means of sale of bonds to the banking system and to the Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion. In view
of the scale of this operation, financial support from IBRD is earnestly sought, the more so since
these are programs to produce low-cost housing intended exclusively for low-income households, and
at very carefully calculated low prices.



35
IMPROVEMENT OF CIH'S COMPETITIVENESS AND PROFITABILITY
In order to eliminate the losses caused by the delayed payment of interest rebates due to CIH,
the principle has been adopted of advance authorization by the Treasury of sums becoming payable
over a twelve-month period. These payments will take the form of an advance of DH 3 million from
which CIH will be authorized to draw the rebates due to it. This fund will be regularly replenished
by the Treasury whenever necessary.
Regarding the hotel portfolio, it should be noted that the solution adopted, consisting of
restructuring and rescheduling of the debt and of the amount overdue, will make it possible to
rehabilitate this portfolio and thereby put an end to the non-recovery of installments due on loans
granted to this sector.
As regards the margin on lending for low-cost housing programs, the tripartite negotiations
between the Moroccan monetary authorities, CIH and the potential subscribers to the bonds that CIH
will issue for the 200,000-unit program, have resulted in agreement on the following:
*     The bonds to be issued as needed will bear interest at a rate that will enable CIH to
obtain, at all times, a margin of 2.5 points with respect to the rates for the subloans
to be granted under the program. The term of these bonds will also be aligned on
the maturities of the CIH loans to the promoters and to future buyers.
The bonds will be guaranteed by the Moroccan State, for whom CIH will act as
agent.









IMAGING
Report No:       15511
Type: ICR



