Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3121 MOR
                 (Second Housing Finance Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 27, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3121 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1989, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  term "Special
Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent to the  amount  of  three million dollars ($3,000,000),
being the sum of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of such
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of services required for  the  Project  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the  purposes of the Project, open
and  maintain  a   special   account,   on  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,   in   a  currency  and  a  financial
institution, both satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  3
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through its  Ministry  of  Interior  and  Information  and  Part B
thereof through its Ministry  of  Housing,  all with due diligence
and efficiency and in  conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic,  financial  and  urban  planning  practices,  and  shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  employ,  not  later than
September  30,  1990,   consultants:   (i)  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to  the  Bank;  and  (ii)  who  shall  be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  The  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
     (b)  The Borrower shall take  all  action necessary to ensure
that: (i) the plans and  programs  to be developed under Part A(2)
of the Project and the  study  to  be  carried out under Part A(3)
thereof shall be  completed  and  copies  thereof furnished to the
Bank not later than December  31,  1992;  and (ii) the study to be
carried out under Part B of  the  Project shall be completed and a
copy thereof furnished to  the  Bank  not  later than December 31,
1991.
     (c)  The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportu-
nity to exchange views with  the  Borrower on said plans, programs
and studies and shall  thereafter  promptly take all action neces-
sary to ensure the proper  implementation of said programs and the
recommendations based on  said  studies,  taking  into account the
Bank's comments thereon.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  assign   qualified  staff  of  its
Ministries of Interior and Information  and of Housing in adequate
numbers: (i) to assist the consultants employed in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) of  this Section for Parts A and B
of the Project;  and  (ii)  thereafter  to update and disseminate,
in accordance with  the  policies  and  procedures developed under
Parts A and B of  the  Project,  data required for the preparation
and updating of  urban  development  plans  and  for the documents
related to the study of housing production.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
Page  4
               graph (a) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministry of Finance
         Rabat
         Kingdom of Morocco
                                             Telex:
                                                31936 M
Page  5
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                   By /s/ A. Benjelloun
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             of %
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'           2,000,000          100%
     services,
     including
     preparation of
     base maps, and
     related equipment
     for Part A of
     the Project
(2)  Consultants'           1,000,000          100%
     services and
     related equip-
Page  6
     ment for
     Part B of the
     Project
                            _________
         TOTAL              3,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $300,000, may
be made on account of  payments  made for expenditures before that
date but after September 1, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
implementing its strategy to  promote  the development of suitable
low- and moderate-cost  housing  within  its urban centers through
the  strengthening  of  the   institutional  capabilities  of  the
Borrower's Ministries of Interior and Information and of Housing.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Carrying out of a study to:
(1)  Develop and  apply  policies  and  procedures  to enhance the
efficient preparation of  urban  development,  land-use plans, and
action  plans  for  the  development  of  priority  areas  of  the
Borrower's urban centers, for  the  purpose  of establishing a new
operational system  for  urban  development  using appropriate and
efficient technical and financial instruments.
(2)  Prepare,  on  the  basis   of  the  policies  and  procedures
developed  under  Part  A  (1)  of  the  Project,  pilot  projects
comprising: (i)  urban  development,  land-use  plans,  and action
plans for the development of  priority areas for the agglomeration
of Larrache and  Ksar  El-Kebir,  and  implementation programs for
said plans; (ii)  action  plans  for  the  development of priority
areas within Rabat and Tangier;  and  (iii) base maps required for
said plans.
(3)  Review  the  Borrower's  legislative  and  regulatory  system
governing urban planning in  Morocco, including the preparation of
urban development and  land-use  plans  and  the  deployment of an
operational implementation system, for the purpose of recommending
measures to facilitate  the  proper preparation and implementation
of such urban plans and programs.
Part B:
     Carrying out of a study to:
(1)  Analyze  the  existing   building   and  housing  development
facilities and products through the  evaluation of the capacity of
all entities concerned, and  the  assessment of the cost elements,
taking into consideration the physical, regulatory, and procedural
factors.
(2)  Recommend improvements to  the regulatory, organizational and
procedural system for enhancing the  quality and reducing the cost
of low- and moderate-cost  dwellings,  and  serviced land for such
dwellings.
(3)  Develop a monitoring system  in  the  form  of data banks and
establish an implementation  system  to  encourage improvements in
Page  7
the  architectural  designs  and   in  the  execution  of  low-and
moderate-cost dwellings and land development projects.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1995                                  55,000
July 15, 1995                                     55,000
January 15, 1996                                  60,000
July 15, 1996                                     60,000
January 15,1997                                   65,000
July 15, 1997                                     65,000
January 15, 1998                                  70,000
July 15, 1998                                     70,000
January 15, 1999                                  75,000
July 15, 1999                                     75,000
January 15, 2000                                  80,000
Jyly 15, 2000                                     85,000
January 15, 2001                                  85,000
July 15, 2001                                     90,000
January 15, 2002                                  95,000
July 15, 2002                                     95,000
January 15, 2003                                 100,000
July 15, 2003                                    105,000
January 15, 2004                                 110,000
July 15, 2004                                    110,000
January 15, 2005                                 115,000
July 15, 2005                                    120,000
January 15, 2006                                 125,000
July 15, 2006                                    130,000
January 15, 2007                                 135,000
July 15, 2007                                    140,000
January 15, 2008                                 145,000
July 15, 2008                                    150,000
January 15, 2009                                 160,000
July 15, 2009                                    175,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment,    multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
Page  8
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to  $200,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
Page  9
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-
               ments and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Alloca-
tion.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  10
