Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3122 MOR
                 (Second Housing Finance Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 27, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3122 MOR
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1989, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor  and  Real Estate and Hotel Finance
Company  (the  Borrower),   having   been   satisfied  as  to  the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement,  have  requested  the  Bank  to  assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in  various currencies equivalent to seventy-seven
million five hundred thousand  dollars ($77,500,000), on the terms
and conditions  set  forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of  such  loan and to undertake such other
obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of  the  Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule  4  to the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  General  Conditions and in Section
1.02 of the Loan  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of  the  Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of  the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes,  whenever  there  is  reasonable cause to
believe  that  the  funds  available   to  the  Borrower  will  be
inadequate to meet  the  estimated  expenditures  required for the
carrying  out  of  the  Project,  to  promptly  make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank,  to  cause  the  Borrower to be provided
with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of  this Agreement, the Guarantor shall
promptly  take  all  measures  as  shall  be  required (including,
without limitation,  the  review  and,  if  necessary, approval of
proposals by the Borrower to adjust the structure or levels of the
Borrower's interest rates and other financial charges) in order to
enable the Borrower to  comply  with  its obligations set forth in
Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) The  Guarantor  shall at all times maintain
the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme.
     (b)  Further to, and without limitation on, the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall take all action
necessary to ensure that:
          (i)  the balance of all  foreign exchange losses due and
               payable by  the  Guarantor  to  the  Borrower as at
               December 31, 1988, shall be paid to the Borrower in
               accordance  with  a  schedule  satisfactory  to the
               Bank; and
         (ii)  all  foreign  exchange  losses,  other  than  those
Page  3
               referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph,
               payable by the  Guarantor  to the Borrower pursuant
               to the Foreign Exchange  Risk Coverage Scheme shall
               be paid  to  the  Borrower  in  accordance with the
               terms of said Scheme.
     (c)  For purposes of this  Section the term "foreign exchange
losses" means  losses  incurred  by  the  Borrower  resulting from
changes in the  rates  of  exchange  between currencies (including
Dirhams) used in the Borrower's lending and borrowing operations.
     Section 3.03.  The Guarantor  shall take all action necessary
to ensure that:
     (a)  the balance  of  all  amounts  due  and  payable  by the
Guarantor to the Borrower as  at  December 31, 1988, on account of
interest rate subsidies  for  low  cost  housing and other claims,
shall be  paid  to  the  Borrower  in  accordance  with a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)  all amounts other  than  those  referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, which shall  become due and payable from time
to  time  by  the  Guarantor  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the
legislation of the  Guarantor  regulating interest rate subsidies,
shall be paid to the Borrower promptly.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Ministry of Finance
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               MINISTERE FINANCES              31936 M
               Rabat
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Page  4
                     By /s/ A. Benjelloun
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
