                                          Documentof
                                       TheWorldBank
                                 FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                        ReportNo: 31978     -AZ




                 INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                             FORA

              PROPOSEDPOVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORTCREDIT

                         INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR 13.1 MILLION

                             (US$20.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                            TO THE

                                REPUBLICOFAZERBAIJAN




                                         April 19,2005




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementUnit
SouthCaucasusCountryUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region

This document hasa restricted distributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance of
their officialduties.Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

                                       CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                    (Exchange Rate EffectiveApril 2005)
                                            CurrencyUnit =Manat
                                              US$l =4,850 Manat

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                           January 1to December 31

                                       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                               Metric System

                                  ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ACG    Azerbaijan-Chirag-Guneshi                             MED      MinistryofEconomicDevelopment
ADB    Asian DevelopmentBank                                 MEP      Main ExportPipeline
AIOC   AzerbaijanInternationalOperatingCompany               MOF      MinistryofFinance
ANB    AzerbaijanNational Bank                               MOFE     Ministry ofFueland Energy
BEEPS  Business EnvironmentandEnterprisePerformanceSurvey    MOLSPP Ministryof Labor and SocialProtection
BOT    Build-Operate-andTransfer                             MTEF     Medium-TermExpenditureFramework
BTC    Baku-Tbilisi-Cheyhanpipeline                          NBA      National Bank ofAzerbaijan
CAS    CountryAssistance Strategy                            NGO      Non-GovernmentOrganization
CIS    Commonwealthof IndependentStates                      O&M       OperationsandMaintenance
COM    Cabinet of Ministers                                  PAD       ProjectAppraisal Document
CPIA   CountryPerformance IndicatorAssessment                PAR       PovertyAssessment Report
EBRD   EuropeanBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment         PES       Public EmploymentServices
ESMAF' EnergySector ManagementAssistanceProgram              PIP       Public InvestmentProgram
FDI    ForeignDirect Investment                              PPF       ProjectPreparationFacility
FIAS   ForeignInvestmentAdvisory Services                    PPIAF     Public-PrivateInfrastructureAdvisory Facility
FID    ForeignInvestmentDepartment                           PRGF      PovertyReductionGrowthFacility
FSU    Former SovietUnion                                    PRSC      PovertyReductionSupport Credit
GATS   GeneralAgreement on Trade and Services                PRSP      PovertyReductionStrategyPaper
GBWSP  Greater Baku Water SupplyRehabilitationProject        PSA       ProductionSharingAgreement
GDP    GrossDomesticProduct                                  QAG       Quality AssuranceGroup
GFSM   GovernmentFinance Statistics Manual                   RFP       Request for Proposal
HIPC   Heavily IndebtedandPoor Countries                     SAC       StructuralAdjustmentCredit
IAS    InternationalAccountingStandards                      SDR       SpecialDrawing Rights, SDR 1= US$1.5126
IBA    InternationalBankofAzerbaijan                         SME       Small andMediumEnterprise
IBTA   Institution Building TechnicalAssistance              SOCAR     StateOil Companyof AzerbaijanRepublic
IDA    InternationalDevelopmentAssociation                   SOE       State-ownedEnterprise
IDPs   Internally DisplacedPopulations                       SSA       State StatisticalAgency
IFC    InternationalFinanceCorporation                       SSPF      State Social andPensionFund
IF1    InternationalFinanceInstitutions                      TA        Technical Assistance
IMF    InternationalMonetaryFund                             VAT       Value-AddedTax
I-PRSP InterimPovertyReductionStrategyPaper                  VDS       Voluntary DepartureSchemes
LDP    Letterof DevelopmentPolicy                            WTO       World Trade Organization
LPG    Liquid PetroleumGas                                   WUA       Water Users Association



                                Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                             Country Director: DonnaDowsett-Coirolo
                               Sector Director: Cheryl Gray
                            Task TeamLeader: ChristianE. Petersen

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                    REPUBLIC OFAZERBAIJAN

                  PROPOSEDPOVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORTCREDIT


                                           CREDIT SUMMARY

Borrower:        Republic o fAzerbaijan

Amount:          SDR 13.1million (USSZO million equivalent)

Terms:           IDATerms, with 35 yearsmaturity, includinga 10-year graceperiod

Objectives:      The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) for the Republic o f Azerbaijan
                 follows a significant intensification o f the Government's reform efforts over the past
                 several years and is intended to bolster and deepen those efforts. More specifically, the
                 proposed credit aims to enhance the Government's ability to manage Azerbaijan's natural
                 resource boom efficiently, and to stimulate balanced economic growth and job creation,
                 whichare fundamental to poverty reduction. To this end, the proposedPRSC will support
                 selective areas of the Government's reform agenda, as outlined in the PRSP, thereby
                 complementing and reinforcing other Bank Group programs in Azerbaijan, the IMF-
                 supported PRGF and donor activities. Closely aligned with CAS objectives, the PRSC
                 will support:

                 Managing the oil boom.            Azerbaijan is entering a new phase in its economic
                 development, during a period in which the country's foreign exchange inflows will
               > increase rapidly. Prudent budget management policies and strong institutions for effective
                 and efficient public expenditure execution are key to avoid the disappointing experience
                 o f many other countries which have experienced natural resource booms. In managing
                 the oil boom the Government will pursue policies to: (i)         avoid Dutch disease; and (ii)
                 improve efficiency and effectiveness o fpublic resource use.

                 Generating jobs and sustainable non-oil growth. The promotion of more broad-based,
                 inclusive andprivate sector led growthi s the Government's primarypolicy goal to reduce
                 poverty.   To foster non-oil sector growth and job opportunities while maintaining
                 macroeconomic stability, the Government's agenda focuses on the following areas:
                 (i) improving the environment for increasednon-oil trade, private sector development and
                 investment; and (ii)improving financial intermediation and enhancing corporate
                 governance and financial discipline inthe financial and corporate sectors.

                 Improving social services and infrastructure. The Government's program to improve
                 delivery o f utility, infrastructure and social services i s reflected inthe PRSP. The PRSC
                 together with our sector projects would support the implementation in the following
                 areas: (i)improving utility services by developing sound tariff policies, a modem
                 regulatory    framework,       and    enforcing    payment       discipline;  (ii)improving
                 telecommunications       and transport services through restructuring and enhanced
                 competition; (iii)  increasing the quality o f basic and secondary education; (iv) enhancing
                 access to and quality o f primary healthcare services as well as improving financing and
                 allocation o f resources in the health sector; and (v) improving the effectiveness o f
                 pension and social protection programs.

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                                                       11




                 Realizingthe oil and gas potential. SOCAR, the State Oil Company incharge o f oil and
                 gas production and development inAzerbaijan, needsto be a strong and viable enterprise.
                 Its role as an "agent o f the State" should be separated from its commercial functions, and
                 non-core activities divested. The PRSC supports: (i)         improving the financial and
                 organizational structure of SOCAR; and (ii)    addressing environmentalresponsibilities.

                 Outcome monitoring and institutional capacity building.               The PRSC supports
                 strengthening of the poverty monitoring process, statistical capacity building and
                 oversight, and participationby civil society and NGOsinimplementation o f the PRSP.

Benefits:        Benefits are: (i)  improved business environment and investment climate, that directly
                 contribute to stimulating growth and creating jobs, particularly in the non-oil sector;
                 (ii) efficientandeffectiveallocationsinsectorsthathaveamajorfiscalandsocial
                      more
                 impact (i.e., education, rural, health, social protection) and more equitable access to
                 quality public services; (iii)support for anti-corruption efforts through reforms in service
                 delivery, better policy monitoring, and strengthened financial transparency; (iv) increased
                 transparency and accountability o f public finances with improved public expenditure
                 management and strategc allocation o f resources through, medium-term budget
                 planning, as well as strengthened procurement and audit functions.

Risks:           Primary risks to the proposed operation include: (i)the multi-sectoral nature o f this
                 operation will require close cooperation between the line agencies. The President of
                 Azerbaijan's continued direct support and subsequent follow up i s key in this respect.
                 Dovetailing the PRSC with other Bank Group operations that provide detailed support to
                 capacity building helps mitigate this risk;      (ii) volatilityofenergyprices, or an
                                                                     the
                 unexpected delay in the operation o f the BTC pipeline and Shah Deniz gas projects,
                 could seriously affect resource flows and public finances and delay implementation of
                 poverty reduction measures in the PRSP. The PRSC's support to prudent fiscal policy
                  and formulation o f a long-term oil revenue management strategy, and medium-term
                 budget planning mitigate these risks; (iii)politically, the rapidly growing oil wealth
                  exerts strong pressures on the regime to share the wealth more evenly and faster. To
                 mitigate the risko f political upheaval, the Govemment i s aware that itneeds to accelerate
                  structural and political reforms, quell corruption and open up the supply side o f the
                  economy.    Based on the SPPRED and supported by the PRSC, the Govemment i s
                 working in a participatory way to implement these wide-ranging reforms. In terms of
                 national security, the potential for renewed conflict on Nagomo-Karabakh could not be
                  entirely ruled out. The international community, in particular OSCE with the Minsk
                  group, is actively meditating on this issue. The BTC pipeline i s also prone to security
                 risk,asidentifiedandmitigatedthroughthe associatedIFCproject.

Schedule of
Disbursements:    The proposed credit, SDR 13.1 million (US$20 million equivalent) will be disbursed in
                  total upon effectiveness o fthe credit.

Poverty Category: This is a poverty focused operation

Rate of Return:  N/A

Project IDNumber: AZ-PE-PO74938

                                                                 ...
                                                                 111



                                         REPUBLICOF AZERBAIJAN

                       PROPOSEDPOVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT


                                                    Table of Contents



  I.    Introduction.........................................................................................................................  1

  I1. The Economy...................................................................................................................... 4
     A. Development Performance..............................................................................................
     B Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework...................................................................
       .                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                               6

  I11. The ComprehensivePovertyReductionandDevelopment Strategy..................................
       .                                      ..                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                                               9
     B. The Government's Strategy andChallenges to ReducePoverty..................................
     A     Poverty Trends inh e r b a i jan .........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                               10

  IV. TheProgramunder the PovertyReductionSupport Credit..............................................                                         11
     A .
     B. Strategic Goal 1: Managingthe OilBoom ...................................................................
           Objectives .....................................................................................................................    11
                                                                                                                                               13
     C .   Strategic Goal 2: Generating Jobs and Sustainable Non-Oil Growth...........................                                         18
     D. Strategic Goal 3: ImprovingSocial Services andInfrastructure                                        .................................. 21
     E. Strategic Goal4: Realizing Oil andGasPotential........................................................
     F.    Implementing SPPRED: Outcomes, Monitoring and Institutional Capacity Building 30                                                   .27
  V. The ProposedCredit .........................................................................................................              33
     A. Relations to the Country Assistance Strategy...............................................................                            33
     B.                                                                                                                                        37
     C. ImplementationandMonitoring...................................................................................
            Coordination with the IMF and Other Donors..............................................................
                                                                                                                                               37
     D. Credit Administration ...................................................................................................
     E. Environmental Aspects.................................................................................................                 38
                                                                                                                                               39
     F. Poverty and Social Impact Assessment ........................................................................                          40
     G. Benefits andRisks.........................................................................................................             42

Annexes
I.                Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
                  Attachment 1.         Policy FrameworkMatrix
                  Attachment 2          Medium-TermTariffPolicy
I1.               Statement o f IDA Credits an IFC Investments
I11.              Key Economic Indicators
Iv.               Azerbaijan at a GlanceTable
V.                KeyExposure Indicators
VI.               Timetable ofKey Processing Events
VI1.              IMFPublic InformationNotice
VIII.             Map of Republic of Azerbaijan. IBRD 33365

   This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipientsonly inthe performanceof
   their official duties
                       .Itscontents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank authorization                                           .


                                       REPUBLICOFAZERBAIJAN


                        PROPOSEDPOVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT

                                        PROGRAM   DOCUMENT



                                       I. INTRODUCTION


1.     Since the beginning of the 199Os, Azerbaijan has launched a major economic reform
program to establish a market-based system. The country has a sustained record o f
macroeconomic stability. Significant advances in structural policies and public management o f
resources have taken place, especially duringthe last five years. The Government now intends to
build on these achievements to sustain economic growth and to increase employment
opportunities in order to reduce poverty. In doing so, the Government is facing a number o f
economic issues, which it needs to address inorder to complete its structural reforms andpoverty
reduction agenda. For this purpose, the Government has consulted with IDA and has requested
assistance.

2.     The Government together with civil society partners has put considerable effort into
producing the PRSP called the State Program for Poverty Reduction and Economic Development
(SPPRED).    The SPPRED is a comprehensive program, through which the Government is
addressing poverty through a participatory process. The Joint Staff Assessment (JSA), presented
to the Board in May 2003, concluded that the SPPRED presents a credible poverty reduction
strategy and provides a sound basis for Bank and Fund concessional assistance. The first
SPPRED progress report was prepared inM a y 2004, and the JSA confirms the soundness o f the
SPPRED strategy for continued concessional assistance by the Bank andthe Fund. The proposed
SDR 13.1 million (US$20 million equivalent) Credit would assist the Government to develop
andimplementpolicyreforms that are supportive o fthe SPPREDprograms.

3.      This operation is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report
No.2579-AZ) for Azerbaijan and follows up on reforms supported by the second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC-11) and the accompanying second Institution Building Technical
Assistance project (IBTA-11), approved by the Board in FY03. SAC-I1 put in place the
foundations for some o fthe key institutional reforms inthe public sector. The PRSC deepens the
reform agenda supported by SAC-I1 and emphasizes new reforms aimed at broadening the
impact o f growth on reducing poverty. It has been designed to focus on the institutional and
govemance reform agenda while paying increased attention to reforms in the non-oil and social
sectors, which were initially supported by SAC-11. The proposed operation is aligned with
SPPRED, the main elements o f which aim at increasing economic opportunities and jobs,
increasing accountability in the public sector, and making development more inclusive. These
areas also constitute the core o f the PRSC supportedprograms.

4.      Implementation o f the reform agenda associated with SAC-I1 started inearly 2001. Since
then the overall Country Policy and Institutional Assessment indicators has increased very

                                                  2


substantially. Macroeconomic management has sustained a perfect score throughout the period.
Governance was a major focus o f SAC-I1 and still is in the proposed PRSC.              The CPIA
governance ratings have improved remarkably after our dialogue with the Government
intensified.   The outcome o f SAC-I1 is further documented on pp. 35-36 below.                The
Implementation Completion Report (Report No. 29422-AZ) rated SAC-I1 outcomes as
satisfactory, sustainability likely, and institutional development impact as substantial (OED
confirmed these conclusions). The continuation o f this fruitful dialogue between all levels o f the
Government combined with a well-coordinated Bank country team will be o f even greater
importance once the oil boom starts for real in2005.

5.       Why lend to a potentially oil-rich economy. The successful completion o f SAC-I1
clearly demonstrates the effectiveness o f our involvement in helping the Government to
formulate a coherent and coordinated reform program with strong support and ownership.
Supported by SAC-11, the fiduciary framework o f the State Oil Fund o f Republic o f Azerbaijan
(SOFAZ) was formulated and enacted, the Budget Systems Law was approved, the medium-term
expenditure framework (MTEF) and the public investment program (PIP) were established, and
important reforms across the utility sectors started.

6.       During the Operations Committee reviews o f SAC-I1 and the proposed PRSC, the
appropriateness o f adjustment lending to a country with its own oil resources accumulated in an
oil fund was discussed at length. It was concluded that adjustment operations are important in
the case o f Azerbaijan andthat the World Bank can play a critical role inreducingpoverty inthat
country not only in terms o f income poverty, but also in terms o f non-income dimensions o f
poverty such as better access to basic infrastructure, education and health services, clean water
andsanitation. The CAS approvedbymanagement inApril 2003 schedules the PRSC sequence.
While money may have little leverage, our policy-based operations have proved to be effective
in building consensus and in pushing the reform agenda forward. They have also provided a
more flexible approach to our policy dialogue with the Government. Infact, the proposed PRSC
is to a large extent demand-driven by the Government agencies and other stakeholders across the
spectrum covered by the CAS. It serves an important hnction inthe policy formulation process,
which is crucial to assure the quality o f reform measures and to obtain consensus and ownership
 across the highest levels o f Government.

 7.      Experience in Azerbaijan shows that technical assistance (TA), such as the Second
Institution Buildingand Technical Assistance project (IBTA-2) can play an important supporting
role for reform, but cannot fulfill or substitute the functions o f the adjustment instruments. In
this respect the PRSC also paves the way at the economic policy level for the sector projects o f
the CAS, and brings additionality that contributes to their sustainability.      It addresses key
bottlenecks in promoting non-oil sectors, which are critical to employment generation and
poverty reduction. The leverage of the PRSC stems from the intense dialogue and coherence that
 a policy-based instrument creates among the Government and the Country Team, and helps to
 allocate budgetary resources for the sustainable implementation o f sector reforms.

 8.      Azerbaijan has experienced significant developments on the domestic political front, over
 the course of the past few years, including an emerging civil society, a growing network o f
 NGOs, and the evolution o f a multi-party structure. InOctober 2003, Mr. IlhamAliyev, the son

                                                 3


o f former President Heydar Aliyev, was elected as President. The new President has followed
aspirations o f the former President, and is keen to pursue rigorously the development objectives
set for the country. H e has reinstated the key reformers in their positions and has shown strong
interest in continuing structural reforms and in supporting the poverty reduction programs
identified by the SPPRED and PRSC. His actions have contributed to widening o f support for
reform inthe country.

9.      The Program Document discusses Azerbaijan's recent economic performance and its
prospects. It then elaborates the objectives and policy measures included in the Government's
poverty reduction program and actions to be supported by the PRSC. Finally, the Document
presents an overview of the rationale, arrangements, benefits, and risks o f the proposed
operation.

                                                        4




                                           11.      THEECONOMY

A.                DevelopmentPerformance

10.      Duringthe early to mid-l990s, Azerbaijan's economy suffered a dramatic output collapse
with a cumulative real GDP drop o f about 60 percent, accompanied by hyperinflation, sharp
currency depreciation and rapidly depleting foreign exchange reserves. These difficult initial
conditions largely reflected the collapse o f the Soviet Union and related trade and transport links,
sharp negative terms-of-trade shocks as suppliers moved to market pricing, the military conflict
over the Nagorno-Karabakh region, and resulted in unsustainable fiscal deficits financed by
money creation. Azerbaijan undertook significant structural reforms inthe 1990s. Privatization
of small businesses, collective farms, and land were largely completed and the legal framework
for privatization o f large enterprises was launched with clear rules and regulations. The legal
basis for a market economy was largely established and the public sector underwent substantial
reforms, including reform of the central bank, restructuring o f Government ministries, and
establishment o fthe Treasury.

11.      The Azerbaijan economy grew on average by more than 8 percent a year during 1996-
2003. In2004, growth was estimated at 10.2 percent, reflecting significant investments inthe oil
and gas sectors, combined with sound economic performance in the other sectors.' Azerbaijan
has also been successful in maintainingmacroeconomic stability, notwithstanding the sizeable
foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows peaking at 36 percent o f GDP in 2004. Sterilization o f
oil receipts (see below) together with prudent fiscal policies has succeeded in preventing
sustained real exchange rate appreciation since 1995.2The country's oil strategy, whichrelies on
Production Sharing Agreements to attract FDI, has contributed to this macroeconomic stability.
As a result, Azerbaijan has been the fastest growing country inthe CIS, with one o f the highest
levels o fFDIper capita since 1995.

12.      Inthe 1990s, Azerbaijan was runninglarge current account deficits financed by capital
account surpluses resulting from strong FDI inflows and official lending. During 1995-2004,
cumulative net FDIinflows amounted to more than US$lO billion mainly inthe energy sector. In
2001, the current account deficit dropped to below 1.0 percent o f GDP as oil exports doubled in
dollar terms. By 2003 and 2004, however, the current account deficit increased significantly to
28.3 percent and 30.4 percent o f GDP respectively, due to high oil sector imports related to the
construction o f the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) main export pipeline and upstream oil platform
development.



'For detailed analysis o f recent developments inthe Azerbaijan economy see "Integrated Non-Oil Tradeand
Investment Strategy (INOTIS) World Bank November 2003, and the "Public Expenditure Review" World Bank,
December 2002
'Monetary   policies were adjusted inlate 1997 - when strong inflows were not fully sterilized - and again following
the Russian crisis - when policies were eased and the nominal exchange rate was allowed to depreciate. By end-
 1999, the real effective exchange rate was about the same level as at the end o f 1994, and has since depreciated by
about 30 percent.

                                                           5


13.       On the fiscal front, the first half o f 1990s witnessed double-digit fiscal deficits financed
bymoney creation. Since 1995 the fiscal stance has been considerably strengthened, as revenues
have grown and the deficit has declined. Fiscal adjustment required expenditure cuts, which
among other things, resulted in lower allocations for social sector pen ding.^ During 1998-2004,
the consolidated government deficit, excluding the Oil Fund declined from 3.9 percent to 0.9
percent o f GDP.4This i s consistent with the Government's cautious intention in spending oil
revenues while the institutions for managing and spending that wealth are being developed.

Table 1:Macroeconomic Indicators, 1999-2004
(annual percent changes, unless otherwiseindicated)
                                                             19991      20001         20011        20021           20031   2004*]
Real GDP growth                                               7.9        10.3           9.6                9.7      11.2     10.1
Real Non-Oil GDP growth                                       2.1        13.7          10.4             12.3        15.5     13.4
Consumer price index (end-period)                            -0.5         2.2           1.3                3.3       3.6     10.4
Current account deficit (%GDP)                              -13.1        -3.6          -0.9        -12.3           -28.3    -30.4
Net Foreign Direct Investment($mln)                          510         149            299        1,048           2,353    3,048
Real effective exchange rate (- deprec.)                     -1.71       -9.81         -6.11             -8.31     -11.31    -0.4
Consolidated fiscal deficit (%GDP)                                       -0.61                                                0.6
                                                     I       -4.71I           I         -0.41I             -0.51I   -1.21I
Consolidated fiscal deficit, excluding the Oil Fund  I       -4.71       -3.41          -1.41              -3.61     -2.91    -0.9

          ated Revenues (%GDP)                               18.5)       21.21         18.71            22.01       21.71    22.8
                                                                                                  ~    ~~~~


Gross fixed investment (%GDP)                                28.5        23.1          22.9             34.1        50.8     63.2
External debt outstanding (%GDP)                             22.8        24.1          22.2             23.8        23.5     18.1
External debt service ratio (including IMF)**                 6.2         8.4            5.3                5.9       7.5      3.8




 14.      Perhaps the most significant development in the fiscal area in recent years has been the
establishment o f the State Oil Fund (SOFAZ, see Box 1). The Government i s committed to
exercise considerable caution over the use o f the expected oil and gas windfall andto ensure that
the benefits resulting from the exploitation ofthis natural asset would accrue to all citizens andto
fiture generations. This cautious approach is even more essential, given the need to implement
the SPPRED, and accordingly to put in place an integrated MTEF and PIP. The MTEF process
would provide the line ministries with greater responsibility for decisions on resource allocation
and resource use. By using the MTEFprocess the Government will: (i)                         develop a consistent and
more realistic resource framework; (ii) the allocation o f resources to strategic priorities;
                                                  improve


  Public expenditures both o n education and healthcare declined inreal terms during the period o f 1998 to 2004 both
as a share o f GDP, and as a share o f total consolidated expenditures. As such, real education expenditures declined
from4.4 percent of GDP(14.0 percent of total expenditures) in 1998to 3.7 percent o f GDP (13.8 percent o ftotal
 expenditures) in2004, while the public health expenditures inreal terms declined from 1.2 percent o f GDP (3.8
percent o f total expenditures) in 1998 to 0.9 percent o f GDP (3.5 percent o f total expenditures) in 2004. On the other
hand, real expenditures on social security and social assistance intotal expenditures remainedrelatively less volatile
 duringthe same period. The 2005 Budget is bringinghealth andeducation expenditures back up.
4 Consolidated government deficit excluding the Oil Fundis calculated by deducting the revenues and expenditures
 o f the Oil Fundfrom the consolidated government budget balance.

                                                              6


and (iii)    provide line agencies with increased autonomy and hard budget constraint, thereby
increasing incentives for efficient and effective use o f the funds.

B.       Medium-TermMacroeconomicFramework

15.      Economic Outlook. Economic prospects in the medium term hinges heavily on the
developments inthe oil and gas sectors. During2005-2007 GDP growth is projected to average
around 19 percent a year, in view o f the continued rapid growth in the oil and non-oil sectors.
The growth rate i s projected to decline somewhat during the end o f the decade, with non-oil
manufacturing and agriculture sectors growing on average 5 - 6 percent a year. The
macroeconomic program also aims at stabilizing the annual inflation rate at 5 - 7 percent,
maintaining a sufficient level o f foreign exchange reserves, and continuing progress on fiscal
consolidation. Prudent fiscal policy will not only be essential for maintaining macroeconomic
stability and efficient management o f oil revenues, but also to accommodate essential structural
reforms.


Table 2: MacroeconomicFramework,2005-2009
(annual percent changes, unless otherwiseindicated)



\RealGDP growth                                                 14.81        20.51        22.4)        16.21          8.31
lRealNon-Oil GDP growth                                         10.31          8.01        7.51         7.0)          6.51
\Current account deficit (%GDP)                                -11.81          3.11       27.91        41.81         43.71
[Net Foreign Direct Investment($mln)                           1,4301         3791      -2,8881      -1,1991          2871
IConsolidated fiscal deficit (%GDP)                    IIIII     1.4)          2.01        9.81        34.61         41.91
 Consolidated fiscal deficit, excluding the Oil Fund            -1.6          -3.2         -3.9         -3.O          -3.8
 (%GDP)
 Consolidated Revenues(%GDP)                                    24.0         23.0         28.5         51.7          58.6

 Gross fixed investment (%GDP)                                  41.0         33.8          19.7         14.2          13.4

 Extemal debt outstanding (%GDP)                                14.9         11.8           9.4          8.1           7.9
 Extemal debt service ratio (including IMF)*                     2.8           1.6          0.9          0.7           0.5

 Source: State Statistics Committee; staff estimates.

 16.      Managing the Transition to a Resource Rich Economy. Given the size o f its proven oil
 and gas reserves, Azerbaijan is poised to become a resource rich economy duringthe second half
 o f this decade. The realization o f this potential, however, depends on the development and
 implementation o f four major project^.^ These and other energy sector projects are estimated to
 have resulted in over US$8 billion in investments during the period o f 2002-2004, which is to
 contribute to rapid growth o f energy sector output and exports. This investment has a large
 import component. Part o f the investment, however, is domestically produced, with a positive
 effect on construction, transport and service sectors. Basedon these investment assumptions, an


   These include: full development of the Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli oil field; the construction o f the BTC pipeline to transport oil
 from this field to the Mediterranean; the development of the Shah Deniz gas field; and South Caucasus gas pipeline (SCP) from
 Baku to Turkey parallelto thenew oil pipeline.

                                                            7




Supervision and Control
9 The three level management structure consists of the President, SOFAZ's Executive Director, and
    Supervisory Board. Members of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Director are appointed by the
    President.
9 The Board consists ofkey government officials (Prime Minister, ministers), two parliamentary members
    (nominated by the Speaker), and academia. It is entrusted with the functions o f internal supervision to
    oversee the composition o f the Oil Fund's assets and compliance with the expenditure rules.
Investment Strategy and OperationalManagement of Assets
9 The investment strategy is annually approved by the President based on recommendations of the
    Executive Director, taking into account recommendations o fthe Supervisory Board.
9 Operationalmanagement is delegatedtothe Executive Director, who chairs the InvestmentBoard
    (internal structure o f the Fund).
9 Professionalportfoliomanagersmaybecontractedfor acertainportionofthe Fund'sassets.
9 Investment portfolio guidelines determine currency composition, the balance between liquid(up to 40
    percent o f the portfolio) and long-term investments, and fixed and equity income instruments. Preference
    i s given to fixed income instruments, while equity income instruments (corporate securities and stakes)
    are banned unless a highly reputable professional investment manager is hired to handle them.
Transparency,Accountability, and External Oversight
9 A highlyreputable international auditor is selected to conduct anannualaudit ofthe OilFund's accounts.
    The results from the annual report on the use o fthe funds andthe external audit report are publishedinthe
    mass media. Pursuant to the Azeri laws, the Chamber o f Accounts (the country's Supreme Audit Institute)
    may also audit the Fund.
9 Quarterly reportsproducedbythe Executive Director shallbe submittedto the Supervisory Boardandthe
>   President.
    The annual report is prepared in coordination with the MOF. After recommendations o f the Supervisory
    Board are incorporated, it shall be submitted to the President. The annual report is posted on the official
    website o f SOFAZ.
Governanceof Revenueaxpenditure Rules
 9 While the ultimate decision-making rests with the President, OilFundexpenditures (other than its own
    operating expenses) are consolidated with the state budget with the monies allocated to the budget and
    used for purposes that are consistent with public investment program.
 9 Accordingto the 2002 Budget Systems Law, andthe 2003 amendments to the Law Parliament has the
     authority to set the expenditure and deficit ceilings for the OilFund.
 9 Allinvestmentexpenditures aretobeexecutedthrough theTreasury.
 9 Useofthe funds is subject to the StateProcurementLaw, whichgoverns allbudgetary expenditures.
 9 Investments shouldbemade inprojects ofnational importance; project investmentshave to bepart ofthe
     governmental PIP and MTEFand consistent withthe SPPRED.
 'AnnualReport2001,State       OilFundo fthe Republic o fAzerbaijan, and www.oi1fund.z.



 average oil sector growth rate o f 60 percent is projected during 2005-2007.6 Beyond 2007, oil
 sector growth will gradually slow down and start decliningover the mediumto longer term.

 17.      Conservative estimates put Azerbaijan's proven oil reserves to 900 million tons in2000.
 However, the estimates suggest that without major new oil discoveries and, given the current
production schedule, oil production will peak at about 59 million tons in 2010, followed by a
relatively short plateau of peak production and thereafter decline rapidly from 2012 to less than


  This figure does not represent resources available to the domestic economy, and needs to be adjusted by
 subtracting profit and capital repatriation from GDP.

                                                          8


half its peak level in2018 and to about 16 percent o f its peak level in 2024 when oil resources
are expectedto be depleted.

18.      Azerbaijan economy is vulnerable to the movement in oil prices and long term growth
prospects may be adversely affected ifprudentpolicies are not pursued. The economy i s facing
a dual macroeconomic challenge: to maintain macroeconomic and monetary stability while
strengthening competitiveness o f the non-oil sector; and to complete the transition agenda o f
structural reform, which may see some traditional activities disappear or stabilize at much lower
levels o f output and employment. Nevertheless, Azerbaijan i s today an example o f how good
macroeconomic managementhas avoidedDutch disease and the so-called "resource curse."

19.      The role of the Oil Fundwill be a crucial factor inmanaging the hump-shaped oil boom
inthe future. The Fundprovides a financial mechanism for separating commercial decisions on
oil extraction from public spending decisions. It also allows the Government to maintain a
degree of continuity in fiscal programs, especially with regard to the implementation o f
committed investment projects and programs. Moreover, it aims at greater transparency in the
use o f oil revenues and preventingadverse effects o f excessively rapid transfer o f oil revenues
into the domestic economy. Given the hump-shaped profile, prudent management of the oil
windfall in Azerbaijan requires development o f a long-run oil revenue management strategy,
which is necessary to avoid large and destabilizing oil related inflows. The Government
completed this strategy, supported by IMF andIDA, in2004.

20.      External Financing Flows. During the next couple of years the saving-investment
deficit i s expected to decline significantly due to completion o f the sizeable investmentsin the
oil and gas sectors. Azerbaijan's investment ratio i s projected to gradually decline from more
than 60 percent of GDP in2004 to 20 percent in2007 before droppingfurther inthe subsequent
years. The highimport content of this oil-related investment, combined with the slowdown inthe
oil sector growth, due to capacity constraints, brought the current account deficit from 30percent
of GDP in2004. This deficit hasbeen financed from foreign direct investment o f oil companies.
In2005 the current account is projected at a deficit lessthan 12percent of GDP, before moving
into considerable ~urpluses.~Upward pressure on the exchange rate will be mitigated by the
accumulation o f oil revenues inthe Oil Fund, and the real effective exchange rate is projected to
remain reasonably stable.

21.      With arrival o f the oil boom Azerbaijan's external position is expected to remain strong
during the next decade, as the resource balance would turn sharply from negative to positive.
However, a significant share o f oil and gas revenues will leave Azerbaijan in the form o f oil
companies' profit and capital repatriation. The authorities are well aware o fthe opportunities and
risks associated with the oil boom and so far have managed to avoid the pitfalls to achieve future
 success. They also realize that successful development o f the oil sector alone i s not enough to
 ensure rising income andjobs for most o f the population.



 'These estimates are based on the WE0 oil price of US42.8 per barrel in 2005. The impact o f lowerhigher oil prices on
 the balance o fpayments, would, to a large extent be offset by a reducedincreased profit and investment repatriation
 bythe international oil companies.

                                                       9


Azerbaijan's external debt is expected to remain sustainable during this decade, with long
maturity and low interest rates. The country's external debt ratio is relatively moderate at about
18 percent of GDP at end-2004, with debt service obligations about 3.8 percent of exports of
goods and services. Both ratios are expected to hrther decline during the second half of the
decade. Azerbaijan became IBRD eligible in 2003. With public debt/GDP ratio declining and
with the primarybudget deficit falling, the fiscal policy will remain sustainable in the medium
term.


     111.     THECOMPREHENSIVEPOVERTYREDUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT                          STRATEGY


A.      Poverty Trends in Azerbaijan

22.     Despite the recent high rates of growth, poverty in Azerbaijan remains widespread.
According to the SPPRED, the overall poverty incidence in 2001 (based on the 2001 Household
Budget Survey, HBS) was estimated at nearly 50 percent, while the extreme poverty rate was
estimated at over 17 percent. The 2002 H B S estimates the overall poverty at 46.7 percent andthe
extreme poverty incidence at 8.8 percent. Because of the changes made inthe questionnaire, the
2001 and 2002 HBS data sets are not comparable. Likewise, the poverty line estimate was raised
from $24 per month in2001 to a more reasonable $35 in 2002. The Government is using the
2002 poverty measurement results as a baseline for SPPRED implementation monitoring.

23.      The H B S data show poverty falling to 44.7 is 2003 percent and 42.5 percent in 2004.
The incidence of poverty is slightly higher among urban households relative to rural, and is
associated with falling employment opportunities and earnings inthe formal economy. Although
Baku has the largest absolute number o f urban poor, the poverty incidence i s highest in
provincial towns. Rural areas and small towns suffer from unreliable supplies of energy and gas,
inadequate infrastructure, and weak access to basic health and education services.                  This
contributes to intense rural-urban migration.          Lack of reliable electricity supply i s one of the
major factors discouraging investment inthe regions outside Baku. Concentration of activities in
the oil and gas sector and the development of related services and infrastructure in and around
Bakuadd to the increase inthe regional differences inliving standards. Also, unemployment and
underemployment remain high, particularly among women. Children up to 15 years of age face
the highest poverty risk. The poverty risk decreases with the education level of the household
head. Particularly vulnerable are households with 3 or more children.

24.      Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) of the Nagorno Karabakh conflict, who lack assets
and depend heavily on state transfers, are particularly vulnerable andneed to be integrated inthe
Azeri society.     The conflict resulted in nearly 209,000 officially registered refugees from
Armenia and about 576,000 officially registered IDPs. This segment o f the population constitutes
one o f the poorest and most vulnerable sections of the society. All the rehgees and IDPs have
been resettled by the Government in various parts of the country. However, a majority continue
to live in temporary shelters. The Government has made efforts to resettle those IDPs living in
 extremely poor conditions to new settlements financed through the Oil Fund ($47 million in
 2004).*

  These include Fizuli (lO,OOO),Bilusavar (10,000) and Geranboy (2,000).

                                                 10




B.      The Government'sStrategyandChallengesto ReducePoverty

25.     To address poverty, the Government has committed to a comprehensive program through
a balanced approach to economic reform as outlined inthe SPPRED, which was approved by the
President o f Azerbaijan inFebruary 2003. The SPPRED was prepared with significant input and
participation by a broad range o f civil society and key stakeholders through 15 Sector Working
Groups. Regional Town Hall meetings were organized to identify priorities for poverty
reduction. The Secretariat at the Ministry o f Economic Development has coordinated this work
during the preparation and implementation phases. The SPPRED identifies six key strategic
goals to reduce poverty and to increase the standard o f living o f the population: (i)
                                                                                      creating an
enabling environment for growth o f income-generating opportunities;             (ii)maintaining
macroeconomic stability; (iii)improving quality and access to basic health and education
services; (iv) improving infrastructure; (v) reforming the system o f social protection; and (vi)
improving the living conditions o f IDPs. The first SPPRED Progress Report and its assessment
was presented to the Board inSeptember 2004.

26.     As stated in the Joint Staff Assessment (JSA), the SPPRED presents a credible poverty
reduction strategy and its broad policy priorities are appropriate and consistent with the multi-
dimensional nature o f poverty reduction and reflect the need for balanced growth by developing
the non-oil sector and reducing differences in development between Baku and the rest o f the
country.    The JSA also refers to areas where further progress i s needed during the
implementation o f SPPRED, including better prioritization and sequencing o f measures, better
links with annual budgets and poverty diagnosis, and further efforts to improve data collection
for the monitoring o f living standards. These areas have since been strengthened.

27.      The SPPRED recognizes the role o f the private sector as crucial to sustain development
andcommits to its continued expansionthrough various policy measures. Energyreform is at the
top o f the SPPRED agenda as the lack o f reliable energy supplies is considered a major problem
inattracting investment and creating employment opportunities inthe regions outside Baku. In
addition, the high rate of energy subsidies is a large burden on the budget, thus limiting the
government's ability to spend more on social sectors. The SPPRED emphasizes improved
management o f utility supplies through transferring the management o f electricity and gas
supplies to the private sector. Restructuring o f SOCAR, and other energy enterprises are
identified as critical for achieving this objective. The SPPRED also envisages broad structural
change to increase accountability in public service delivery, and to strengthen the financial
sector, as well as improving the public expenditure management process. Although the program
does not provide medium-term targets for poverty reduction, it sets out a framework for
monitoringthe poverty indicators and its implementation progress.

28.      The Presidential Decree o f November 24, 2003, reaffirms the commitment of the
Government to structural reforms and poverty reduction and identifies a set o f policy actions to
be implemented in support o f further economic and social development. The Decree gave
important assignments to line ministries to develop detailed action plans for accelerating reforms
ina number of key structural areas. Inparticular, the Decree emphasizes non-oil private sector
development and employment opportunities, balanced regional development, investments

                                                 11


promotion, improvement in energy supplies, reform o f the social insurance system, assistance to
IDPs, rural development, administrative reform, and improved financial discipline o f the state-
owned enterprises. A list o f policy actions identified by the Decree is included in the enclosed
Letter o f Development Policy and is discussed insome detail inthe following sections.

29.     While strongly committed to the SPPRED objectives, the Government i s aware o f the
difficult implementation issues that it will need to overcome.        Poor governance and weak
implementation capacities remain bottlenecks inAzerbaijan and would negatively affect service
delivery and effective implementation o f structural reform programs. Weaknesses in public
expenditure management andbasic budget support systems complicate the task o f line ministries
in designing and implementing expenditure priorities. Improving budget formulation and
execution and establishing accountability mechanisms, including audit and procurement are
needed to improve the effectiveness o f public expenditures inreducing poverty. Contributing to
weak expenditure management is education, health and social protection services that are o f low
quality and makeit difficult to target public resources to the neediest segment o f the population.

30.     Substantial progress in removing these weaknesses is needed to consolidate and deepen
the ongoing structural reforms andput the poverty reduction agenda at the center o f the decision
makingprocess. As is discussed below, the Government program supported under the proposed
PRSC would addressmany o f these weaknesses.

           Iv. THEPROGRAMUNDERTHE               POVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT


A.      Objectives

31.     The objective o f the proposed PRSC i s to support the Government's policies and
structural reforms that are consistent with and supportive o f the poverty reduction and economic
strategy as highlighted inthe SPPRED. The Credit is structured around the four Strategic Goals
o f the CAS andmonitoring o f these, reflecting the Government's reform priorities:

   1. Managingthe oil boom to maintain macroeconomic stability, avoid "Dutch disease" and
       facilitate non-oil growth, employment andpro-poor expenditures;
   2. Generatingjobs and sustainablenon-oil growth by improvingthe business environment
       andthe accessto financial services, buildingSME support infrastructure, andstimulating
       agriculture;
   3. Improving access to services and infrastructure by reversing the decline insocial services
       andassistance andininfrastructure;
   4. Realizing the oil and gaspotential to the extent andinthe time frame that SPPRED
       presumes;
   5 . Implementing the SPPRED: monitoring outcomesand institutional capacity building,
       ensuringthe sustainability o f the reforms remains inthe forefront.
 32.     These components aim to increase the effectiveness o f the Government strategy for
poverty reduction. They underscore the fundamental importance that the Government is giving to
balanced growth, which calls for increased investment in the non-oil sector to ensure that the

                                                    12


benefits o f growth interms o f risingincome andjob creation is widely shared particularly among
the urban poor, which constitute a larger share o f poverty. They address critical weaknesses in
the public sector and institutional capacities that could undermine the successful implementation
o f the SPPRED. The alignment with the CAS serves to focus the PRSC and our sector projects
within a coherent reinforcing framework, inwhich the PRSC paves the way at the political level,
while sector projects support medium-term capacity building. At the same time, while many
ongoing CAS activities are progressing well, the PRSC is focused on the areas that require
associated political decisions.

33.     The reforms supported by the PRSC reflect the poverty diagnostic inAzerbaijan, which
like inother Caucasus countries, suffered from the Soviet style economy and industry, with poor
business environment and infrastructure and with high poverty outside the capital city. The
PRSC measures are designed to help Azerbaijan deal with many o f these issues while pursuing
the goals outlined under the SPPRED. They address key impediments for promoting non-oil
sectors and would ensure prudent management o f oil revenues, which i s critical for sustaining
soundmacroeconomic management.

34.     The PRSC supported reforms are expected to help Azerbaijan achieve the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) on poverty, education, health, water supply, and sanitation. In
particular, the outlook for meeting MDG targets on poverty is quite favorable. Azerbaijan i s
expected to reduce absolute poverty from 49.6 percent in 2001 to 34.2 percent in 2006 and 24.8
percent in 2015.9 It would, however, take some time before policies and institutional
requirements could be established in order to significantly accelerate progress towards the
MDGs.

35.     The PRSC draws directly from the SPPRED and the President's Decree o f November 24,
2003, which supports and reinforces implementation o f the SPPRED measures. Since the scope
o f the SPPRED is broad, the PRSC is broad, but has been selective in identifying areas that
require a series o f systemic reforms to impact growth and poverty. The PRSC does not aim to
cover all areas that have been identified inthe CAS. For example, agriculture is being supported
through a number o f ongoing and proposed projects. Likewise, environmental objectives are
being supported by other interventions. Improvements in financial services are supported under
the the new Financial Services Development Project. Similarly, the Education APL, Health
Reform LILYand Pension and Social Assistance Project complements measures supported by the
PRSC in the social sectors, and the Rural Infrastructure Project complements regional
development.

36.     The Credit will be in the form o f general budgetary support. The objective i s to
synchronize its timing, to the extent possible, with that o f the budget cycle. This would largely
be achieved within the framework o f the MTEF process. This process would help the
Government to better allocate budgetary expenditures to priority needs identified by SPPRED,
within an overall resource envelope, which includes the PRSC as well as sector project
resources. This alignment will also include donor support, particularly those providing multi-


9 Based on 2001povertyestimates. Detailedcalculations are presentedin "Azerbaijan: Meeting the MDG
Challenge," internal memorandum, March 2004.

                                                           13


sectoral programs. The MTEF process would allow donors to review the priority programs and
to coordinate their commitment within that framework.

37.      Policy Framework Matrix.               The policy measures to be supported under PRSC-I,
PRSC-11, and PRSC-I11 are reflected inthe three-year Policy Framework Matrix attached to this
document. This matrix has been developed after intensive consultation with the Government as
well as other IFIs and donors. Feedback has also been sought from civil society organizations at
various stages o f the preparation process. The proposed measures for PRSC-I1and PRSC-I11 are
indicative o f the direction o f reform, and would be further defined along this reform path. The
core measures and prior actions for Board presentation o f PRSC-I are presented in Table 3
below. The attached Letter o f Development Policy describes the Government's development and
poverty reduction strategy as re-enforced by the Decree o f November 2003, and elaborates the
detail o fthe measures within a three-year policy framework supported bythe proposedPRSC.


B.       Strategic Goal 1: Managingthe OilBoom

Major Issues

38.       The promotion o f equitable and sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction
requires strong public sector institutions that are accessible to all and operate in a transparent,
accountable and efficient fashion. These are the key medium-term objectives o f the Government
program on public sector reforms i r h e r b a i j a n , and the first strategic goal o f the CAS."
Weaknesses in basic public service delivery, stemming from various governance problems and
institutional capacity constraints, are among the major impediments to poverty reduction in
Azerbaijan.       While macroeconomic management has been exemplary since 1995 and Dutch
disease has been avoided, maintaining macroeconomic stability during the current investment
boom and the imminent oil boom will not be an easy task." It requires sound macroeconomic
policies and efficient and transparent budgeting and fiduciary arrangement starting with the State
 consolidated budget and SOFAZ.

 39.      Public Expenditure Management. Public expenditure management takes a central place
 among the core institutional capacities that needs to be strengthened so that the Government's
 programs o fpoverty reduction, as elaborated inthe SPPRED, can be effectively implemented. In
 Azerbaijan, reforms in public expenditure management have so far contributed to achieving
 macroeconomic stability and to strengthening the legal framework of the budget system.
 However, the Government needs to complement these reforms by addressing a number o f
 overarching issues to ensure sustainability and integrity o fpublic expenditure inthe future.

 40.       To ensure aggregate fiscal discipline, the Government would need to cope with the
 challenge o f proper management o f oil wealth to avoid undesirable macro-imbalances. Any


 I OSee CAS, op. cit., p. 14.
 `I The potential negative effects o fan inadequately managed naturalresource boomare often referredto as Dutch
 disease. They include: (i)  macroeconomic adjustment problems stemming from large foreign exchange inflows; (ii)
 unbalanced growth, leading to crowding out o fthe non-petroleumtraded goods sector; (iii) o fpetroleum
                                                                                              waste
 wealth throughunproductivepublic expenditures; and (iv) insome cases accumulationof externaldebt as theresourceboom
 increases the capacityto borrow.

                                                          14


decision on the use o f oil revenues should be made consistent with the overall macroeconomic
framework. The objective of SOFAZ i s to manage efficiently the oil and gas related revenues
for the benefit o f the future generations. Public expenditure decisions, the real exchange rate and
growth in the non-oil sector are all intimately linked with this Fund and a conservative asset
management and expenditure policyhas ensured a steady growth o f savings by this

41.       To improve allocative efficiency, the Government has embarked on reforming the budget
management process. For most o f the 1990s, line ministries received little guidance on spending
priorities and on calculation o f expenditure requests. Budget execution was also deficient with
large variations between planned and actual expenditures. One o f the most important reform
efforts to improve allocative efficiency has been the approval o f the new Budget Systems Law
(BSL) in 2002 and its amendments in 2003.13 The new Law addresses many o f the deficiencies
o f the past, including the incorporation o f off-budget expenditures, as well as monitoring and
reporting requirements.

42.       The B S L requires that: (i)     parliament approve the deficit and expenditure ceilings o f the
consolidated budget including Oil Fund expenditure; (ii) expenditures in the consolidated
                                                                         all
budget (except for expenditures on the management o f SOFAZ and its assets) be executed by the
treasury, and that all capital expenditures be part o f the PIP; (iii)               Ministry o f Finance to be
responsible for the preparation o f the consolidated budget; (iv) that extra-budgetary funds not
make portfolio investments in domestic commercial activities or issue loans or loan guarantees;
and (v) SOFAZ hold equity positions only through highly rated professionalportfolio managers
ininternational markets. Thenew Law clearly delineates the core responsibilitiesofthe Treasury
and involves the line ministries indetermining strategic priorities. However, line ministries need
to strengthen their capacity to be able to implement the new budget preparation process
effectively.

43.       The new B S L introduces multi-year budgeting through the preparation o f a MTEF to
provide the necessary link with the SPPRED and the public investment program PIP. Both the
MTEF and the PIP are to be submitted to Parliament. The law ensures that the budget provides
more details on expenditure allocations and i s much more explicit indefining the responsibilities
and accountabilities of spending units inthe implementationo fthe budget.

44.       The improvements in the budget system have been further enhanced by the introduction
o f a single Treasury account and the inclusion o f all previously extra-budgetary operations o f

'*Asset  management regulations require that financial assets mustbe kept offshore at highlyrated banks. The fund
i s not permitted to extend credits to private or state organizations and assets cannot be used as a guarantee against
any obligation.    In order to reduce political pressures to spend windfall oil revenues rapidly, the government
established the oil fund under direct presidential control. The President o f Azerbaijan appoints members of the
SOFAZ's supervisory board. An independent auditor conducts an annual audit of the hnd, and the audit report is
made public. SOFAZreports quarterly inthe press on total inflows received, expenditures and interest earned.
13  Additional amendments clarify the jurisdiction o f the Chamber o f Accounts (the supreme audit institution) over
the operations o f the consolidated budget, as well as extra-budget funds and budgetary organizations; clarify that the
MinistryofFinance, working inclose cooperationwith the extra-budgetary funds andthe Chamber ofAccounts, has
the authority to prescribe uniformreporting formats for the state extra-budgetary funds and budgetary organizations;
clarify that the Ministry o f Finance has exclusive control over government banking arrangements; and preclude
municipalities from market borrowing.

                                                15


budget organizations inthe budget, includingexpenditures financed by SOFAZ. Subsidies have
also been incorporatedexplicitly into the budget.

45.      To increase operational eficiency the Government realizes the need to make stronger
links between budgetary allocation decisions and operational outcomes by moving away from
allocating resources based on pre-defined norms to a more performance-based budget model.
Implementation o f program budgeting as well as performance management and auditing is key
across all ministries. With the implementation o f the new B S L and introduction o f the MTEF,
spending units will have to be involved much more closely in developing, costing and
prioritizing their sector development programs based on their respective medium term sector
resource envelopes, while identifying key performance indicators. Such performance indicators
o fthe previous year could then serve as a basis for the next year's program. This new framework
will improve clarity in the delineation o f responsibilities for budget execution between the
Ministry o f Finance and the line ministries. There is also a need to strengthen project appraisal
capacity in line ministries and to integrate fully investment spending with the overall public
expenditure planning process. This is necessary not only to improve the efficiency o f public
expenditures but also to increase accountability o f those public officials in charge of these
expenditures.

46.       Financial Management and Procurement System. Based on the analysis o f the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA, completed in September 2003) Azerbaijan's
financial accountability framework in both the public and the enterprise sectors requires
substantial strengthening to ensure transparency andimproved governance. The new Accounting
Law sets the framework for public sector as well as private sector accounting and financial
reporting. Other issues on financial management relate to Treasury management encompassing
 functional requirements for the budget implementation and accounting processes, and internal
 and external auditing. Although the establishment o f the Single Treasury account has resulted in
better cash management and better controls o f budget execution, problems still remain with
respect to reporting and expenditure control. In particular, the problem o f under-budgeting for
 utilities, where spending agencies accrue arrears without registering commitments.

 47.      Currently, no budgetary organization except Ministryo f Finance performs proper internal
 audit function. A strategy would be developed for a properly functioning public sector internal
 audit function, including standard-setting and enforcement o f implementation.            Regarding
 external auditing, the Chamber o f Accounts (the Country's Supreme Audit Institution) is vested
 with the authority and rights to audit andmake public the results o f its audits o f all public sector
 bodies and organizations. Establishing the Chamber o f Account was supported by SAC-11, and
 its institutional capacity is now being developed with support o fIBTA-2.

 48.      Reform o f the procurement system is also a key to improved transparency and
 operational efficiency inthe public sector. The new Public Procurement Law (PPL) was enacted
 inDecember2001with implementing regulations promulgatedbyPresidentialDecreeinJanuary
 2002. The World Bank completed a comprehensive assessment o f Azerbaijan's public
 procurement system in June 2003, through the Country Procurement Assessment Review
 (CPAR). The CPAR made a range o f suggestions covering donor-funded contracts, service

                                                               16


contracts, prior authorization, preferences, technical specification, estimated prices andreview.l4
The State Procurement Agency (SPA) has been in operation since 1998. SPA has prepared a
number o f implementation mechanisms such as standard form of tenders and has been effective
inidentifying andcorrecting breaches ofprocurement rules. SPA is strengthening itscapacity by
building a modem corps of procurement officers covering all districts. It needs to ensure that
transparent and credible procurement practices takes roots by strengthening monitoring and
control, and increasing transparency through information dissemination.                                  An IDF grant is
supporting this development.


Reform Program

49.       Azerbaijan is entering a new phase in its economic development, during a period in
which the country's foreign exchange inflows will greatly exceed its import requirements.
Prudent budget management policies and strong institutions for effective and efficient public
expenditure execution are key to avoid the disappointing experience of many other oil rich
countries who poorly handled the oil boom. Inmanaging the oil boom the Government will
pursue policies to: (i) Dutch disease; and (ii)
                                avoid                                    improve efficiency and effectiveness of
public resources.

     la. Avoid Dutch disease
     >    To ensure prudent management of oil revenues, the Government would maintain the
          prudent governance framework of the SOFAZ by establishing a proper mechanism for
          management o f the oil resources. As continuous performance criteria under this and the
          subsequent PRSCs, the Government will: (i)maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic
          framework; (ii)       ensure that all SOFAZ expenditure decisions (except administrative and
          h n d s management costs) are included inthe annual consolidated budget, MTEF, and PIP
          submitted to Parliament and not to spend SOFAZ resources inexcess of what is approved
          by Parliament; (iii) annual accounts audited according to International Standards
                                    publish
          of Audit (ISA) of SOFAZ; (iv) publish quarterly (un-audited) financial and budget
          execution statements. Under PRSC-I, the Government has ensured all Oil Fund
          expenditure decisions are included in the 2004 budget, MTEF, and the PIP. It has
          published the 2003 audited accounts of SOFAZ. The Government has also approved a
          sustainable, rule-based long-term strategy for the use of oil revenues that is consistent
          with SPPRED objectives. The strategy focuses, among other things, on: (i)                              principles for
          the long-term use of oil and gas revenues; (ii) policy on management o f oil and gas
                                                                         the
          expenditures inthe medium term; and (iii)                the management o f the unspent part of oil and
          gas revenues. The goal is to insulate the budget from short-term swings in oil prices by
          targeting the size of the non-oil deficit. Given the pressing needs for infrastructure and
           social spending in Azerbaijan, significant investments will be necessary to support
           sustainable non-oil growth.




 l4The main issued covered by the CPAR included: the legislative framework and the effectiveness o f regulatory institutions; the
 strength o fthe enforcement regime; and the institutional and human resources capacities and the threat of corruption.

                                                17


   lb. Improve Efficiency and Effectiveness of Public Resources

   P To improve thepublic expendituremanagementprocess and strategicpriority setting, the
       Government has established the MTEF for the budget formulation process. The
       Government realizes that the MTEF and the PIP mechanisms will help to secure
       financing for the priority needs while strengtheningthe linkage betweenpolicy objectives
       set in SPPRED and the annual public expenditure programs. With these mechanisms, the
       Government will establish discipline for all ministries to operate within a strategically
       prioritized expenditure framework, and a predictable resource envelope. The budget
       calendar, as stipulated inthe BSL, entails a much stronger participatory process involving
       line ministries and other budgetary organizations. The budget formulation eventually
       would move from norms-based to program-based, focusing on achieving measurable
       outcomes with performance indicators, starting with health and education. The
       regulations related to the BSLhave been adopted and the Budget ProcessManualswill be
       approved. Considerable training also needs to be undertakeninthe Ministry o f Finance
       and inother lineministries. Under PRSC-I, the Government has further implemented the
       BSL by: (i)   approving regulations; (ii) training o f 80 Ministry o f Finance staff in the
       budget formulation and execution; and (iii) the BudgetProcessManualbasedon
                                                    drafting
       the new BSL and modem management practices. In addition, it has submitted to
       Parliamentthe 2005-2007 MTEF and prepared the PIP for 2005-2007. The Government
       also adopted a newbudget classification system within the framework of GFSM.

   P To strengthen public financial management, the Government would continue to
        strengthen public sector accountability by formulating and implementing a program for
       proper internal audit controls across institutions and buildingcapacity inthe Chamber of
       Accounts. Similarly, capacity to conduct a transparent procurement process would be
        further strengthened. Both the Chamber o f Accounts and the SPA have issued
        satisfactory progress reports and the action plans are under implementation. Further
       policy-based support o f the PRSC is not needed at this point. Instead the PRSC i s
        focusing its support on two crucial components o f the CFAA agenda: (i)   accounting and
        auditing reform; and (ii)   establishing properly functioning internal audit institutions
        within the public sector. Under PRSC-I, the Government has adopted a legal framework
       ,for public sector accounting according to international standards (IPSAS).

Expected OutcomdOutput

50.     With the implementation o f the above-mentioned policy measures and by the end o f the
three-year PRSC period, Azerbaijan i s expected to:

    0   Sustain satisfactory macroeconomic performance with low levels o f inflation;

        Continue managing oil revenues ina transparent, efficient, and sustainable manner;

    0   Formulate and implementits budgetprocess based on a medium term public expenditure
        framework and a PIP, both formulated on a more participatory process, thereby making
        the budget an efficient policy tool for achieving the Government's objectives through the
        adoption o fprogrambudgeting;

                                                        18


    0  Increase transparency and accountability in the management o f public resources by
       instituting performance monitoring and improving quality and coverage o f public
       procurement, andby enhancing financial discipline inthe state-owned enterprises, greater
       transparency in financial reporting, and harmonizing legislation related to accounting,
        financial reporting and auditing;

    0   Show improvement inthe impact o f public expenditures on the welfare o f the population,
        andespeciallyhealthcare andeducation.

C.      StrategicGoal2: GeneratingJobs andSustainableNon-OilGrowth

Major Issues

51.     Inmanyways Azerbaijan is a country of three economies-a                     large and growing oil and
gas sector that has driven rapid economic expansion, but has resulted in few employment
opportunities; agriculture and a non-oil economy outside agriculture, where employment growth
has been modest; and a hidden informal economy. The structural reforms underpinning private
sector development are therefore key for small and medium enterprises to become the main
source o f labor earnings and to formalize business activities. The question is how to create more
employment opportunities and jobs through the development o f the non-oil sector while
continuing to maintain macroeconomic stability.                 This is also the aim o f the second CAS
strategic g0a1.I~

52.     The oil sector is not expected to have a direct effect on the poor due to the limited effect
o f expanded petroleum output on employment. In2002, for example, the oil sector accounted for
about 30 percent o f GDP, but only one percent o f employment.I6 Therefore, the achievement o f
any significant increases in employment, and the resulting reductions in poverty, will need
substantial efforts to stimulate growth and increase competitiveness o f Azerbaijan's non-oil
sectors in the marketplace. This requires improving the trade policy regime and the overall
investment climate and the infrastructure. Inparticular, attention to reforming the financial sector
and corporate governance is o f critical importance to strengthen competitiveness of the non- oil
sector. Weaknesses inthese areas would undermine the confidence o f investors and lenders and
would increase the risk profile o f Azerbaijan for private investment. The result is that investment
in the non-oil sector may remain low despite a growing economy, banks may fail to provide
sufficient credit for growing enterprises, and the economy would fail to provide capital resources
for emerging corporations.

53.     Regarding other dimensions o f governance, recent surveys indicate some progress,
particularly concerning corruption and the business environment.                           The 1999 Business
Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) ranked Azerbaijan at the bottom o f
20 transition economies on measures o f state capture and administrative corruption. The 2002
BEEPS shows quite a significant improvement, notably in those areas where Azerbaijan scored


l5See CAS, April 2003, p. 14.
l6For a more detailed analysis of the issues related to the oil and non-oil sectors and their impact on the economy
see Azerbaijan: Building Competitiveness-An    Integrated Non-Oil Trade and Investment Strategy (INOTIS), World
Bank, Nov. 2003.

                                                 19


poorly in 1999. Also, the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) survey has shown
improvements inAzerbaijan's investment climate, particularly inthe last three years, albeit from
a low base. These trends and those reported in other surveys are encouraging, and provide a
promising platform for continuing efforts to improve governance andbusiness environment.

54.      Further development o fthe non-oil sector would also require improved competition inthe
financial sector. Despite the remarkable progress o f the economy, the financial system remains
underdeveloped. K e y structural impediments to financial sector and markets development are
multifaceted and mutually reinforcing. They include: (i)     inconsistencies and weaknesses in the
legal framework and supervisory practices; (ii)  lack o f transparency arising from weak corporate
governance and inadequate accounting and financial reporting standards; (iii)market
segmentation and lack o f competition; (iv) lack o f legal protection and inefficient courts; and (v)
a poor financial system infrastructure. These result in a general lack o f confidence in the
financial system andits institutions and markets, and a cash-based economy.

55.      A major concern is the disparities betweenBaku, where economic growth is very fast due
to the oil and gas investments, and the regions outside Baku, that does not have the same growth
impetus.     A Regional Social Economic Development Program (RSEDP) has already been
developed by the Government and approved by the President.                The program presents a
comprehensive matrix o f specific policy actions and investment needs broken down by economic
sectors within ten regions with clearly monitorable outcome indicators. The program stipulates
 sector policies for pro-poor growth in a coherent manner as key policy tools for the
implementation o f the SPPRED agenda throughout the country. The policy actions and
 investment projects identified in the RSEDP are based upon and closely linked to the strategic
 objectives identified in the SPPRED ranging from structural reform measures to promote
 regional economic development to specific investment proposals in the economic and social
 infrastructure, such as school buildings, health centers, roads, water supply etc. Inthis respect,
 the program avoids direct government intervention in commercial activities, and envisages
 efficient use o f public resources. The approach to SME not only would expand opportunities for
 earning more income for the poor, it will also reduce the risk o f falling into poverty. Off farm
 employment in SMEs would enable diversification o f household income and would provide the
 first route out o f poverty. The approach to SME and private sector development in general is
 based o f the INOTIS agenda, and involves: (i)   creating cluster working groups; (ii) establishing
 cluster-based information system; (iii)upgrading management, technical and marketing
 capabilities o f cluster firms; (iv) establishing and financing national laboratories for quality
 certifications for domestic and foreign products; (v) expanding value-added forms of production
 based on local produce; (vi) developing wholesale capacity, warehousing and distribution; and
 (vii) promotingnew technologies andwork methods.

 Reform Program

 56.     The promotion of more broad-based, inclusive and private sector led growth is the
 Government's primary policy goal to reduce poverty. To foster non-oil sector growth andjob
 opportunities while maintaining macroeconomic stability, the Government's agenda supported
 bythe PRSC focuses on the following areas: (i)   improvingthe environment for increasednon-oil
 trade, private sector development and investment; and (ii)      improving financial intermediation

                                                      20


and enhancing corporate governance and financial discipline in the financial and corporate
sectors.

   2a: Improve the environmentfor increased non-oil trade and investment

    9 To improve the environment for increased non-oil trade, the Government program
        supported by the PRSC focuses on the following key actions to facilitate trade and to
        enhance integration in the international markets: (i)        accelerating Azerbaijan's accession
        to the WTO and amending the existing laws to ensure that standards policies and
        practices are in line with WTO mandates; (ii)        increasing access to regional markets and
        the European Union; and implementing bilateral trade and transit agreements with
        neighboring countries. Under the PRSC-I the Government has identifiedareas inexisting
        legislationthat need to be amended to ensure standards, policies, and practices are inline
        with WTO mandates. Ithas also drafted a strategy for integratedtransit management.

    9 To improve the overall business environment for private sector development and
        investment, the Government's program includes: (i)            attracting private investment to the
        non-oil sector by improving the legal framework and streamlining administrative
        procedures; (ii)protecting against unfair competition; (iii)supporting formation o f
        industry clusters; and (iv) promoting regional diversification for SME development.
        Under the PRSC-4 the Government has: (i)submitted to Parliament the unified
        Investment Law; (ii)   assessed administrative barriers to private investment; (iii) a          drafted
        Competition Code and reviewed related legal instruments; and (iv) adopted as part o f
        implementation o f SPPRED the medium term Regional Social Economic Development
        Program for private sector infrastructure and social development in the regions outside
        Baku,andestablished animplementation coordination unit.

    2b: Improvefinancial intermediation and discipline

    9 To improve financial intermediation and public confidence the program of the
        Government covers the reforms identified in the recent Financial Sector Assessment
        Program (FSAP), which in addition to the reforms set up under Corporate Governance
        (see below), include: (i)     addressing weaknesses in the legal, regulatory and supervisory
        framework for the financial sector development; and (ii)           buildingfinancial infrastructure
        to facilitate access to finance and markets development, especially inrural areas. Access
        to financial services for the SMEs and the poor has been inadequate, especially in rural
        areas, and this is the key challenge for poverty reduction and rural development. Under
        the PRSC-I, the Government has enacted the Banking System Law adhering to Base1
        principles, and a new Law of the National Bank that significantly strengthens
        independence and the banking supervision mandate. The Government has also adopted a
        new Payment System Strategy to develop payment systems and card processing
         according to the principles o f fair and equal access and competition and to create access
         o f the regions outside Bakuto financial service^.'^


"Otherelementsoffinancialinfrastructureincludeacreditriskregistryandregistriesofmortgagesandpledged
movable property, which would facilitate credit riskmanagement and, thus, access to credit. These and other

                                                           21




    0    To enhance corporate governance and financial discipline in the financial and the
         corporate sectors, including state-owned enterprises, the Government's program focuses
         on strengthening incentives for the enactment and rigorous application o f high quality
         financial reporting, accounting and auditing standards through the adoption o f the
         International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and International Standards on
         Auditing (ISA). Under the PRSC-I, the Government has enacted the new Accounting
         Law and started drafting related secondary legislation, which among other things: (i)
         mandates the use o f pure IFRS by public interest entities,"                  (ii) mandates the use o f
         National Accounting Standards (NAS), i.e., simplified IFRS, by all other entities except
         micro enterprises andnatural persons, for which a simplified accounting system would be
         sufficient; and (iii)establishes an appropriate framework for the governance o f
         accounting standard setting under the responsibility o f the Ministryo fFinance.

Expected Outcome/Output

57.      With the implementation o f the above mentioned policy measures and by the end o f the
three-year PRSC period, Azerbaijan would expect to achieve:


    0    Rapid andbroad-based economic growth with employment generation;

    0    More developed non-oil exports based on WTO compliant legislation;

    0    Increased competition in the banking sector, lower cost o f credit, increased access to
         credit and financial services, especially inrural areas;

    0    Improvements in the quality o f audited financial statements from the corporate and
         financial sectors, as perceivedbykey user groups (survey data);

    0    Increaseduse o f audited financial statements to support lending andinvestment decisions,
         lessening reliance on collateral-based lending.

D.       Strategic Goal 3: Improving Social Services and Infrastructure

Major Issues

58.      Less than adequate financial discipline, non-payments, explicit and implicit subsidies,
and instances o f conflict o f interests in the energy, transport and telecommunication sectors
constitute one o f the most serious and difficult problems facing the economy o f Azerbaijan. The
resulting high economic and social costs are manifested in increasing inefficiencies and
consumer losses caused by monopolistic behavior, frequent systems breakdown, as well as direct
impact on health and poverty. Secondly, MDGs o f the education and health sectors are not

                                                                                           ~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    ~~~~    ~




development o f financial services inthe regions outside Baku will also be supported through the new Financial
Services Development Project.
   Public interest entities are defined as entities representing a noticeable public interest because of their activity,
their size, their personnel or their legal status (wide range of shareholders).

                                                              22


improving very fast. This is not a matter o f public funding only, but also o f governance and
structural problems that must urgently be addressed.

59.      Improvements inthe infrastructure sectors (inparticular utilities, telecom, and transport)
are as critical to further expansion o f the non-oil sector, as they are for improving the living
standards o f the low-income population (particularly their access to heating andwater). It should
be noted that in a survey o f business enterprises, infiastructural constraints to further expansion
were mentioned by a higher proportion o f enterprises inAzerbaijan than in any other country o f
Eastern Europe and the CIS. The infrastructure sectors are costing the Government large
amounts o f money interms o f untargeted subsidies benefiting the rich more than the poor. Yet,
physical conditions have generally deteriorated since the collapse of the Soviet Union, and
service quality is poor, especially outside Baku. Inthe utilities sector, the Government needs to
address the problems of: (i)            restructuring and opening up for private participation; (ii)             low
collection rates for utility services; (iii)         non-compensatory tariff levels; as well as (iv) the issue
o f independent utility regulation. The telecom sector is operating at less than its potential and is
dominated by one company, Aztelecom, which i s operating as a monopoly. Bothhere and across
the transport sector, conflicts o f interest arise from lack o f separation o f regulatory and
commercial functions.

60.       Azerbaijan's ability to ensure efficient delivery o f quality social services has been
compromised by inadequate resource management and limited technical capabilities. Delivery o f
social services to the most needy is also being challenged by the large number o f IDPs.
Restructuring and reform o f basic social services are therefore key preconditions for improving
the delivery of social services to the population ingeneral and to the poor and vulnerable groups
inparticular, the thirdstrategic goal o fthe CAS."

61.       Education. At independence, Azerbaijan inherited a relatively well-developed education
 system from the former Soviet Union with relatively good standards o f education for a country
o f its income level. At present, the Azerbaijan education system is facing the challenge o f
providing quality education services, while pursuing reform to meet the educational needs of a
market economy. The main issues facing the education sector include: (i)                      reduced quality o f
 education services; (ii)       growing inequities in access to good education, especially for the poor,
 due to the growing costs o f education and declines in the quality o f general education;
 (iii)inefficient use o f available resources; and (iv) weak management, planning and monitoring
 capacity at the central and local levels.20

 62.       To address these issues, the Government has prepared the Ten-Year Education Reform
 Strategy in2003.21 The priority reform areas o fthis plan include: (i)               improvement o f the quality
 o f teaching and learning; (ii)         the establishment o f a student learning assessment system; (iii)
 teacher development; (iv) strengthening o f education management and governance; (v)
 improvement in the efficiency in the use o f resources; (vi) upgrading o f the curriculum for
 general education; (vii) provision o f new equipment and learning materials; (viii) improvement


 l9See CAS, op. cit., p. 19.
 2oAzerbaijan Public Expenditure Review, Poverty Assessment and the Project Appraisal Document for the Education Sector
 Development Project discuss these challenges in greater detail.
 21This is being supported by the Education Sector Project.

                                                        23


inaccessto quality education; and(ix) improvement ofthe availability andquality oftextbooks
ingeneral education. The objectives are to improve the quality and relevance of education and
to strengthen the capacity to manage resources more efficiently and effectively.

63.     Health. Between 1990 and 2001 the Life Expectancy at Birth (LEO)in Azerbaijan has
been shortened by six years, the highest decline in the ECA Region. The health situation is
indeed disconcerting especially if one considers that a large part o f the decline could be
attributable to an increase in infant (81 per 1000 live births; 38 neonatal and 43 post neonatal),
child (1-4 years o f age, 11 per 1,000 live births) and matemal mortality (79 per 100,000 live
births), all corroborated by independent surveys. Despite the wide-scale availability o f health
facilities and providers, access to and quality o f care are compromised because o f a myriad o f
system-related factors, very low levels o f skills and competence and low productivity and
effectiveness inservice provision. The failure to reformthe old Soviet-style centralized financing
and normative allocation o f human, physical and financial resources resulted in skewed
expenditure allocations with excessive hospital facilities and inefficient tertiary level services as
well as poorly fbnded and runhighly fragmented primaryhealthcare services.22

64.      Indeed, compared with the other countries o f the FSU, Azerbaijan is lagging behind in
modemizing its healthcare system. Health financing is still input-based, prorated to staffing and
number o f beds, with little relationship to the real health and health care needs o f the population
and the variations therein across the country. While in 1990, the last year before independence,
almost 9 percent of total government budget was allocated for health, public expenditures for
healthcare were dropped down to 5.3 percent o f the total government budget in 2000. One
reason for the decrease in budget expenditures on health care was the growing extra-budgetary
revenues collected by the MOH through the introduction o f user fees for a number o f in-patient
and out-patient services and drugs. While this practice is discontinued, there has not been any
real increase in public outlays for healthcare to compensate for the reduction in revenues. Not
surprisingly, the low level o f public expenditure has increased the private costs o f health
services, being they formal, such as out-of-pocket payments for pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies, or informal, i.e., payments made to doctors and medical personnel for access to better
quality or prompt services.

 65.     Despite the continued economic progress since 2000, the issues related to health, except
 for minor reforms, remain largely unresolved. As part o f the SPPRED, a reform strategy has
been formulated which envisages an increase in public outlays in the health sector, including
wage increases that needs to be followed by a certain amount o f downsizing in the health
workforce. At the same time, a system o f flexible budgeting would be introduced to ensure that
 the rationalization efforts are not penalized by subsequent reductions inbudget allocations. The
 Government also recognizes that there is a need to redirect health outlays towards providing
 improved primary health care. However, major reforms are needed to improve allocative
 efficiency o f health expenditures and to enhance the quality o f health care, especially at the
primaryhealth care level.




 22Feldshers, ambulances, polyclinics, disease-specific hospitals, many with only a few beds (see the European
 Observatory's report "Health Care Systems inTransition, Azerbaijan", pp19-20, January 2004).

                                                           24


66.      Social Protection. As mentioned before, poverty is the overriding development issue in
Azerbaijan. The Government needs to increase its capacity to provide protection to the poor and
the vulnerable, and to cushion the impact o f the forthcoming utilities tariff increases without
prolonging undue distortions in the factor and product markets. Inthe area o f social insurance,
including public pensions, the key issues include: (i) benefits due to lax eligibility criteria,
                                                                   low
and low coverage, Le., a low number o f contributors to the system; (ii) complex benefits     a
system that is difficult to administer; (iii)        no link to contributions; (iv) unsophisticated andweak
record keeping capacity in particular with respect to employers, contributors and beneficiaries;
(v) undeveloped and often opaque financial management systems; and (vi) involvement o f
enterprises in benefits administration, which makes monitoring o f benefit award and payment
difficult.   As far as social assistance the key issues include: (i)                 poor targeting o f benefits;
(ii) fragmentation o f benefits; (iii) benefit levels due to insufficient resources; (iv) weak
                                              low
capacity to analyze, monitor and evaluate policies; and (v) weak capacity to efficiently
administer benefits.

Reform Program

67.      The Government's program to improve delivery o f utility, infiastructure and social
services is reflected inthe SPPRED. The PRSC together with our sector projects would support
the implementation o f the program in the following areas: (i)                    improving utility services by
developing tariffpolicies, a modern regulatory framework, and enforcing payment discipline; (ii)
improving telecom and transport services through restructuring and enhanced competition; and
(iii) improving social services by increasing quality and access to basic education, enhancing
equitable access to essential drugs andhealthcare services, andby improving the effectiveness o f
pension and social protection programs. The PRSC will not directly support specific measures
for the IDPs, which are better supported by the IDA social fund type project and other donor
activities. SOFAZ is the Government's main financing source for IDP assistance, with US$47
million allocatedin2004 for housing and settlement projects for IDPs.

     3a: Improve utility services
     >   To develop utilities services the Government program aims at commercialization and
         reduction o f substantial explicit and implicit subsidies o f more than US$500 million
         according to the Letter o f Intent o f the Government dated April 21, 2003.23 Actions
         include: (i)restructuring o f utility companies and opening up for new private
         participation; (ii)    a new enabling regulatory framework and establishment of a Utility
         Regulatory Agency; (iii)establishing a medium-term tariff policy to reach full cost
         recovery inthe energy and water sectors; (iv) introduction o f IFRS in utility companies;
         and (v) establishing a social assistance program for vulnerable households to minimize
         negative social impacts o f the reforms. Under the PRSC-I, the Government has developed
         the medium term tariff policy for the utilities and submitted an appropriate regulatory
         framework for an independent regulatory agency to Parliament. The Government has
         also reduced energy sector implicit subsidies by 20 percent inreal terms, and ensured that
         budgetary institutions and the state-owned enterprises are current with their utility
         payments.

23Utilities services include electricity, natural gas, water, wastewater, andheating services.

                                                           25



   3b: Improve infrastructure services
    >    Inthe telecom sector the emphasis of the PRSC program is on: (i)                        separating regulatory
         and commercial functions, and establishing the National Communications Regulatory
         Authority; (ii)    restructuring and divestiture o f Aztelecom andrelevant state-owned assets
         in joint ventures;24 (iii)preparing and approving WTO-complaint, EU-reflective
         communications legislation; and (iv) enhancing competition. Under the PRSC-I, Ministry
         o f Communication and I T has approved a comprehensive State Program on
         Communication and InformationTechnology which includes the according elements, and
         privatizedthe Backcellmobilephone company.
    >    In the transport sector the Government program focuses on restructuring by
         corporatization and possibly divestiture o f relevant state-owned assets and by separating
         regulatory and commercial functions. A new regulatory framework for the air, rail, and
         maritime sectors would be implemented and the Baku Sea Port opened up for all
         shipping. Under the PRSC-I, the Government has transferred regulatory functions
         exercised by the Caspian Shipping Company to the new Maritime Administration at the
         Ministryof Transport and initiated a similar process regarding M A L and AzerRail. In
         the near future the Government will announce that it i s opening up the Baku Sea Port to
         intemational shipping with a fair and transparent process of setting tariffs. Furthermore,
         as mentioned above, a modem integrated transit strategy has been drafted with
         participationof domestic stakeholders, border agencies, andneighboring countries.

    3c: Improve Social Services

    >    To increase quality and access to basic education, the SPPRED identifies several major
         directions for education reform, including curricula reform based on the needs o f the
         emerging economy, teachers' training, and improving physical conditions of schools.
         Also, inorder to improve access to education, reforms o f the student financial aid system
         and provision o f free textbooks for all students are needed. Inline with these objectives
         the Government programsupportedbythe IDA Education APL focuses on: (i)                                 improving
         the quality and relevance o f education; (ii)               improving effectiveness and efficiency in
         resource allocation; and (iii)       improving management, planning, and monitoring capacity
         o f the Ministry o f Education through development and implementation o f a system o f
         student assessment and systematic collection and publication of data on enrollment and
         attendance rates, as well as the establishment o f policy/planning capacity and education
         management information systems. The PRSC supported program focuses                                               on
         complementary reforms, consistent with MDGs, leading to better allocative and
         operational efficiency drivenby programbudgetingand expenditure tracking. Under the
         PRSC-I,the Government has completed the EducationFinance and Expenditure Strategy
         and approved a textbook policy including financing the development, publishing, and
         distributiono f free-of-charge core textbooks to all grades.


24This will involve: (i)conductingvaluation and negotiate the terms and conditionsof divestiture ofrelevant state-owned assets
injoint ventures, notablyinthe two main mobile operators; and(ii)implementingapre-restructuringdiagnosticfinancial audit of
Aztelecom.

                                           26



9 To improve access to Primary Health Care (PHC) services, and effectiveness and
 coverage of national health programs, the Government, supported by the IDA Health
 Reform LIL, together with international donor agencies and the NGO community, is
 piloting a number o f programs that focus on improving access to and quality o f primary
 healthcare in selected districts, and increase in surveillance, case detection and cure rates
 o f main communicable diseases (HIV/AIDS andtuberculosis).

9 To improve equity in health care and eficiency in resource allocation, the program
  focuses on the longer-term goal o f improving the equity, efficiency and user and provider
  satisfaction in health care. More specifically, the Government would: (i)             increase
 budgetaryallocations for healthcare needs o fthe population within the framework o f the
 MTEF; (ii) a Ten-Year Health Sector Development Strategy, combined with an
               adopt
  implementationplan, which includes a sound humanresources development policy and a
 new policy on pharmaceuticals; and (iii)      redefine the roles and responsibilities o f the
  Ministryof Health and delineate the spheres of responsibilities between the Center and
 the field offices. To initiate the reformprocess, the Government would: (i)      re-activate the
  Health Reform Commission; (ii)set up a mechanism whereby a consensus building
  process would be launched under its leadership and inclusive o f all stakeholders
  (professional associations, private sector, consumer representatives, etc); and (iii)  issue a
  health policy and reform white paper with a set o f recommendations and a time table for
  implementation. The PRSC program would complement and support this time-bound
  health sector reform plan, as well as implementation of program budgeting and
  expenditure tracking. The program will also help Azerbaijan towards meetingthe MDGs.
  Under PRSC-I, the Government has completed the Health Expenditures study.

P To improve effectiveness of social protection programs and to assist individuals and
  households better manage risks, the Government program focuses on a range o f actions
  aimed at improving living standards and increasing efficiency, effectiveness and
  sustainability o f social protection programs. Inthe area o f social insurance the program
  supported by the new IDA Pension and Social Assistance Project includes modemization
  o f the social insurance benefits administration through introduction o f a comprehensive
  management information system, and strengthening o f the financial management o f the
  State Social Protection Fund (SSPF);          and moving all social insurance benefits
  administration from enterprises to the SSPF. Contributions under the public pension
  scheme would be used to only finance pensions o f participants. Thus the practice o f
  introducing special public pension arrangements for various categories o f employees at
  the expense o f general social insurance scheme would be discontinued. A new Public
  Pensions Law would introduce parametric changes into the pension system and closer
  links between contributions and benefits. The measures in the area o f pension are
  expected to result inbetter revenue andmore efficient expenditure management, which in
  turnshould allow for further increases inpensions. Given that pensions are an important
  income source for the poor families, this outcome is expected to have a direct positive
  impact on the poor.

9 With regards to social assistance, the Government's program supported by the IDA
  Pension and Social Assistance Project includes: (i)      national roll-out o f the targeting o f

                                                 27


       social assistance benefits based on eligibility assessment taking into account the
       economic and social situation o fthe applicants; (ii) consolidation o f various benefits into
       a single targeted family poverty benefit in cash as o f 2006 and a significant increase o f
       resources allocated to its financing; and (iii)
                                                     modernization o f the capacity o f Ministry o f
       Labor and Social Protection o f the Population (MLSPP) to administer social assistance
       benefits using computerized MIS. The PRSC supports legislative requirement for these
       programs to succeed. Most importantly, the PRSC supports the implementation o f a fully
       functioning targeted family poverty benefit incash in order to alleviate the social impact
       o f the new utility policies the PRSC also supports. In addition to the targeting of social
       assistance, an increase in spending on poverty benefits is expected to further mitigate the
       impact o f increase inutility tariffs on the poorest segment o f the populations. ThePRSC
       program would complement and support the Pension and Social Assistance Project and
       as a first step under PRSC-I, the Government has submitted to the Cabinet a draft
       framework Law on Targeted Social Assistance. The State Social Protection Fundhas also
       drafted a time bound plan for transfer o f administration o f social insurance benefits from
       enterprises to the State Social ProtectionFund

Expected Outcome/Output

68.    With the implementation o f the above mentionedpolicy measures and by the end o f the
three-year PRSC period, Azerbaijan expects:

    a  Better utility services by economically viable companies regulated by an independent
       regulatory agency andwith targeted subsidies for the poor only;

       Transport andtelecom sectors open to new and growing business;

    0  Improved access to general education, especially for the poor segment o f the population
       andIDPs;

    0  Increased access to and quality o f healthcare services, and improved healthcare financing
       and allocation ofresources inthe health sector;

    a  Improved service to pensioners andpoor families receiving social assistance benefit, as a
       result o f computerized record keeping, payments and management information system, as
       well as modern techniques used for assessing benefits eligibility (field visits, community
       monitoring, etc.);

       Targeting about 50 percent of the social benefits to poorest segment o f the population.

E.      Strategic Goal 4: Realizing the Oil and Gas Potential

Major Issues

69.     SOCAR is the state owned enterprise in charge of oil and gas production in Azerbaijan.
This includes own production as well as production sharing agreements (PSAs) with foreign
joint-venture partners inA C G and Shah Deniz upstream development, as well as B T C and SCP

                                                   28


pipeline development, among several other. SOCAR's headquarters, business unit offices and
main operational facilities are dispersed throughout Azerbaijan and until recently consisted of
171 business units grouped by type o f operations into 16 departments, a multi-layered
organizational structure, with approximately 80,000 employees. On January 24, 2003
PresidentialDecree #844 was issued to solidly strengthen the financial structure o f SOCAR. This
Decree separated several non-core assets fiom          SOCAR in view o f the preparation o f their
privatization. A major corporate restructuring consolidated SOCAR into eight divisions.25

70.     Major issues involve full implementation o f the financial and organizational restructuring
o f SOCAR along the lines o f the decree, including capacity buildingfor accounting according to
IFRS, modem management organization and MIS, spin-off o f non-core activities and related
labor issues, as well as separation of commercial functions fiom those where SOCAR acts as the
agent o f the State, e.g. PSAs. It is expected to take 3-4 years to fully implement this plan. The
PRSC will support the necessary transition model for this undertaking. Other major issues relate
to the environmentally responsible operations o f SOCAR, and dealing with legacy pollution
dating back to the Soviet era and before. Environmental concems over the medium-term will
present the Government an important challenge for its economic policies to remain sustainable.

Reform Program

71.     To proceed with the implementation o f the Presidential Decree No. 844 and the previous
Presidential Decrees aimed at fostering the commercialization and restructuring o f SOCAR and
the separation and privatization of SOCAR's non-core assets, the Government and SOCAR are
implementing additional measures inthe following two areas:


    4a: Improve thefinancial and organizational structureof SOCAR

    9 To improve the financial and organizational structure SOCAR will implement the
        Financial Restructuring Plan, which it has prepared in co-operation with a reputable,
        intemational accountancy firm. By implementing this plan, SOCAR will consolidate
        accounting and centralize treasury functions. Annual consolidated financial statements
        will be prepared in accordance with IFRS, and audited by internationally reputable
        auditing firms according to ISA.
    >   SOCAR will prepare and implement a plan o f actions to fine-tune and deepen the
        commercialization and restructuring o f SOCAR in co-operation with a reputable,
        intemational      management      consulting      company.     Based on  the   consultant's


25 These include:
 1.     "Azneft" ProductionAssociation;
2.      Geophysical and Geological Engineering Production Association;
3.      Oil Pipelines Division
4.      Marketing and Economic Operations Division;
5.      ForeignInvestments Division;
6.      "Azerneftyag" oil refinery;
7.      "Azerneftyanacag" oil refinery;
8.      BakuDeepwater Jackets Plant.

                                                29


       recommendations, SOCAR will install a comprehensive, computerized Management
       Information and Financial Reporting System. To avoid potential conflicts o f interests,
       SOCAR will within its corporate structure provide for the separation o f its commercial
       activities (including staff and information) from those activities SOCAR undertakes as an
       agent o f the State (e.g. the PSAs). Under the PRSC-I, a management consulting company
       has been hired and is advising SOCAR on implementing the agreed action plan on
       financial and corporate restructuring, including the gradual but full adoption o f IFRS.

4b: Address environmental responsibilities

    P Toaddress environmental concerns with the aim to improve emergency preparedness and
       minimize eventual negative environmental impacts from the operations o f the oil industry
       inAzerbaijan, SOCAR andthe relevant government authorities wouldprepare aNational
       Oil Spill Response Plan.

    P The Government would adopt norms and standards for clean up o fbrownfields based on
       assessment o f health risk and complete the inventory o f industrial contaminated sites
       categorized by risk exposure and health impacts.          Government would also adopt
       regulations for corporate compliance with environmental standards (audit, EMPs).

    P The Government would conduct an environment audit o f SOCAR and would complete
       the GIS based inventory o f oil-contaminated sites. Clear accountability for cleanup would
       be established between the Government and SOCAR.              In addition, the Government
       would initiate implementation o f the environmental legacies cleanup program. Under the
       PRSC-I,the Government has approved a HazardousWaste Management Strategy. An in-
       depth description o f the environmental aspects concerning the proposed PRSC is
       provided on p.39 below.

Expected OutcomdOutput

72.    With the implementation o f the above mentioned policy measures and by the end o f the
three-year PRSC period, Azerbaijan expects:

    0  A commercialized SOCAR with financial transparency according to IFRS and ISA, a
       better organizational structure concentrated on core activities, and improved balance
       sheets.

    0  Non-core activities o f SOCAR spun o f f and activities as agent o f the State separated.

    0  To have started the environmental cleanup process, which would absorb labor made
       redundant bythe reorganization.

                                                30


F.      ImplementingSPPRED: Outcomes, MonitoringandInstitutionalCapacityBuilding

Major Issues

73.     Underthe framework o fthe SPPRED, IDA isworking closely with the Government, civil
society, and other donors to support plans for monitoring and evaluation, based on sample
surveys as well as statisticalreporting systems. The HouseholdBudget Survey is now performed
on a quarterly basis, but quality needs to be strengthened, and the database made available on a
timely basis for analysis by other researchers.      Full implementation o f the BSL will also
contribute to improve the timeliness and quality o f public expenditure data. Other areas o f focus
include the health sector, where currently, data unreliability makes it impossible to adequately
monitor progress inachieving the MDGs.

74.     The SPPRED marked the start of a comprehensive dialogue on the overall development
strategy between the Government and all key stakeholders. Participatory appraisals took place at
the village level bringing Government officials in direct contact with civil society covering
villages and towns across Azerbaijan. The National NGO Forum and the Government has
established a working relationship which should develop further during implementation. IDA is
also encouraging the Forum to reach out to other NGOs who are not members, especially those
outside Baku, inorder to expand participation andrepresentation.

Reform Program

75.     Strengthening monitoring requires developing institutional arrangements that would
collect, analyze, and disseminate timely statistical data to monitor the effectiveness of
Government policies. The Government reform program focuses on two dimensions: (i)
strengthening capacities to improve performance monitoring; and (ii)       strengthening oversight
andparticipation.
     > To   improve poverty and performance monitoring, the Government program includes
        conducting surveys, publish annual reports, and strengthening capacities o f the SPPRED
        secretariat to monitor outcomes. Under PRSC-I, the Government has elaborated a list of
        performance indicators to monitor implementation o f the SPPRED policies and
        programs. It has also conducted regular Household Budget Surveys and published the
        results. The HBS databases have been made available to IDA, which is working with the
        Government on improving the analysis through the three-year Programmatic Poverty
        Assessment. The intention is to make the databasespublicly available on a timely basis.

     9 To strengthen oversight and participation, the Government will improve the high-level
        inter-ministerial function for monitoring and implementation, with the objective to
        increase monitoring capacities in the line ministries.      It will also hold stakeholder
        meetings to support reforms and to receive feedback. Under PRSC-I, the Government has
        ensured smooth registration o f NGOs, by putting into effect the Law on Legal Entities
        Registration and Registry, and its implementing regulations. It also developed a
        satisfactory mechanism for monitoring the process o f registration o f NGOs. With the
        assistance o f the donors a mechanism for monitoring the implementation o f the overall
        reformprogram will be developed.

                                               31



Expected Outcome/Output

76.    With the implementation o f the above mentioned policy measures and by the end o f the
three-year PRSC period, Azerbaijan expects:

    0  Good performance monitoring and evaluation systems for SPPRED objectives with
       feedback to the policy and budget formulation process.

    0  Furtherstrengthening o f civil society andparticipatory processes.

                                                   32


    Table3: CorePolicyMeasuresUnder PRSC-I


Macroeconomic stability     0Maintaina satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
Maintainprudentpolicies     0Ensure all SOFAZ expenditure decisions are includedinthe 2004 budget,
inthe useof oilresources.    MTEF,andPIP.
Maintainprudent              Publishthe 2003 audited accountsof SOFAZ.
governance framework in
the Oil Fund
Improve strategic priority  0Submitto Parliamentthe 2005-07 MTEFandprepare the PIPfor 2005-07.
setting and expenditure

Improve transparency and    0Implement Budget SystemsLaw (BSL)by: (i)        approvingregulations;
accountability inpublic      (ii)initiating training of the MOF staff involvedinbudget formulation and
financial management.        execution o f BSL; and (iii) drafting Budget Process Manual based on the
                             new BSLand modem managementpractices.
                             Adopt legal framework for Public Sector Accounting accordingto
                             international standards(IPSAS).




Improve financial           0Adopt a newpayments system strategy to further developpayments
intermediationand access     systems and cardpayments, establish fair and equal competition inthis
to financial services        area and create access ofregions to financial services.
Enhance the legislative     0Enact the new Accounting Law, which: (i)    mandates the use o f "pure"
framework on financial       IFRSbypublic interest entities; (ii)  mandates the use ofNational
reporting, accounting, and   Accounting Standardsby all other entities except micro enterprises and
auditing.                    naturalpersons for which a simplified accounting system is sufficient; and
                             (iii)establishes an appropriate framework for the governance o f the
                             accounting standard setting process under the responsibility o f the
                           I MinistryofFinance

Consolidate reform inthe    0Develop a medium-termtariff policy for the utilities, and a regulatory
utilitysectors               framework with an independent regulatory agency.
Open up the transport       0Transfer regulatory functions currently exercised by Caspian Shpping
sector to competition        Company to the Ministryof Transport, and initiate a similar process
                             regardingair andrail sectors.
Strengthen and target       0 Submit to the Cabinet a draft framework Law onTargeted Social
social assistanceto the      Assistance.
poor

Ensure restructuring and    0 Implement the agreed actionplan, including adoption of IFRS, on
commercialization of          financial and corporate restructuringo f SOCAR.

                                                33


                                 V.      THEPROPOSED      CREDIT

A.      Relationsto the CountryAssistance Strategy

77.     The objectives o f the proposed PRSC are consistent with the strategic goals o f the CAS,
which is designed to support the SPPRED. Covering the six SPPRED priorities, the CAS focuses
on the following four strategic goals aiming to: (i)  manage the oil boom to facilitate growth o f
non-oil sector; (ii)generate employment opportunities through improving the business
environment and building appropriate infrastructure for SME development; (iii)    improve access
to basic services; and (iv) help realizing the oil potential within the SPPRED time-frame and
targets.

78.     To accomplish these goals, the Bank Group strategy presents inthe CAS specific actions
focusing, inter alia, on developing the budget preparation system and improving the bottom-up
approach to the MTEF, setting a transparent system o f state procurement, strengthening the
supreme audit institution, enhancing the effectiveness o f social expenditures, improving
govemance, ensuring an enabling environment for private sector development, and improving
efficiency and quality o f social service delivery. Related policy measures are supported by the
proposed PRSC, and these measures complement other assistance programs to Azerbaijan,
particularly through our operations in the social sectors (education, health and social services
assistance) and infrastructure (energy, transport, telecom, andrural).

79.     The CAS base case scenario aims for a PRSC inFY05. Furthermore, with PRSC-I prior
actions completed, the Government has met not only the base case CAS triggers, but also made
good progress towards the high case. The high case triggers included financial restructuring o f
SOCAR, and reduction to implicit subsidies to electricity, gas and water. Progress has been
significant in all these areas (see Table 4). The US$20 million equivalent proposed for PRSC-I
will not replace other FY05 lending under the current CAS. The PRSC-I contains strong pre-
Board measures (see Table 3) that demonstrate the commitment o f the Government to speed up
the reformprocess for highcaselending.

80.     As mentioned, the policy environment and the commitment to reform have changed
significantly in Azerbaijan since 2001. The SPPRED provided an opportunity to initiate
important policy measures. The renewed efforts at reform inAzerbaijan is generated from within
and do not stem from a financial need or a need to deal with an external debt problem. The
proposed PRSC seeks to support these reforms, particularly in some o f the most politically and
socially sensitive areas that affect the poor. It is a lending instrument, which goes well beyond
the technical assistance needs o fthe country andis designed to move the policy agenda forward.

                                                     34



                    Table 4: Status of CAS ProgramTriggers for High Case

       CAS Trigger                                                Status
Beginimplementation of          [mplementation o fthe agreed action plan i s underway:
agreed action program on         1.FinancialRestructuring PZan:Ernst& Young has completeda
financial and corporate            detailed action plan to implement IFRS;
restructuringo f SOCAR          2.Commercialization and Restructuring Plan: EBRDLJSTDA
                                   supported consultants are working with SOCAR according to agreed
                                   TOR;
                                3.Separation of CommercialActivities as Agent of State: Started with
                                   the creation o f special purpose vehicles for several PSAs.

Program ofreduction o f         The Presidential Decree o fNovember 2003 reconfirms the program. The
implicit subsidies to utilities MinistryofFinancehasissued strict instructionsfor full utilitypayments
continues beyond SAC-11         of budgetary organization and SOEs. Implicit subsidieshave to a large
                                extent been eliminated, and were reduced further by 20 percent in2003.
                                Significant tariff increases (240 percent for gas and 100percent for water)
                                at end-2004 are addressing the eventual reductiono f explicit subsidies.
Strengthening of
transparency through regular    SOFAZ financial reports are publishedaccordingly on its website. The
publication o f quarterly       audit o f 2003 was completed according to ISA andpublished inMay
financial and budget            2004.
execution statementso f
SOFAZ
Adoption o fnew integrated      The integratedtrade andbusiness development agendawas developed
trade andbusiness               with IDA, see the INOTISreport, op. cit. The agendahasbeen
development agenda.             incorporatedinthe State Program on the Social and Economic
                                Development o f Regions in2004-2008 decreedby the Presidento f
                                Azerbaijan.
Privatizationprogram o f        The four power distribution companies are under private sector
downstream utility sector on    management contracts. Financial and technical advisors have been
track.                          contracted for privatization o f gas and water distribution. However, the
                                process is currently stalledpending a Presidential decree to move on with
                                the 2ndphase.

 81.     Analytical Underpinning.         The reforms under the PRSC draw on a large number of
formal and informal analytical work. The Bank completed the Integrated Non-Oil Trade and
Investment Strategy (INOTIS) in November 2003, the Public Expenditure Review in December
2002, the Poverty Assessment in June 2003, the Country Procurement Assessment Report
 (CPAR) in July 2003, and the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) in
 September 2003. Azerbaijan's recent Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) has noted that
the overall portfolio is in good shape. At the level o f project lending the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC-II) was successfully completed in June 2003, while the Second
Institution Building and Technical Assistance (IBTA-2), approved in June 2002, is currently
 underway. A financial management expert is appointed at the Resident Mission to ensure that
 the financial management system is in place for each project in accordance with standard
 international practices. The PRSC is also intricately linked to the comprehensive Energy Sector

                                                  35


Report for Azerbaijan, completed in February 2005, and the associated PSIA completed in
December 2004

82.    Rationalefor IDA Involvement.            A key question discussed at length during the
preparation of SAC-11 was the rationale for adjustment lending to Azerbaijan while SOFAZ is
accumulating considerable funds at the same time. Alternatives discussed were a technical
assistance project and an array o f sector projects. The results o f our adjustment operations,
particularly the successful completion of SAC-11, clearly demonstrate the virtue of using this
type o f operation in Azerbaijan. The preparation of policy based operations has contributed to
creating a forum for continuous policy dialogue between IDA and the various factions of the
Government. They have served the purpose o f integrating and coordinating the overall reform
program. They have been instrumental in pushing the policy agenda forward and in ensuring
ownership within the Government and at the highest level of decision making.

83.    Relations to SAC.        The SAC-I1main focus is to: (i)       reform of the public sector to
strengthen policies and institutions for public expenditure management and social services; (ii)
accelerate development of the non-oil sector through improvement inthe business environment;
and (iii)improve financial discipline and service delivery in the utility sector. SAC-I1
successfully achieved its objectives (Table 5).

                        Table 5: Major Accomplishmentsunder SAC-I1


        Submitting to Parliament a Budget Systems Law that integrated all extra budgetary funds and
        revenues, except the Oil Fundand Social ProtectionFund, into the state budget.
        Approving the 2003 budget consistent with the MTEFand the PIP for 2003-2005
        Enacting anew procurement law and adoptingits implementationmechanisms, including random
        reviewby independent procurementauditors.
        Establishing the Chamber o f Accounts as the supreme audit institution, appointing the five
        Chamber Auditors, and establishing a comprehensive training program.
        Adopting a medium term strategy for enhancing targeting o f social assistance and alleviating the
        impact on the poor o f newpublic utilitypolicies.
        Adopting a governance and management Eramework for the Oil Fund that provides for
        professional fundmanagement under appropriate oversight, includingprudential investment rules
        and guidelines for desired riskreturn combination.
        Establishing a preliminary baseline formula o f implicit subsidies in the energy sector, together
        withprocedures to measure andmonitor the level o fthese implicit subsidies.
        Reducing implicit subsidies in the electricity, gas, and water sectors by at least 30 percent and
        approving a phased program to eliminate the implicit subsidies completely from the energy and
        water sectors within 5 years.
        Producingmonthly operational andmanagement information to monitor the subsidies to SOCAR.
        Azerenergy, Azeriga, and ARWC.
        Limitingthe use of netting operations in transactions to pay energy and water tariffs involving
        budgetary institutions.

                                                         36


84.      The PRSC would deepen the reform agenda supported by SAC-I1 through supporting the
implementation o f measures to further improve public governance and more effective use o f
public resources; improving the overall business environment for private sector development and
investment; and strengthening financial discipline and service delivery in the utility and social
sectors. Reforms supported by the PRSC program not only will improve income poverty, but will
also improve access to basic infrastructure, education and health services as well as clean water
and sanitation. Other parts o f the SAC-I1 agenda - improvingpublic financial management, and
strengthening the tracking o f poverty reduction expenditures - are all carried forward in the
PRSC program. The last SAC-I1 component, improving the privatization process, i s supported
by IBTA-2.       The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) rated SAC-I1 outcomes as
satisfactory, sustainability likely, and institutional development impact as substantial, and OED
confirmed these conclusions.


      Lessonslearnedfrom the implementationof SAC and SAC II:

             As shown by the experience o f Azerbaijan, adjustment lending can be a powerful instrument even
             for countries that do not need Bank's financing for immediate balance o f payments or budget
             purposes. The policy reform package was crucial in jump-starting and giving direction to the
             Government's development program.            The concomitant requirement for prior actions and
             conditionality for tranche disbursementscontributed to greater coordination across the Government
             and keeping the discipline with implementation. Equally important, this support provided a signal
             o f confidence inthe country's transformation process and assisted inthe mobilization o f additional
              investments--both domestic and foreign.

              An ambitious, complex, and demanding agenda (as in the case o f SAC-11) seeking to accomplish
              extensive behavioral changes in a transition economy in a short period o f time necessitates a
             trusting partnership between the Bank team and the Government's counterparts on the one hand;
              and on the other, consistency o f advice and coordination o f efforts amongst multilateral agencies
              and bilateral donors. Thorough assessment o f ownership and institutional capacity for each reform
              component is crucial. Extensive Bank-wide review can be very helpful, but the Bank should be
              ready to take risks inturnaround cases.

              Government ownership o f policy reforms is a dynamic concept; it can reinforce itself or dwindle
              over time. This issue has particular relevance for policy-based lending in uncertain political
              situations. The program design should take cognizance o f the extent o f broad-based consensus
              amongst policymakers and civil society, and engage the top leadership early on. Flexibility is also
              neededon the part o fthe country team to negotiate unanticipated stumblingblocks. Frequent Bank-
              country dialogue with the continuity and dedication of a well-coordinated country team throughout
              the tenure o f the program helps to reinforce the Government's commitment. The Country Office
              staff is vital inproviding this continuity and dedication.

              Programmatic assistance (as contemplated by the PRSC process) should not be viewed just as
              medium-term and time-bound external support. Development effectiveness stems from continuous
              policy dialogue underpinned by extensive sector projects and ESW integrated within a coherent
              multi-sector program. Adjustment operations can play a crucial integrative role inpaving the way
              for sector projects in achieving the necessary high-level decisions and providing the appropriate
              legal and strategic policy framework.

      See SAC-II Implementation Completion Report, Report No: 29422-AZ, September 1,2004.

                                                         37



85.      The PRSC program follows the successful SAC-11, has been prepared with full
participationo fthe Government and has strong ownership. It emphasizes capacity buildingneeds
o f the country, andits programmatic approach govemingthe three-year rolling policy framework
serves as a practical and flexible instrument to achieve the development objectives and the
poverty reduction goals o fthe SPPRED.


B.       Coordinationwith the IMFandOther Donors

86.      The IMF policy dialogue with the Government takes place inthe context o f the ongoing
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), which will terminate in 2005. The fourth
review was completed satisfactory on December 22, 2004. The PRSC will be prepared in
conjuncture with that operation to ensure the consistency o f the macroeconomic and structural
policy reforms supported by both programs. The PRGF may be followed by a precautionary
SBA, as a transition to surveillance-only status for Azerbaijan. We will make sure that the
macroeconomic framework under the PRSC i s consistent with the IMFpolicy discussions under
the SBA and/or Article IV consultations.

87.      Donor support plays an important role in supporting the implementation o f the SPPRED
and the PRSC programs. The work on PRSC will thus be closely coordinated with the activities
o fthe other donors inAzerbaijan to identifyareas o f comparative advantageinprovidingsupport
to the Government. Inaddition to the IMF, other donor partners inAzerbaijan include UNDP,
which will be closely working with the Bank in assessing progress toward the MDGs. The
UNDP will be also actively involved inthe areas of environmental protection and we are cost-
sharing activities under the IBTA-2 agenda. The Bank will coordinate with the UNICEF on a
wide range o f activities in the social sectors. Activities on private sector development and
promotion o f SMEs will be closely coordinated with those o f the IFC, EBRD, USAID and GTZ
inthe same areas.26 Similarly, activities in rural development, including sanitation and roads
will be coordinated with those of the Asian Development Bank inAzerbaijan. In addition, the
EU, OSCE, and USAID have a strong presence in Azerbaijan and will provide technical and
financial assistance for the implementation o f SPPRED. For example, we are working with
TACIS as one team on the Accounting Law. They will also be active inthe areas o f democracy
and governance. Similarly, we are working as one team with USAID on Treasury Systems, PIP
and utility regulatory reform. We have teamed up with US Treasury on budgetary reform and
we are working with EBRD and USTDA on SOCAR restructuring. The PRSC team will
continue to work with key donor counterparts to coordinate activities on respective programs.


C.        ImplementationandMonitoring

 88.      Cabinet o f Ministers is the main Coordinator managing the overall implementationo f the
PRSC. The Ministryo f Economic Development i s the coordinator o f the SPRRED and IBTA-2.
The primary implementing line agencies will be the Ministry of Finance, Ministry o f Economic


 26The INOTISreport, op. cit., includedan effort to identify all donor activities inthe areas ofprivate sector and
 trade development, and integrate these into an overall coherent strategy. The proposedPRSCbuildsdirectly onthis
 analysis.

                                                         38


Development, Ministry o f Health, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Ministryo f
Communication and Information Technology, Ministry o f Justice, Azerbaijan National Bank,
Chamber o f Accounts, Chamber o f Auditors, State Procurement Agency, the Social Protection
Fund, SOCAR, andthe State OilFund.

89.     Overall monitoring of the program will be carried out through several channels: First,
through regular reviews and in the context of supervision and the preparation o f subsequent
PRSCs. Second, monitoringwill also be carried out through other Bank financed projects, which
complement actions supported under the PRSC. Third, monitoring of public expenditures,
particularly those on social sectors, is o f priority. These data are produced quarterly in the
Budget Execution Reports. Inaddition, under our AAA program an action planfor a three-year
Programmatic Public Expenditure Review has been agreed with the Government. Fourth,
monitoring o f the measures that will impact poverty and the MDGs will be assessed through the
quarterly poverty monitoring performed by the SPPRED Secretariat as well as the annual
progress reports on the SPPRED. The detailed monitoring indicators and baselines for health,
education, and social protection are definedinAppendix 3 of the SPPREDProgressReport, May
2004. Our AAA program also includes a three-year Programmatic Poverty Assessment to
support these efforts. The output indicators will largely be tracked through official information
andperiodic reviews. Outcome and impact indicators will be monitored mainly through survey
data. These data will also be used to prioritize budgetary decisions. The Government has
undertaken major steps to strengthen the monitoring capacity of the MED by creating a
department for the Public InvestmentProgram, andhascreateda Secretariat ofthe StateProgram
on the Social and Economic Development o f Regions in 2004-2008, for implementation o f the
poverty reduction agenda in the regions outside Baku. Donor assistance will also be sought to
strengthen the monitoring capacity o f other line ministries.

90.     The details o f the monitoring plan and the appropriate triggers for PRSC-I1 have been
agreed with the Government. The decision to proceed with the PRSC-11 will largely be
determinedby continued satisfactory implementation ofreformmeasures already inplace andby
anumber o fprior core actions inspecific areas (bolded inthe attached Policy Framework Matrix
for PRSC-11).


D.      CreditAdministration

91.     Trunching The proposed Credit is SDR 13.1 million (US$20 million equivalent). The
Credit would be releasedin one tranche, expected by May, 2005. The Credit would be on IDA
terms, with 35 years maturity includinga 10 years grace period.27

92.     Disbursements and auditing o f the Credit will be subject to a standard negative list o f
ineligible goods and countries o f origin. Disbursements will be made by payments to a deposit
account o f the Ministryo fFinance inthe National Bank o f Azerbaijan. The Ministryo f Finance,

''Itwas considered to demand harder IDA payback conditions for the PRSC. Nevertheless, while SOFAZ
accumulation is projectedto be substantial, the option of exercising the existing Bank claw-back rule was considered
a superior possibility, given uncertainties inoilprices. The NPV o f the payback flow to the Bank may infact be
higher with the claw-back rule than under hardenedIDA conditions.

                                               39


which has in place adequate accounting and financial management reporting system for the
Deposit Account, will maintain records o f all transactions under the Credit in accordance with
sound accounting practices. The Ministry o f Finance will have the Deposit Account audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles acceptable to IDA. If after deposit in this
account, the Credit proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, IDA will require the Borrower to
either: (i)return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) that
                                                                                      return
amount directly to IDA, inwhich case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount o f the
credit. Although IDA will not routinely require an audit o f the deposit account, it reserves the
right to require an audit by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The expected closing date
o fthe proposed PRSC-I is June 30,2006.

93.     An IMF Treasurymission found fiduciary arrangements o fAzerbaijanNational Bankand
the Ministry o f Finance satisfactory andthis was confirmed duringthe SAC-I1 appraisal mission.

E.      EnvironmentalAspects

94.     The proposed operation has been rated a structural adjustment credit governed under
Operational Directive 8.60, and does not require an environmental assessment. The PRSC team
has endeavored to identify any areas that may require particular attention with respect to
environmental issues.

95.     Azerbaijan's national environmental priorities are defined in the 1998 NEAP and has
since gained increasing attention both fiom the public and Government. The following issues are
o fparticular concern: (i)pollution damage fiom industries, especially oil andpetrochemicals, but
also energy andtransport; (ii) problems o f the Caspian Sea, including the dramatic decline in
                                the
sturgeon resources which have global and regional impacts; and (iii)     biological diversity and
forest, pasture and agricultural landmanagement.

96.     Despite institutional weaknesses, the Ministry o f Environmental andNatural Resources is
gradually taking a leading role in the national policy making. Over the last five years there has
been progress inmany areas. However, Azerbaijan faces extensive pressure on natural resources.
The mainpillars defining Government environmental policies inthe mediumterm are:

    0   Managing the environmental challenges connected with development o f the oil industry,
        and a broader, more rapid economic development, especially in coastal areas o f
        Azerbaijan


    0   Addressing sustainable natural resource management within the context o f rural
        development, and conservationo f Azerbaijan's key ecosystems.

97.     The IDA Urgent Environment Project provided a platform for fiu-ther    changes in several
areas in environmental management. The project demonstrates remediation o f mercury-
contamination and oil clean up and support development o f a Hazardous Waste Strategy and an
Oil Clean-up Program raising increasing interest inprivate sector participation inthis area. The
strategy takes into account cost-effectiveness o f different options and alternatives for land
reclamation and should provide long-term guidance inthis important area. The sturgeon hatchery

                                                40


will enable Azerbaijan to contribute to sustainable reproduction of sturgeon in the Caspian Sea.
This IDA project and associated PHRD grants are also helping to strengthen regulations and
buildcapacity inthe Ministry of Environment andNaturalResources, though this will be a long
term process. Capacity at local level remains extremely weak, and coordination with other
ministries needs to be improved. The Government i s considering scaling up o f the remediation
on larger area measures for management and mitigation o f environmental legacies connected
with the oil industry, coastal land use management, and continued support to environmental
monitoring, assessment and enforcement. To set up performance standards, regulations on
clean-up and remediation norms are underpreparation.

98.     Following Azerbaijan's signing o f the Biodiversity Convention in 2001 the Government
made a request to the IDA for assistance inprotected area management. The Natural Resources
and Protected Areas Management Project has been launched. Its objectives are sustainable
natural resource management, rural livelihoods development and ecosystemsconservation intwo
areas in and around the national parks (Shah Dag National Park and Ordubad National Parl).
Activities to be supported would include community level investments in pasture and forest
management, improved agricultural production and rural enterprise development including
tourism, and establishment andmanagement o f national parks inthese areas using a multiple use
concept.

99.     Inaddition to the ongoing projects, the PRSC is capturing opportunities for improving
environmental conditions and reducing hazards to human health. The issue o f corporate
responsibility for historical damage to environment i s particularly important as it concems oil,
chemical and metallurgical industries. Clarity on the responsibility for environmental legacies
should be integrated in corporate reform measures aiming at improved management o f the oil
sector and utilities to motivate firms to make substantial improvements intheir performance and
compliance. Thus a proper regulatory framework should be established to encourage companies
to invest inimprovedtechnologies andbetter environmental management.

 100.    Environmental legacies from industries impact water, soil and air quality and affect the
 flora and fauna. SOCAR's environmental management is o f particular concern. The coastal
 areas o fNorth Apsheron are heavilypollutedby hydrocarbons, phenols, radionucleids andheavy
metals. Soil contamination from industries exceeds by a factor of 150-300 the allowable
 concentration and poses significant threat to humanhealth. Unless a significant policy shift and
 actions towards eliminating root causes take place in parallel to structural changes of the
 economy, Azerbaijan will remaina potentialthreat to environmental stability inthe Caspian Sea.
Under the PRSC program SOCAR will cooperate for the development o f an Oil Clean-up
 Strategy and a GIS base inventory o f oil-contaminated sites, which will set the stage for a
 comprehensive clean up effort.

 F.      Poverty and Social ImpactAssessment

 101.    The PRSC is designed to improve living standards in Azerbaijan by enhancing access to
 and quality o f education and health services as well as basic infrastructure. It is also designed to
 reduce poverty and vulnerability in the medium term by promoting non-oil economic growth
 opportunities and improving the targeting o f social assistance. There are two key areas where

                                                     41


 Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) has contributed to PRSC preparation. These are
 energy sector reform and workers displacement due to the enterprise restructuring and
 privatization.

 102.     The objective of the energy sector PSIA was to identify policy options that enable the
 government to both improve cost recovery andminimize the impact o f these efforts on the poor
 and the environment. A multi-sector steering group was established across the government to
 examine the social and environmental implications o f altemative reform scenarios, with a
 particular emphasis on electricity tariff changes and modifications in service quality attributes.
 The Government i s particularly concerned with the implications o f higher electricity tariffs on
 the heating bills o f the urbanpoor and IDPs. The PSIA analyzed the cost-effectiveness and fiscal
 implications o f alternative mitigating strategies such as targeted cash transfers, lifeline subsidies,
 andincreased energy efficiency. Recommendations have been incorporated into policy measures
 o f the PRSC.

  103.    The Government is also concerned about the impact of rising energy prices on agriculture
 and rural livelihoods. Direct and indirect electricity use in agriculture is low, suggesting that
 electricity sector reforms would not affect agricultural production inAzerbaijan inthe short term.
 The reason i s that energy input inAzerbaijan's agriculture is at historically low levels. Virtually
  all fertilizer used in Azerbaijan is imported, implying that fertilizer prices would not rise with
 higher local electricity and transportation cost. Also, fertilizer use is very low, amounting to
. only about 5 percent o f suggestednorms o ffertilizer use, andthe share inoverall production cost
  is low. Electricity makes up for about 60 percent o f total irrigation cost, and an increase in
  electricity prices would significantly raise irrigation cost. At present, farmers pay only 8 to 10
  percent o f the irrigation cost, and the plan i s to increase water fees step by step to cost recovery
  levels. Ifwater prices are gradually increased, the adverse effect on farmers would be minimal,
  considering that better irrigation services resulting fiom higher cost recovery combined with
  augmented fertilizer use could increase yields by a factor o f 2 to 3, depending on crop and area.

  104.     Negative effects are more likely to occur downstream of the farm gate as higher
  electricity prices would increase production cost for processing firms. Yet, in case studies
  commissioned for the PSIA, ago-processors indicated that they would benefit considerably fiom
  higher quality electricity supply. At present, unreliable energy supply create cost and foregone
  revenue because o f lower production due to electricity breaks, lower quality o f processed
  products because o f interruptions inprocessing, damages o f technological equipment, and cost
  for buying, operating and maintaining autonomous energy supply. Agro-processors reported that
  such losses / additional costs amount to about 15 percent of total production cost. This indicates
  that agro-processors are able to pay somewhat higher electricity prices if the price increases
  comes with improved electricity supply.

  105.     The objective o f the worker displacement PSIA is: (i) determine the welfare and labor
                                                                    to
  market status o f workers displaced due to the enterprise restructuring and privatization; (ii)     to
  assess the capacity o f local labor markets to generate jobs and absorb the released workers; (iii)
  to assess the capacity o f local institutions and stakeholders to contribute to employment
  generation and job placements o f redundant workers. The scope o f analytical work will be
  limitedto enterprises undergoingprivatization andrestructuring inMingacevir city, which is one

                                                 42


of the main industrial centers o f Azerbaijan, as well as local employers and institutions of civil
society in Mingacevir. The methods and results can then be applied nationwide.
Recommendationscan be incorporatedinto PRSC-I1andPRSC-111.

106.    Inadditionto these PSIAs, a number of social assessments havebeenundertaken as part
o f project preparation. These include a rapid social assessment for the social protection reform
project and a social assessment for the rural infrastructure project. The former found that low
level o f social transfers is not enough to lift the poor out o f poverty. Social transfers are
fragmented and not well targeted and their delivery personalized. Furthermore, pensions are too
low, with the maximum o f 3 times minimum wage and the procedures to calculate pension are
not always transparent, The latter found that access to basic rural infrastructure is indeed a key
development priority of the rural population. The most important types o f infrastructure include
energy supply, drinking water, roads, and imgation and preferences are similar for the poor and
the non-poor.

G.      Benefits and Risks

107.    The primarybenefits o f the proposed operation are several:

    e   Supportingkey reforms, such as improvingcorporate governance andinvestment climate,
        that directly contribute to stimulating growth and creatingjobs, particularly inthe non-oil
        sector;

    e   More efficient and effective allocations insectors that have major social impact as well as
        more equitable access to these public services, Le., education, rural, health, social
        protection;

    e   Reorientation and rationalization o f line ministry staff and resources to better deliver
        services andimplement policy to reduce disparities inaccess to basic services;

    e   Support for anti-corruption efforts through reforms in service delivery, better policy
        monitoring, and strengthened financial transparency;

     e  Increased transparency and accountability of public finances through improved public
        expenditure management and strategic allocation of resources through MTEF and PIP
        mechanisms, as well as strengthened procurement and audit functions.

 108.   The primaryrisks to the proposed operation are:

     e  Non-reformershested interests frustrate or delay key elements of the program. The
        political risk is especially noteworthy given Azerbaijan's complex political and
        socioeconomic dynamics. The reform progress supported by the Fundand the Bank has
        been solid duringthe past five years, but progress is sometimes slow, and sometimes goes
        off-track.   Mitigating factors include an active the PRSP process, both in terms o f
        substance and in terms o f engaging the public in its formulation; the close linkage
        between the PRSC-supported reform agenda and our sector projects and technical
        assistance; the President's decree of November 2003 and subsequent actions, both

                                           43


  legislative and administrative, which have clearly defined the senior Government's
  strategy and objectives; and the intense dialogue between the Bank and the Government
  at all levels and the appreciation senior policy-makers show o f the consensus building
  role that the Bankplays.

 Financial management risk. As oil revenues start increasing dramatically, spending
  pressures will too.     This risk should be set against a track-record o f ten years o f
  responsible macro-economic management, including the oil boom and large FDI; and
  notably the avoidance o f large external debt or ill-conceived investments.      A central
  objective o f the PRSC is to mitigate the risk o f too rapid and of inefficient public
  spending, hence the emphasis on macroeconomic management, Oil Fundintegrity, long-
  term oil revenue management strategy, sound budgetpreparation processes, and financial
  accountability.

0 Implementation risk. There is a risk stemming from lack o f coordination among sector
  ministries in implementing the policy measures supported by the PRSC. The multi-
  sectoral nature o f this operation presents implementation risks, as it will require close
  cooperation between the line agencies. The PRSC team will ensure the maximum
  possible ownership o f the PRSC agenda, and that the sector ministries are on board with
  the agreed measures. The President o f Azerbaijan's direct support and subsequent follow
  up is key in this respect. The line ministries have limited institutional capacity, which
  could delay implementation o f key reforms. To mitigate this risk the PRSC will aim to
  strengthen capacity through the ongoing IBTA-I1project as well as support from other
  donor partners. Other Bank operations, dovetailing the PRSC, will provide additional
  support to capacity building needs. Areas o f emphasis for capacity buildingwill include
  public expenditures management, Treasury modernization, and Chamber o f Accounts.
  Greater effort is also needed by the Government to ensure close donor coordination
  through regular and frequent donor group meetings.

0 Resourceflow risk. The volatility o f energy prices, or an unexpected delay incompleting
  the BTC pipeline and Shah Deniz gas project, could seriously affect resource flows and
  public finances and delay implementation o f poverty reduction measures in SPPRED.
  These risks are mitigated by the Government's adoption of a prudent fiscal policy and its
   strategy o f expanding the non-oil sector. Mismanagement o f o i l revenues and Dutch
   disease could also slow down the implementation o f the reform programs. This is
  mitigated by the continued dialogue with SOFAZ, the formulation o f a long-term oil
  revenue management strategy, andthe support to the MTEF andPIP.

0 Political and security risk. Politically, the rapidly growing oil wealth exerts strong
  pressures on the regime to share the wealth more evenly and faster. To mitigate the risk
   o f political upheaval, the Government is aware that it needs to accelerate structural and
   political reforms, quell corruption and open up the supply side o f the economy. Based of
   the SPPRED and supported by the PRSC, the Government is working in a participatory
   way to implement these wide-ranging reforms. In terms o f national security, there has
   been a clear shift towards increasing stability with the neighboring countries inthe recent
   years. However, the potential for renewed conflict on Nagomo-Karabakh could not be
   entirely ruled out. The international community, in particular OSCE with the Minsk

                                        44


group, is actively meditating on this issue. The BTC pipeline is also prone to security
risk,which are identified andmitigatedthrough the associated IFCproject.

ANNEX I
                      LETTER OFDEVELOPMENT POLICY


Mr.JamesD.Wolfensohn
President
The WorldBank
1818 HStreet, N.W.
WashingtonD.C., 20433


                          Azerbaijan's ReformProgramfor
                  BalancedEconomicGrowth andReducingPoverty


Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:

1.      The Government o f the Republic of Azerbaijan is pursuing an ambitious and far-
reaching policy agenda to accelerate structural reforms aimed at balanced economic
growth and poverty reduction as well as strengthening transparency and accountability in
the public and private sectors. Significant improvements in structural policies and public
management o f resources have taken place duringthe past four years. The Government i s
well aware o f the risks associated with handling oil booms and that we so far have
managed to avoid the pitfalls augurs well for future success.


2.      To address poverty and unemployment in a comprehensive fashion, the
Government together with civil society partners has put considerable effort into
producing the State Program for Poverty Reduction and Economic Development
(SPPRED). The Joint Bank-Fund Staff Assessment o f our SPPRED, presented to the
Boardo f Directors inMay 2003 concluded that the SPPRED presents a credible poverty
reduction strategy and provides a sound basis for Bank andFundconcessional assistance.
The strategy clearly recognizes the central importance o f public resource management,
govemance and financial sector reforms,          social sector policies, and improved
infrastructure for poverty reduction. We have now completed the first Annual SPPRED
Progress Report presented to the Board inSeptember 2004.

3.      Insupport of the Government's reform program, we would like to confirm our
intention to seek financial assistance from IDA under the proposed First Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-I) inthe order o f US$20 million equivalent. Structural
reforms that will be supported with this credit aim at maintaining macroeconomic
stability and balanced economic growth by: (i)creating non-oil sector economic
opportunities and jobs; (ii)improving governance and increasing efficiency and
effectiveness o f public resources; and (iii)  promoting social inclusion and improving
service delivery. Our structural reform agenda is complementary to the macroeconomic
program, supported by the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) approved by
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on July 6, 2001. This letter has three sections:

ANNEX I                                        2


(i)an overview of economic policies and recent economic developments, and the
macroeconomic framework; (ii)medium-term development challenges and Poverty
Reduction Strategy; and (iii)  the Government's structural reform agenda.      The reform
measures supported by the proposed PRSC-I as prior actions as well as the actions to be
completed in 2006 and 2007 are summarized in the attached Medium-Term Policy
Framework Matrix

DevelopmentPerformance

4.       Duringthe first year o findependence, Azerbaijan faced difficult initialconditions
that resulted in serious macroeconomic imbalances and a dramatic output collapse. Inthe
first halfo f the 1990s, our economy experienced a cumulative real GDP drop o f about 60
percent, accompanied by hyperinflation, sharp currency depreciation and nearly depleted
foreign exchange reserves. In 1995, we launched a comprehensive stabilization program,
supported by the IMF and the World Bank. Fiscal and credit policies were tightened,
while a number o f structural reforms were introduced, mainly in the areas o f exchange
rate and trade liberalization. At the same time, prospects for growth improved, as the
State Oil Company (SOCAR) signed a number o f production sharing agreements (PSAs)
with foreign investors.

5.      Duringthe second half o fthe 1990s, Azerbaijan registered strong recovery and a
cumulative growth rate o f more than 40 percent. During 1995-1996, non-oil
manufacturing output continued to fall; the relatively labor-intensive light and food
processing industries were hit particularly hard, and output o f consumer durables fell
sharply as well. Starting from 1998, however, our economy has registered strong broad-
based economic growth across sectors, including in agriculture. In 2002 and 2003, real
GDP expandedby 10.6 percent and 11.2percent respectively reflectingbothsoundpolicy
adjustments and highoil prices. In2004, such upwardtrend continued with 10.2 percent
o f real growth, reflecting continued high oil prices, significant growth in investments in
the oil and gas sectors, combined with good economic performance in other sectors.
Lower growth in oil and gas extraction in 2003 continued in 2004 with 2.5 percent real
growth.

6.      Macroeconomic Policies. We have successfully maintained macroeconomic
stability, notwithstanding the sizeable annual capital inflows o f more than 50 percent o f
GDP. Fiscal andmonetary policies have succeeded inpreventing sustained real exchange
rate appreciation since 1995. By end-1999, the real effective exchange rate was about the
same level as at end-1994, and has since depreciated by 30 percent. Monetarypolicies
have successfully aimed at keeping growth o f Manat reserve money consistent with low
inflation, despite the large capital inflows.

7.       At the onset o f our independence, we faced double-digit fiscal deficits, which
were largely attributed to difficult initial conditions. Inrecent years, we have managed to
achieve relatively low overall deficits and avoided substantial accumulation o f domestic
or external debt. Since 1995, public finances have been considerably strengthened and

 ANNEX I                                         3


                           Table 1:Macroeconomic Indicators, 2002-2008

                                                  Actual       Estimate         Projections
                                                 2002     2003     2004    2005   2006   2007   2008
Gross Domestic Product, billion manats          30,312   35,053  41,873   47,800 60,000 79,000 96,000
Gross Domestic Product, US$ millions             6,236    7,138    8,522  9,706 12,121 15,879 19,200
  real growth rate, percent                       10.6     11.2     10.2    14.1   24.9   30.1   20.3
Non-oil GDP, billion manats                     20,900   24,138  29,036   33,550 37,685 42,661 47,932
Non-oil GDP, US$ millions                        4,300    4,915    5,909   6,812  7,613 8,575   9,586
  real growth rate, percent                       14.2     15.9     13.2    11.0   10.3   10.4   10.6


Real Sector GrowthRates,percent
Industry                                             5        4        4      20     44     50     25
Agriculture                                          6        6        5      10     10     10     10
Construction                                        82       61       42       5     -5     -1     13
Trade                                                10      11       13      12     15     14     10
Transport                                             6       7        5      19     45     48     24
Communications                                       15      28       36      23     16     19     16
Other Services                                        3       3        4       9     10      9      9


Domestic Investments, percent of GDP                  9      13       15      15     15     13      13
Foreign Investments, percent of GDP                  33      46       48      33     21     13      9
Monetary Income of Population, billion manats    21,220  24,208   30,047  33,375 41,439 53,190 66,001
  real growth rate, percent                       111.6    114.1   120.7   115.4  124.2 128.4    124.1
Expenditures of Population, billion manats       21,015  23,860   29,677  32,500 40,440 52,560 65,240
  real growth rate, percent                       109.3    113.5   121.0   115.1  124.4 130.0    124.1
Average Monthly Wages, thousand manats            315.2    387.0   483.4   594.8  721.3 865.5 1,081.9
  real growth rate, percent                       121.2    122.7    126.2  122.0  121.3 120.0    125.0
Annual Consumer Price Indices, percent            102.8    102.2    106.7  105.0  102.5 102.5    102.5
Annual Average Exchange Rate, manats per US$1     4,861    4,911   4,914   4,925  4,950 4,975    5,000
Exportsof Goods, million dollars                  2,168    2,592   3,615   3,916  4,879   7,810 10,328
Imports of Goods, million dollars                 1,665    2,626    3,505  3,000  2,650 2,650    2,700
Current Account Balance, million dollars           -768   -2,021   -2,039    -928    844 2,931   4,715
  Source: 2005 State Budget Package Document

  restructured, as revenues have grown and the deficit has been reduced.            The overall
  consolidated budget deficit, excluding the Oil Fund was 0.9 percent o f GDP in 2004
  compared to 3.6 percent in 2002.            Fiscal policy thus has been directed to ensure
  macroeconomic stability by minimizing the budget deficit. Budget revenues grew during
   1995-2004 from 17.6 to 27.3 percent o f GDP due to higher oil prices and a shift from
  direct taxes to taxes on consumption. While the tax base has been widened as compliance
  has improved, we recognize the need to make further progress with tax administration
  reform andwith implementation o fthe new Tax Code.

   8.     The most important reform initiatives in the fiscal area have been: (i)             the
   establishment of the Treasury andthe introduction o f the single-account Treasury system;
   (ii) establishment ofthe StateOilFund;(iii) establishmentoftheChamberof
        the                                               the

ANNEX I                                             4


Accounts, the supreme audit institution; and (iv) reforms o f the budgetary framework,
including the introductiono f the new Budget Systems Law and subsequent amendments
to the law introduced in2003 and2004.

                       Table2: ConsolidatedFiscal Indicators,2005-2008

                                                                                         Billion manats
                                                                      2005     2006      2007      2008
ConsolidatedFiscalRevenues     *                                   12,300     16,370    22,114    26,908
  State BudgetRevenues                                               9,422   11,830     15,575    18,930
  State SocialProtectionFundRevenues                                 2,479     2,925     3,650     3,670
   State Oil FundRevenues                                             1,078    2,665     4,312     6,213
  Explicit Subsidies to Energy Sector                                 1,470    1,370     1,295       945
ConsolidatedFiscalExpenditures    *                                12,858     15,173    19,449    22,317
   State BudgetExpenditures                                        10,001     12,156    15,827    19,100
   State SocialProtectionFundExpenditures                            2,479     2,925     3,650     3,670
   State Oil FundExpenditures                                         1,057    1,142     1,396     1,452
   Explicit Subsidies to Energy Sector                                1,470    1,370     1,295       945
ConsolidatedBudgetDeficit                                             -558     1,197     2,665     4,591
StateBudgetDeficit                                                    -579      -326      -252      -170
*Note: Incalculatingthe revenuesand expendituresofthe consolidatedbudget, the following amounts shouldbe
excludedfromthe total revenues and expenditures to avoid double-counting.
Transfers from the State Oil Fund to the StateBudget                    750       990    1,244     1,250
Transfersfrom the StateBudget to theStateSocial Protection Fund         915       930      950       970
Contributionsfrom the StateBudgetfunded organizations to the
StateSocial Protection Fund                                             483       500      525       630
Source: 2005 State Budget PackageDocument

9.       Inthe external sector, Azerbaijan hasbeenrunninglarge current account deficits.
The share o f oil-related imports intotal imports of goods rose from 3.1 percent in 1995 to
40.7 percent in 2003. Non-oil exports also increased by more than 50 percent during
 1995-2004, reflecting more traditionally, the agriculture sector developments, and the
boost in the non-oil industrial exports in particular. The current account deficits were
 financed by capital account surpluses resulting from strong FDI inflows and official
borrowing. During 1995-2003, cumulative FDI inflows exceeded US$10 billion mainly
inthe energy sector. In2002 and2003, the current account deficit increased significantly
 due to high oil sector imports related to the construction of Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan main
 export pipeline, a trend which continued throughout 2004. We will continue to maintain
macroeconomic stability through fiscal consolidation, prudent management o f budgetary
 andOil Fundrevenues and avoiding excessive exchangerate appreciation.

 10.     TheRole of the State Oil Fund. Without a major new discovery oil production i s
 expected to reach a peak by 2010 and subsequently decline fairly rapidly. To avoid
 excessive exchange rate appreciation and to preserve the Nation's wealth and savings

 ' The amounts oftransfers &om the StateBudget to the State Social ProtectionFundmay change in
 accordance with paras33 and 34.

ANNEX I                                     5


ensuring sustainable development and efficient management o f the oil boom, we have
established the State Oil Fundto accumulate oil revenues from PSAs. The Oil Fundwill
allow Azerbaijan to save part o f oil revenues and prevent adverse effects from
excessively rapid transfers o f oil revenues into the domestic economy. It provides the
necessary financial mechanism to separate commercial decisions on oil extraction from
public spending decisions.

11.    The Government has approved a rule-based long-term strategy for using oil
revenues (LTSUOR), which is based on a path for the sustainable non-oil deficit. A
sustainable non-oil deficit is how much the government can afford to spend over the
long-term without exhausting its assets, and corresponds to a path o f expenditures that
can be financed from the use o f oil revenue. As such, a fraction o f the oil revenues,
conservatively estimated and consistent with this strategy will be allocated for additional
expenditure for lifting bottlenecks that prevent growth and especi.ally affect the poor.
Direct measures are warranted to alleviate the plight o f the poorest, and among them the
one million IDPs andrefugees o f the Nagomo-Karabakh conflict. Moreover, investment
inhumancapital shouldbe increased, thus makingthe new generations better equippedto
succeed in a market economy. In addition, there are huge needs for rehabilitation o f
infrastructure, especially in rural areas.   Nonetheless, by strictly limiting Oil Fund
expenditures to finding projects within the consolidated Government budget, we will
prevent a loosening o f fiscal discipline and avoid the danger o f hurriedly and ill-
conceived expenditure projects.

12.     When it comes to sustained economic development and poverty reduction, the
world has seen more failures than successes with oil windfalls, and the many risks
associated with the oil resources must be identified and properly managed. We shall
continue to resist the inevitable political pressures to spend our oil wealth rapidly. In
order to mitigate the potential pitfalls and pursue an appropriate fiscal policy, the
Government will be guided by the LTSUOR principles: (i) budget would be insulated
                                                             the
from short-term swings in oil prices; (ii)  any spending out o f the Oil Fund would be
consistent with the overall fiscal policy; (iii) additional resources would be allocated
according to strategic priorities, as outlined in our SPPRED and our medium-term
expenditure framework;      (iv) spending decisions would not only be based on the
availability o f resources, but also take into account our institutional capacity to spend
efficiently; and (v) high standards with regard to accountability and transparency o f the
OilFundwould be maintained to ensure aggregate fiscal restraints andgood governance.

StructuralReformandPovertyReductionProgram

 13.    Poverty reduction remains at the center o f our economic policy decision-makings.
Despite the recent high rates o f growth, poverty in Azerbaijan remains widespread.
Based on the 2003 Household Budget Survey (HBS), poverty is estimated at 44.7 percent
with an extreme poverty incidence of 8.8 percent. The incidence o f poverty remain
 slightly higher among urban than rural households. Rural areas, though, are more
 deficient in terms o f access to basic services and suffer from unreliable supply o f
 electricity and gas as well as the clean water. We made some changes to the HBS
 questionnaire in 2002 to achieve consistency with EUROSTAT. These together with

ANNEX I                                       6


changes in the calculation o f poverty aggregates (includingthe poverty line) preclude the
comparison o fpoverty estimates between 2001 and 2002.

14.    The Government's SPPRED is a comprehensive program, through which the
Government is addressing poverty in a participatory fashion. The first Annual Progress
Report o f this Strategy in May 2004 was prepared through an extensive process o f
consultation involving the Government, civil society, the private sector, and the donor
community. The SPPRED addresses six key areas that are essential for alleviating
poverty and raising the standard o f living o f all the population: (i)
                                                                      creating an enabling
environment      for  growth   o f income-generating opportunities;      (ii)maintaining
macroeconomic stability; (iii)  improving quality and access to basic health and education
services; (iv) improving infrastructure; (v) reforming the system of social protection; and
(vi) improvingthe living conditions o fIDPs.

15.    The strategy set out inthe SPPRED and its Progress Report defines the reduction
o f widespread poverty and unemployment as the main economic challenge for
Azerbaijan. Tackling these problems requires balanced growth, which in turn calls for
increased investment not only in the oil sector but especially in the non-oil sector, to
ensure that the benefits o f economic growth interms o f both rising incomes andjobs are
widely shared. Recognizing the crucial role o f the private sector in this endeavor, the
Government will create an attractive investment climate by removing obstacles and
steadily strengthening governance, transparency and accountability, and enhance
competition policies. The Government will consolidate reforms in the utilities and
infrastructure sectors through financial restructuring o f the large natural monopolies;
separation o f commercial and regulatory functions; and introduction o f proper regulatory
frameworks. At the same time, the Government will increase the effectiveness and
efficiency o f its own public expenditures and improve governance inthe public sector by
improving public expenditure management processes and strategic priority setting while
pursuing particular initiatives in key social sectors, notably in the areas o f education,
health, social assistance and environment, as well as in improving poverty and
performance monitoring.

16.     The President has issued a Decree on November 24, 2003, reaffirming
commitment o f the Government to structural reforms and poverty reduction and
identifying a set o f policy actions to be implemented in support o f hrther economic and
social development. The Decree gives important assignments to line ministries to develop
detailed action plans for accelerating reforms in a number of key structural areas. In
particular, the Decree emphasizes employment generation, assistance to IDPs, balanced
regional development, improvement in energy supplies, private sector development,
investment promotion, reform o f the social insurance system, rural development,
administrative reform, and improved financial discipline o f the state-owned enterprises.
The Presidential Decree addresses three broad areas inorder to increase the effectiveness
o f the Government strategy for poverty reduction:

     1. Create non-oil sector economic opportunities andjobs;
     2. Improve governance and increase efficiency and effectiveness o f public resources;
     3. Promote social inclusion and improve service delivery.

ANNEX I                                      7


17.     To implement this Decree the Government has prepared and submitted detailed
action plans. These action plans, which are highlighted below, have been extensively
discussed at the Cabinet o f Ministers. We seek assistance o f the international community,
particularly the World Bank for their fbll implementation. We also realize that success o f
implementation o f this strategy depends heavily on maintaining macroeconomic stability
and ensuring prudent policies inthe use of oil resources.

Creating non-oil sector economic opportunities andjobs2.

18.     The Decree has instructeddevelopment of:

    0   actions aimed at accelerated development o f non-oil sector in order to ensure
        balanced development o f the country. implement measures to encourage
        investments inthis sector andreport to President o f Azerbaiian Republic quarterly
        on outcomes o f these actions. This is an essential element o f the medium-term
        adjustment strategy o f the Government. As important pre-conditions for
        accelerated regional economic progress and supporting the development of small
        and medium-sized entrepreneurship, infrastructure-related expenditures will be
        given a priority early on inthe process o f utilization o f oil and gas revenues. To
        enhance sustainable growth o f the non-oil sector and private sector development,
        the Government will mainly aim to: (i)     improve the environment for increased
        non-oil trade; (ii)improve the overall business environment for private sector
        development and investment; (iii)    improve financial intermediation and public
        confidence; (iv) enhance corporate governance and financial discipline in the
        financial and the corporate sectors, including state-owned enterprises; (v)
        consolidate reforms in the oil and infrastructure sectors; and (vi) develop a
        regulatory framework and tariff policy for the utilities sector. The optimal tax
        policy will also be crucial inorder to re-activate the inheritedpotential o f the non-
        oil sector. On the other hand, government oil and gas revenues would not serve as
        a direct source for financing o f commercial investments inthe non-oil sector.

 19.      Specific measures that we intend to initiate to support these objectives include:
accelerate privatization o f urban property and introduce financing mechanisms and
mortgages for non-agricultural land; encourage development o f private property markets;
adopt regulations to establish a bonded warehouse scheme; establish a special economic
zone legal framework and promote a first private zone as a pilot project; enhance import
tariff policies; improve the coordination of border agency activities, aiming at the
introduction o f a one-stop approach at border crossing points and further reform the
organization o f the State Customs Committee; introduce andimplement a comprehensive
 Customs automation system on a phased basis and expand implementation o f advance
declaration processing using risk management-based controls across all border agency
procedures; join the revised Kyoto convention and revise the Customs Code, regulations
 and instructions; improve anti-smugglingactivities; and introduce relevant amendments
 and revisions to the other legislation to address remaining gapshconsistencies with the
 Tax Code and implementingregulations adopted inrelationwith it.

  Text ofDecree is underlinedhenceforth.

ANNEX I                                               8



20.        We seek support of IDA for the following actions initiated under the PRSC-I:
(i)preparingamendments to existing laws to ensure standards, policies, andpractices are
inline with WTO mandates, including recognition of EU & US certifications; and (ii)
establishing a strategy for integratedmanagement o f transit. The transit strategy provides
a comprehensive framework for border agencies cooperation and improved efficiency of
transport operators to capitalize on the geographic location of Azerbaijan. Consultations
have taken place with the private sector and the Georgian Authorities. Furthermore, to
improve the legal framework for non-oil investments and streamline processes, the
Government has submittedto Parliament the draft Investment Law. We have started a
Administrative Barriers to Investment study, and held consultations with Entrepreneurs
Council to streamline administrative procedures for privateinvestors.

21.        To address the challenges in the area o f corporate governance and financial
accountability, we will establish a Working Group gathering government and private
sector stakeholders whose objective will be to develop a strategic plan on financial
accountability reform. Enhancing the legislative andregulatory framework and creating a
sustainable institutional infrastructure, together with the related implementation
capacity-in      such areas as financial reporting, accounting, and auditing-are                essential to
the smooth fimctioning o f the financial and corporate sectors. Corporate Boards need to
be established with strong oversight for both state-owned enterprises and private sector
companies listed on the stock exchange.

22.        Another major focus of the reforms i s the strengthening o f institutionalized
incentives for the enactment and rigorous application o f high quality financial reporting,
accounting and auditing standards, through the adoption o f the International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS), and International Standards on Auditing (ISA). With the
support o f the PRSC-I, the Committee will develop a Blue Print (strategic plan) for the
enhancement o f financial reporting, accounting, and auditing requirements and practices
inthe context ofthe wider corporate governance agenda. The Government has enacteda
new Accounting Law and started drafting related secondary legislation. The Law: (i)
mandates the use o fpure IFRS bypublic interest en ti tie^;^ (ii)            mandatesthe use o f robust
National Accounting Standards WAS) by all other entities, including medium sized
SOEs:    and (iii)   establishes an appropriate framework for the govemance o f accounting
standardsettingunderthe responsibility o fthe Ministryo f Finance.

23.         To initiate the implementation o f the Law, the Government will inter alia: (i)
develop and approve the structure and Charter o f an Advisory Council on Accounting;
(ii) therulesdeterminingthecriteriaclassifyingcommercialenterprisesaspublic
    approve
interest entities; (iii)prepare and approve the Program on Application o f National
Accounting Standards before National Accounting Standards come into force in order to


    Public interest entities are defined as entities representing a noticeable public interest because o f their
    activity, their size, their personnel or their legal status (wide range o f shareholders), amongst others
    credit institutions, insurance companies, publicly traded companies, large enterprises, and state-owned
    enterprises.
    Except micro enterprises and natural persons for which a simplified accounting system is sufficient.

ANNEX I                                              9


ensure staged application o f National Accounting Standards; and (iv) prepare the initial
list o f public interest entities which should maintain their accounts and prepare financial
statements in compliance with international accounting standards by January 1, 2008.
Most importantly, we will require that all public interest companies within three months
must submit to the Ministry o f Finance satisfactory certification o f current full
compliance with IFRS as attested by an independent auditor o f international repute;
submit to the Ministry o f Finance o f the Azerbaijan Republic a detailed, time-bound and
costed implementation planto be approvedby the Ministry o fFinance.

24.         Other actions that we will undertake to support the development of non-oil
sector include:

     0   Reform o f the financial sector as stipulated by the Presidential Decree. The main
         challenges facing the country have been identified in the recent joint World
         Bank/International Monetary FundFinancial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP).
         The recommendations include: (i)           addressing weaknesses in the legal, regulatory
         and supervisory framework for financial sector development; (ii)                          removing
         impediments to competition and reducing vulnerability; and (iii)building
         financial infrastructure to facilitate access to finance and markets development,
         especially in rural areas. In line with these recommendations we have adopted a
         "State Program on Development of the National Payment System in Azerbaijan
         Republic for 2005-2007", in accordance to the principles o f fair access and equal
          ~ompetition.~The systems are now fully functioning. We have a new National
         Bank Law and we will ensure effective implementation o f the newly approved
          Law on Banks adheringto Basle principles.

     0    Speed up implementation o f decisions previouslv adopted on development o f
          entrepreneurship, take appropriate measures to address barriers in this field in
          accordance with legislation. Our action plans contain: aligning legal and
          regulatory framework for company registration; computerization o f the Registry
          o f Legal Entities and streamlining registration procedures, reducing discretion and
          adhering to strict time limits for registrations.

     0    Prepare an Action Plan aimed at reduction of unemployment and iob generation.
          K e y reform challenges in this action plan concern policies aimed at creating a
          labor market conducive to job creation; developing efficient labor market
          institutions; and developing selective active andpassive labor market policies that
          facilitate job search andre-insertion.


     0    Draft a state program aimed at socio-economic development program o f regions
          taking into account local resources o f regions and other factors. For this purpose
          we have enacted the Regional Social Economic Development Program (RSEDP).
          The program presents a comprehensive matrix o f specific policy actions and
          investment needs broken down by economic sectors within ten regions with clear

     Other elements of financial infrastructure include a credit riskregistry and registries o f mortgages and
     pledged movable property, which would facilitate credit risk management and, thus, access to credit.

ANNEX I                                       10


       monitorable     outcome      indicators.  The program        envisages     using the
       macroeconomic policies, as well as various sector policies in a coherent manner
       as keypolicy tools for the implementation o f the SPPRED agenda throughout the
       country. We will avoid direct government involvement in commercial activities.
       In terms of implementation of the program the Government will promote: (i)
       inter-firmcooperation; (ii)   innovation, quality, specialization; (iii) chains,
                                                                              supply
       and will put the focus initially on ago-processing. Regional development also
       links directly into many other action plans in the overall strategy o f the
       Government. A secretariat has been established under the Ministry o f Economic
       Development (MED)to monitor implementation.

   0   Implement necessary measures to limit monopolist activity and prevent unfair
       competition in line with existing legislation and Develop proposals to strengthen
       financial discipline o f state-owned enterprises, ensure increase o f their revenues
       and improve efficiency o f costs. Key challenges under this action plan includes
       harmonizing the antimonopoly legal framework internally and with WTO, while
       strengthening capacity of the Antimonopoly Department at the MED. We will
       also restructure major state-owned companies, such as SOCAR, Aztelecom,
       CASPAR, MAL, ADDY Railroad Company and transform them intojoint-stock
       companies, while separating policy, regulatory and commercial functions
       performed in the energy, telecommunications and transport sectors to avoid
       conflicts of interest. The infrastructure sectors are costing the Government large
       amounts o f money interms o f untargetedsubsidies. Yet, physical conditions and
        service quality are poor, especially outside Baku. Improvements in infrastructure
        sectors (inparticular utilities, telecom, and transport) are as critical to expansion
       o f the non-oil sector, as they are for improving the living standards o f the low
       income population(particularly their access to heating and water).

25.       To addressthe main challenges inthis area, and with the support o f IDA under
the PRSC-I, we have drafted a comprehensive Competition Code and reviewed related
legal instruments, including competition, safeguard, and price regulating frameworks to
ensure coherence and consistency. We will approve the Action Plan to remove
inconsistencies and redundancies and ensure WTO compliance.              We are continuing
financial and corporate restructuring o f SOCAR - the USTDAEBRD funded study on
organizational restructuring o f SOCAR i s ongoing, and we are considering the options
for transfer o f holding company activities to a new holding company not affiliated with
SOCAR. Inthe communications sector, the Government has approved a comprehensive
communications sector policy and privatized Bakcell mobile phone company. A State
Program on Communications and Information Technology stipulating private sector-led
marked-based development o f the sector, including the privatization o f AzTelecom, will
soon be submitted to the President. The Regulatory Agency for the Telecommunication
Sector was established on February 1, 2005. Inthe transport sector, the Government has
transferred regulatory functions previously exercised by Caspian Shipping Company to
the Ministry o f Transport. The new Maritime Charter has been approved and we will
publisha statement that BakuSeaPort is open to all domestic and international operators

ANNEX I                                      11


with a fair and transparent process o f tariff settings, and that a similar process will soon
be undertakenregardingthe other transport sectors.

26.       Inadditionto these measureswe will:


   0   Speed up privatization o f state-owned enterprises inaccordance with Second State
       Privatization Proasam (SPPP).
                          -                In this regard, the Government will approve
       amendments to the privatization legal framework to improve procedures for
       transfer o f ownership; monitoring o f investment promises; and pre-privatization
       restructuring. We will review progress achieved on the Second State Privatization
       Program, and will ensure its rapid progress, including private sector participation
       ininfrastructureservices suchas electricity, gas andwater.


   0   Implement appropriate measures to stimulate production o f goods that meet
       intemational standards and their export to intemational markets. Creating a
        framework for quality control and product certification, as well as developing
        specialized and value-added products would be at the core o f such actions sought
       by the Decree. In this respect, Government will prepare an action plan for
        strengthening o f the Agency for Standardization, Metrology and Patents and
        establish a planto develop national capacity for IS09000 quality certifications for
        domestic & foreign products accredited bythe Agency.


    0   Develop, in cooperation with relevant agencies, and submit to President o f
        Azerbaiian Republic a mechanism for carrying out utilitv reform in the countrv.
        The Government needs to address the two problems o f low collection rates for
        utility services and tariff levels below cost recovery, as well as the issue o f
        independent utility regulation. Key challenges for further reforms in the utilities
        sector would focus on: (i)   continued progress strengthening the viability o f the
        electricity, gas, and water companies leading to a steady reduction o f utility
        subsidies; (ii) developing and implementing the utility regulatory framework; and
        (iii)developing andimplementing service quality monitoring standards. The
        Government has developed a medium-term tariffpolicy for the utilities (attached)
        and a regulatory framework, with an independent regulatory agency, accordingto
        the Letter o f Intent o f GOA,signed by the Cabinet o f April 21, 2003, (No. 14d5-
        113). The Government's relevant policy is elaborated inthe Attachment 2. The
        energy sector implicit subsidies were reduced by 21 percent in 2003 and all
        budgetaryorganizations are current with utilitypayments.

Improving governance and increasing efficiency and effectiveness ofpublic resources

27.        We will continue to actively pursue reforms to improve govemance and
increase efficiency and effectiveness o f public resources. The objectives of these reforms
will be to: (i)improve transparency and accountability, and strengthen public
management; (ii)improve public expenditure management processes and strategic
priority setting; (iii) ensure prudent management o f oil revenues; (iv) strengthen public
financial management; and (v) establish a transparent procurement process. Insupport of

                                                                                                 I




ANNEX I                                        12


these objectives, Government will pursue the following reform measures as instructedby
the Presidential Decree:


    0    Develop proposals for completion o f reform o f economic management system,
         including improvement o f the structure of the Cabinet o f Ministers and
         clarification o f responsibilities and authorities of a number o f executive bodies.
         Weaknesses in basic public service delivery, stemming from various governance
         problems and institutional capacity constraints, are among the major impediments
         to poverty reduction in Azerbaijan. One o f the key challenges that the
         Government faces is to improve governance and combat comption by improving
         transparency and accountability inthe public sector. Regarding this dimension o f
         governance, recent surveys indicate some progress, particularly concerning
         corruption andthe business environment. This i s an encouraging sign, providing a
         promising platform for our relentless efforts to improve governance and business
         environment. We have enacted the Anti-corruption Law and established a
         supervisory institution. We have also adopted a State Program on Anti-corruption
         covering 2004-2006 with detailed measures to tackle corruption in a
         comprehensive way and deal with broader governance issues that relate to
         corruption, including administrative reform and sectoral service improvements.
         Many o f the elements o f the State Program are directly supported by the PRSC.
         An important endeavor will be to bringpublic sector accounting to intemational
         standards as stipulated inthe new Accounting Law.

    0    Develop proposals on improving the structure o f the State Budget and Take
         actions to ensure targeted use o f allocations from the State Oil Fund within the
         budget expenditure framework to ensure transparency o f Oil Fund use. The
         proposed action plan for this task includes the following key challenges: (i)
         improving transparency and accountability in public financial management; and
         (ii)improving strategic priority setting and transparency o f medium-term public
         expenditure and investment programs as part o f the overall budget process done
         through the Public Investment Program (PIP) and Medium Term Expenditure
         Framework (MTEF).

28.         To ensure aggregate fiscal discipline, the Government will maintain the
prudent and transparent governance framework o f the State OilFund. We will continue to
publish annually the audited accounts, and quarterly, the financial and budget execution
statements o f the Oil Fund. The effective coordination o f fiscal and monetary policies is
o f strategic importance as an important pre-requisite of maintaining macroeconomic
 stability as large-scale oil revenues start flowing in, and the Government will increase its
coordination efforts in this area. To improve allocative efficiency, the Government will
 strengthen the capacity o f the line ministries to be able to implement the new Budget
 Systems Law (BSL) effectively. Finally, to increase operational eficiency, the
 Government will make stronger links between budgetary allocation decisions and
operational outcomes by moving away from allocating resources based on pre-defined
norms to a more program-based budget model. Implementation o f program budgeting
 and performance management and auditing will be key across all ministries. With the

ANNEX I                                       13


implementation o f the new BSL and introduction o f the MTEF, spending units will have
to be involved much more closely in developing, costing and prioritizing their sector
development programs based on their respective medium term sector resource envelopes,
while identifying keyperformance indicators.

     0   To address these challenges under the PRSC-I, the Government has adopted a
         new budget classification system within the framework o f GFSM. We have also
         submitted the MTEFto Parliamentalong with the 2005 Budget Law, andwe have
         prepared the first PIP. To fully implement the BSL, the Government has: (i)
         approved detailed regulations; (ii) training o f Ministry o f Finance staff in
                                             initiated
         budget formulation and execution; and (iii)started to draft a Budget Process
         Manualbased on the new B S L and modem management practices. We also intend
         to develop a plan to implement program budgeting in ministries and budgetary
         organizations, starting with the Ministry o f Education.

     0   Strengthen control over use o f state budget resources for their intended purposes
         and public procurement, take sanctions against budgetary institutions which are
         not following financial discipline. Based on the analysis o f the Country Financial
         Accountability Assessment (completed in September 2003)              and Country
         Procurement Assessment Review (completed inJune 2003) Azerbaijan's financial
         accountability and procurement frameworks inboth the public and the enterprise
         sectors requires substantial strengthening to ensure transparency and improved
         governance. To strengthen financial accountability and public procurement, the
         Government will continue to strengthen public sector accounting and auditing by
         formulating a program for proper internal audit controls across institutions and
         strengthening capacity in the Chamber o f Accounts (Supreme Audit Institution).
         The respective amendments will be made to the Law on Chamber o f Accounts
         and the Charter o f the Chamber o f Accounts. Similarly, capacity to conduct a
         transparent procurement process would be enhanced.               In particular, the
         Government will take several measures to address conflict o f interest in public
         procurement; rules on tenders; procedures for filing and review o f complaints;
         dissemination o f information andnormative legal acts onpublic procurement; and
         establish andimplement a training strategy for conducting procurement training in
         different parts o fAzerbaijan.

 Promoting social inclusion and improving service delivery

 29.        Azerbaijan's ability to ensure efficient delivery of quality social services
 requires adequate resource management and strengthened technical capabilities. Delivery
 o f social services to the most needy is also being challengedbythe large numbero f IDPs.
 Restructuring and reform o f basic social services are therefore key preconditions for
 improvingthe delivery o f social services to the population ingeneral and to the poor and
 vulnerable groups inparticular.

 30.        We will focus explicitly on a number o f key social sector policies that are
 critical to the success o f the Government's poverty reduction program. The objectives
 will be to: (i) increase quality and access to basic education; (ii)  enhance access to and

ANNEX I                                      14


quality o f primary healthcare services in the short term, and agree on a strategy and
roadmap for health sector reform, and an implementation plan to improve health
financing and efficiency; (iii)  improve effectiveness o f social protection programs; and
(iv) improve poverty and performance monitoring. Insupport ofthese objectives, we will
pursuethe following reformmeasuresas instructedbythe Presidential Decree:

         Develop measures aimed at improvement o f social services provided to
         populationand address existing bottlenecks; Accelerate reform insocial insurance
         system to develop and submit a new draft law on pensions: Develop and
         implement measures to ensure production and import of high quality goods and
         medicines (including improvement o fphysical infrastructure o f quality control) in
         order to protect the health o f people; and Work to improve waPe and pension
         systems in order to improve living standards. Key challenges consist of: (i)
         increasing quality and access to basic education; (ii)
                                                              enhancing access to essential
         drugs and health care services; (iii)improving effectiveness o f social protection
         programs; and (iv) addressingenvironmental concems.

     0   Improve monitoring of dvnamic development o f socio-economic life o f the
         country, implement appropriate measures to timely address existinp problems and
         report to President o f Azerbaiian twice a year on status of actions: and Examine
         implementation status o f national programs adopted during recent years (such as
         SME Development Program (2002-2005), Povertv Reduction and Economic
         Development Program, Application o f Norms envisages in the European Social
         Charter.   Tourism Development         Program    (2002-2005).    Environmentally
         Sustainable Socio-economic Development Program, etc) and President o f
         Azerbaiian Republic should be informedo fthe status o f implementation.

31.        The SPPRED identifies severalmajor directions for education sector reform to
improve equity inaccess, to modernize teaching methods, to motivate teachers by higher
wages, and to ensure that vocational education provides skills appropriate for a market
economy.       To achieve these objectives, the Government will: (i)      improve equity in
general education through provisiono f free textbooks for all students; and financial aid to
poor students;     (ii)
                      improve the quality o f teaching through various means, including
provision o f new technologies and library materials; (iii) improve access to family-based
kindergartens; and (iv) improve operational efficiency o f the education sector mainly
through the introduction o f more flexible budget management systems for schools. In
line with these objectives, the Government has already taken important steps to reform its
 education system, supported in part by the IDA-financed Education APL and PRSC-I.
 These include: strengthening capacity o f MOE for planning and policy analysis,
 evaluation and monitoring, and Education Management Information Systems (EMIS);
 initiation o f program budgeting for the Ministry, appropriating sufficient budget for
provision of core textbooks for students in grades 1-11; and, rehabilitating schools based
 on the State School Construction and RehabilitationPlan. The Government has approved
 a textbook policy, including financing, development, publishing, and distribution o f free-
 of-charge core textbooks. Inline with SPPRED objectives, we have continued to improve
 the curriculums and have developed an Action Plan on teacher re-training. We have also
 approved development programs on "Teacher effectiveness in general school network",

ANNEX I                                      15


"Provision o f ICT in general schools", and "Provision o f education for children in need
for special care".

32.       Inthe health sector, we will continue implementingand scaling up reforms in
primary healthcare, health financing and health workforce policy and planning. Under
the PRSC-I, within the framework of National System o f Health Monitoring project, the
Government has completed the health expenditures study. In addition, the Government
intends to gradually take over the financing of the expanded program on immunization,
while increasing financing for national programs for diabetes, malaria, tuberculosis and
HIV/AIDS, child and maternal health, and healthy lifestyles. To initiate the reform
process, the Government will: (i) re-activate the Health Reform Commission; (ii) up a
                                                                                   set
mechanism whereby a consensus buildingprocess will be launched under its leadership
and inclusive of all stakeholders (professional associations, private sector, consumer
representatives, etc); (iii)
                          and issue ahealth policy reform with a set o frecommendations
andatimetable for implementation.

33.       The Government program will focus on a range of actions aimed at increasing
efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability o f social protection programs. Inthe area of
social insurance, the programincludes linking social insurance payments more closely to
pensions; modernizing and strengthening financial management o f the State Social
Protection Fund (SPF); and moving all social insurance payments administration from
enterprises to the SPF. Contributions under the general public pensions scheme will be
used to only finance pensions of participants under the general scheme. The Government
will draft a new legislationon pensions, which will introduce parametric changes inthe
pension system and closer links between social insurancepayments andpensions.

34.       With regards to social assistance, the Government's program includes: (i)
targeting of social assistance based on eligibility assessment taking into account the
economic and social situation o f the applicants; (ii) modernizingthe capacity o f Ministry
o f Labor and Social Protection o f Population (MoLSPP) to administer targeted social
assistance and social benefits usingcomputerized MIS. We will introduce changesto the
relevant legislation to delineate functions between, and starting from 2006, specify
financing principles of MLSPP and SSPF. The draft framework law on Targeted State
Social Assistance has been submitted to the Cabinet o f Ministers. The Government will
also initiate modernization o f the social insurance and social assistanceadministration by
completing MIS development plans andbegintheir implementation.

35.       To address environmental concerns, we will adopt noms and standards for
clean up of brown fields based on assessment of health risk and completing inventory of
industrialcontamination categorizedby risk exposure andhealth impacts. Inaddition, we
will assign responsibility within the government to develop and implement an
environmental mitigation plan funded fully from the Government's Budget initially and
eventually, also financed through the value resulting from reclamation o f oil, steal, and,
most importantly, sales o f rehabilitated land. We will also initiate implementationo f an
 environmental legacies clean up program of old oil fields and adopt regulations for
corporate compliance with environmental standards (audit, EMPs). Environmental
concerns o f the economic development over the medium-term will present the

ANNEX I                                        16


Government an important challenge for its social policies to remain sustainable. We
would like to address many o f these challengesunder the PRSC program. As a first step,
under the PRSC-I,we have approved ahazardouswaste management strategy.

36.        To establish a proper poverty and performance monitoring mechanism to
provide the Government with regular and reliable information about the reform
outcomes, as well as the poverty situation in the country, the Government program
includes conducting surveys, publishingannualreports, andholding stakeholder meetings
to support reforms andto receive feedback. The existingcoordination mechanisms within
the Government would be better supported by the coordination and reporting framework
built into the SPPREDprocess, including: (i) SPPRED Advisory BoardMeetings
                                                  holding
and annual National Conferences to review the updated poverty profile and to report on
the implementation progress o f various national programs; and (ii)  elaborating further a
set o f specific reliable performance (output) and outcome monitoring indicators for the
SPPRED, including Millennium Development Goals (MDGs); and (iii)            reporting and
publishingthe monitoringindicators with aprogressreport annually. We have approved a
list o f performance indicators to monitor implementation o f SPPRED measures and the
overall reform program. Household Budget Surveys are conducted on a quarterly basis
and their results are published, and we will improve the relevant legal framework to
allow the HBS database to be made available publicly on a timely basis. We have
developed a process for monitoring the implementation o f the overall reform program.
We have also adopted the Law on State Registration o f Legal Entities and State Registry,
drafted it's respective implementing regulations, which will improve and simplify the
process o f registration o f legal entities, includingNGOs. To adopt a new Law on NGOs
(public unions and foundations) as a next step inthis direction, we will create a working
group to develop the draft law. We will also make necessary resources available for
computerization o f a Single Legal Entities Registry, including all types o f commercial
companies, foreign representative offices, public unions, NGOs, and religious
organizations.

Conclusion

37.        Insum, we are advancing rapidlywith awide range of structural reforms aimed
at addressingissues on the development o f the non-oil sectors, strengthening governance
andpromotingequity andsustainability of social protectionprograms. Thesereforms are
particularly important in order to create more jobs and equity in our society. It i s a
balanced program, as it will hrther remove barriers to the development of a private
 sector led economy, while strengthening access to basic education and health and
targetingof social assistanceto the poor andvulnerable.

 38.       The environment for improving policies aimed at poverty reduction has
changed in Azerbaijan since 2001. The renewed efforts at reform in Azerbaijan did not
 stem from a financial needor a need to deal with an external debt problem. The SPPRED
provided an opportunity to initiate important policy measures. We seek to support its
 implementation through the PRSC to deepen the reform measures in some o f the most
politically and socially sensitive areas that affect the poor. This objectives is consistent
with the strategic goals o fthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that we discussedwith

AKNEX I                                  17


the Bank. The measures supported by the PRSC program complement other Bank
assistance programs to Azerbaijan, particularly in the social sectors and infrastructure.
We appreciate IDA'Ssignificant support to our reform program through the proposed
PRSCs and other operations.

                                                                    BakuAprild, 2005


                                            Avaz Alekperov
                                                a . H e
Prime Minister                              Minister of Finance

                                            ElmanRustamov


                                            Governoro f
                                            the NationalBank of Azerbaijan




 Attachments


i




H
xw

0
.y
      '1
      U




4


m




Y
x
E
3
0
Y
w
!
Y



6Q
2
Y


'
0




cu
0


& x



     d
     E




P

E




a
8

       Y




U
X
Ezc
c
0

r(
Y



3Q
BE

d
c


II

Attachment 2 to ANNEX I                       1


                          Azerbaijan Utility Services Sector
                  Medium Term Tariff Policyfor Utility Services

Current Situation

The Government of Azerbaijan in close cooperation with international financial
institutions has started reforms in the utility services sector, new relationship have been
formed between the utility service providers and consumers, achieved some progress and
currently continues activities inthis direction.

Overall, the accelerated economic growth, increasing number o f service and productive
facilities, stricter requirements sought on the volume and quality o f the utility services,
necessitate new and more radical actions and implementation o f additional measures to
address the problems that impact on the socio-economic development o f the country.
This notwithstanding, it is required to take cautious steps in ensuring the efficiency o f
utility services, since the utility services share common and closely inter-related
problems, which requires a comprehensive approach, while the resolution of these
problems could potentially give rise to economic and social consequences.

Hence, the Resolution o f the President o f Azerbaijan Republic approving "The Program
for Enhancing Financial Discipline inthe Energy and Water Sectors" dated March 25th,
2002, #: 893, identified a timeline o f initiated works as well as the respective
implementers and gave a substantial impetus to acceleration of reforms in the utility
sector.    These tasks were further specified in subsequent Decrees "On Measures to
accelerate socio-economic development in Azerbaijan Republic" dated November 24th,
2003, #: 4, "On Ap roval o f the Law o f Azerbaijan Republic on State Budget for 2004"
dated December 27t ,2003, #: 9, "On Approval ofthe State Programfor Socio-Economic
                       f

Development of Regions of Azerbaijan Republic (2004-2008)"             dated February 11th,
2004, #: 24.

Nevertheless, the situation still remains as severe, despite the implementation of relevant
measures to partially improve technical and technological state (rehabilitation of
pipelines, installation of meters, repairing purifying and transmission devices, start o f
 exploitation of new generation and transmission capacities, etc.) of economic units
providingservices inimportant areas ofthe utility services sector, such as gas, electricity,
water supply, wastewater services, etc. The continuous increase o f prices of energy
resources inthe world markets enhances those problems further.

 Significance of transition to new tariffs

 Among the problems of the utility services sector (technical, technological, economic
 etc.) a move towards economically justified tariffs, while of paramount importance,
 serves as a principal criteria for establishment of financial discipline in the sector. The
 problems like a low purchasing and paying power of the population, high level of
 technical losses of entities providing utility services, inadequate accounting, lack of
 meters for most subscribers, cause difficulties in intensifying decision-making, while

Attachment2 to ANNEX I                           2


delaying the move to economically justified tariffs. Generally speaking, the fact that the
tariffs of most o f the utility services for the population are less than their respective costs
by several folds, results in setting the tariffs for other consumer groups at much higher
levels, thus, leading to cross-subsidization, and eventually, deviation from the principles
of fairness in the economy.          This, in tum, constrains the endogenous investment
opportunities and leads to a loss of resources otherwise to be used in the state budget,
violation of financial discipline, higher production costs of enterprises and other
shortcomings.

Inthis respect, the analyses reveal drastic differences between the current level of cost
recovery andthe actual prices ineffect. As such:

Currently the wholesale tariff of Azerenergy is AZM 71 per kwh. Taking into account
the increase o f the price o f imported gas to US$ 60 per 1,000 m 3 starting from the
beginning of 2005, in accordance with initial calculations the wholesale tariff per 1kwh
of electricity will be inthe range of AZM 120-122 including 5% profitability, that is 69-
72%higher thanthe current tariff.

Based on the information from AzerSU, the fill cost of recovery o f 1 m3water and
wastewater are AZM 00.99 and AZM 1.28, respectively.

Inthe revenues and expenditure plano f Azerigaz for 2004, which was approved by the
Azerbaijan Republic Cabinet of Ministers, the cost of delivery of gas to consumers was
established as AZM 40,991 per 1,000 m3.

There is also a large difference between the costs of heating energy and the current
tariffs. For the past years, heating energy tariffs were not changed despite of the
 significant increase of prices o f mazut, natural gas, water, wages and stock that affects
the costs ofheating energy.

 In accordance with the decree o f Baku Executive Committee dated July 22, 1999 No.
 621, the monthlyheating energy tariffs inBakuwere established as follows for groups of
 consumers.

      Consumer Groups                         Quantity                     Tarvfs, AZM
 Residentials                         Per 1m2 of anartment                      250
 Budget institutions                   Per 1m2 ofbuilding                       600
 Other consumers                       Per 1m2 ofbuilding                      1,100


 Lower residential tariffs than recovery costs of utility services lead to significant
 subsidization of consumers o f utility services (electricity, gas, water, and wastewater)
 every year. However, the fact that these subsidies are provided implicitly results in
 further worsening o f the viability o f the utility companies, which are unable to obtain a
 minimum of required resources for maintenance and investments.                    Infrastructure

Attachment2 to ANNEX I                          3


maintenance is substantially deferred, the risk of systemic collapse increases, and
therefore, the quality of utility services declines.

Long-term sustainability and viability of utility companies depend on the ability to cover
costs from their revenues, which is possible only through elimination of subsidies inthe
sector, tariffs enabling the recovery o f the full cost incurred by these companies, enabling
financial viability byprovidingfor sufficient resources for investment.

Measurescurrentlyunderimplementation

The issues to be addressed are economic regulation of electricity, natural gas, water,
wastewater and heating services, a need to increase the reliability and quality of services
provided to the consumers of these services and to ensure the protection of their rights,
implementation of institutional adjustment and restructuring measures, which meet the
international standards.

The Presidential Decree dated December 29,2004 on the State Budget of the Republic of
Azerbaijan for the year 2005, paragraph 6, subparagraph 3, instructs to prepare proposals
on the introduction of an improved tariffs system to ensure effective use of energy
resources, increase the reliability of power supply to consumers and enhance the financial
situation of the energy sector.

The Government of Azerbaijan Republic has embarked on a program of economic
reforms inthe framework of the program to reduce poverty and resolve current and future
problems.     This program includes improving the utility services sector, enabling the
private sector participation in this area, enhancing the financial discipline in the utility
sector, increasing the service quality and establishing the efficient regulatory legal
framework.      The Government of Azerbaijan communicated a Letter of Intent to the
World Bank inthis regard, where it elaborated its principles. The Letter of Intent covers
objectives and principles on the utility services and aims at preparation and approval of
the Program on developing institutional mechanisms, which would ensure submission of
the relevant draft legislation to Parliament.

 "Nexant, Inc." provided consultancy services to the Government of Azerbaijan on
developing the regulatory legal framework and institutional capacity inelectricity, natural
gas and water sectors funded through the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
 (PPIAF), multi-donor technical assistance agency aiming at supporting the developing
countries to improve the quality of infrastructure with private sector participation.
Proposals on institutional adjustment in the sector, on establishing a new regulatory
 agency and revising the legal framework have been developed and submitted to relevant
 organizations.

 Inaddition, it is currently necessary to develop and implement a medium-term tariff
policy embracing the immediate timeframe and consolidating the stages of transition to
 economically justified tariffs, which would ensure financial discipline, higher service
 quality as well as investment sources.

Attachment 2 to ANNEX I                       4


Inrecent years, while increases inwages (including the minimumwage) andpensions
have improved the ability of the population to pay higher prices for utility services,
however, there is need to ensure that utility services provided to consumers within
Azerbaijan are affordable. As the economy continues to expand, the purchasing power of
the population will continue to increase and, with it, the capacity to pay higher prices for
utility services will increase. In addition, the development and implementation of a
targeted social safety net as well as the installationof meters will allow implementing the
tariffpolicy that is aimed to reach cost recovery for provided services. The establishment
of a targeted social safety net will ensure that the most vulnerable continue to be able to
afford essential utility services as prices rise towards, and eventually reach, hll cost
recovery levels.

Taking into account these considerations, the government has taken the initial steps of
increasing prices of gas andwater.

In order to prevent the drastic increase of price the delivery costs o f Azerigaz was
approved to be at the level of AZM 30,000 per 1000m3.The overall cost of recovery of
natural gas, including the operational costs o f production, processing and delivery of
natural gas is inthe range of AZM 140,000 - 150,000.

                Gas TariffIncreasesEffectiveas ofNovember 2nd,2004
I                                                             AZMper 1000 cubic meters
 Customer Groups                                      1OldTariff        IApproved Tariff      1
                                                                         (includingVAT)
 Residential Customers                                          35,560               81,000
                                                                83.200
 Other (Budget, SOEs, commercial users, etc.)                                      236,000    1
                                                              236.000   1

 The increase of tariffs will lead to improvements in the financial-economic activities of
 Azerigaz JSC and elimination of subsidies extended to the joint-stock company.

 Starting from January 1, 2005 the Government, after the review of water prices,
 established new tariffs o f AzerSU for the areas ofthe former ARWC as follows:

                                                                        AZMoer 1m3
        Customer group                                        Old            New
                                                           (w/o VAT)      (w/o VAT)

            Domestic                                             185            370
            Budget funded entities andequal to those             900          1,200
             Other customers                                   2,500
                                                               5,300          2,700
             Producersofbottledwater                          42,000         42,000
         Technical water                                       1.200          1.200

Attachment 2 to ANNEX I                        5



For new tariffs the customer groups of "Trade and services" and "Industry" were merged
in one group "Other customers". Future increases in water tariffs will be linked to
improvements inthe performance ofAzerSU andregulations of the power energy tariffs.

At the same time, the government is cognizant ofthe importance o f accurately measuring
the quantities o f electricity, gas andwater delivered to state consumers. Currently, actions
to approve and start the implementation of a programto install meters for all consumers
of electricity, gas and water are initiated.

Accordingly, there are precise instructions to the relevant institutions: (i)      to prepare
proposals on the costs o f installation of meters required for electricity, gas and water
supply services as per the Presidential Decree dated December 29, 2004 on the State
Budget of the Republic of Azerbaijan for 2005 year, paragraph 17; and (ii)       to ensure the
installation o f meters, advance these efforts in accordance with the established
completion dates as per the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers dated January 10,
2005, No. 8 andJanuary 12,2005 No. 13.

MediumTermTariff Policy andEnvisagedMeasures

It is provisioned to resolve the following problems throughthe approval of the Medium
Term Tariff Policy with implementation period o f 2005-2010:


    0   The implementation o f the Medium Term Tariff Policy taking into the
        consideration the problems stated above inhis document;

    0   Untilthe end o f the implementation period for the Medium Term Tariff Policy,
        increase tariffs for utility services ina staged fashion that gives full consideration
        to the affordability o fthese tariffincreases;

        Recognize the connections between the costs of the various utility services (for
        example, taking into account that the costs for water and wastewater services are
        heavily influenced by the cost of electricity), increase o f electricity tariffs
        together with the tariffs for water and wastewater in order to ensure that the
        objective of full cost recovery can be achieved;

    0   Discontinue financial support to utility entities from the State Budget;

        Ensure the sufficiency of tariffs for all utility services to allow full cost recovery,
        and the financial viability o fthe utility entities;

    0   Motivate restructuring of various utility entities and enterprises, improvement of
        corporate governance, enhancement of quality o f services, reduction of losses and
        savings on consumption from the perspectives of resolution of tariffs issues;

Attachment 2 to ANNEX I                    6


   0  Introduce on the basis o f successful experience o f similar reforms in other
      countries the mechanism for targeted social assistance to low-income families and
      appliance o f such mechanism to eliminate the negative impact o f tariffs increase;


   0  Review tariffs for power supplyuntilJanuary 2006 incase o f the establishment o f
      targeted socia1assistance mechanism;including:


      0   Regulationo fwholesale prices andtransmission tariffs for Azerenergy;


      0   Regulation o fretail prices for BARMEK andBAYVA;


      0   Regulations o f heating energy tariffs.


   0  Implement the review o f tariffs in the following areas on the basis o f the
      economic justification and cost recovery:

      0  Regulation o ftariffs for drinkingwater (by various regions);


      0  Regulation o f tariffs for wastewater (by various regions).


                                                                              Page 2 of 2


                  CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Azerbaijan

                                   Azerbaijan
                                Statement o f IFC's
                          Heldand Disbursed Portfolio
                                As of 0212812005
                             (InUSDollarsMillions)

                                          Held                Disbursed

FY Approval Company           Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
        2004 Amerada Hess ...   1.68       0    0  1.68 1.68     0     0  1.68
1998104      Azerb. JV Bank        0     0.4    0    0     0   0.4     0      0
        2003 Azerigazbank        1.2       0    0    0   1.2     0     0      0
        2004 BP CorpN A           10       0    0    10    10    0     0    10
        1998 Baku Coca Cola     0.58       0    0     0 0.58     0     0      0
        1999 Baku Hotel         5.83       0    0     0 5.83     0     0      0
        2002 MFB Azerbaijan        0     1.75   0     0    0  1.75     0      0
        2003 Rabitabank          1.2       0    0     0   1.2    0     0      0
        2004 Statoil            8.75        0   0  8.75  2.5     0     0   2.5
        2004 Unocal - Unio...     10        0   0    10    10    0     0     10

        Total Portfolio:       39.24    2.15    0 30.43 32.99 2.15     0 24.18


         Approvals PendingCommitment
                               Loan Equity Quasi Partic
                                       ~




        2001 Azer JV Increase      0     0.06   0     0

  Total PendingCommitment:         0     0.06   0     0

                                                                                                                     ANNEX111
                                    Azerbaijan K e y Economic Indicators
                                                 -                                                                    Page 1of 2
                                                                                      ~             ~    ~~




                                                      Actual                Estimate                 Projected
              Indicator                    2000    2001     2002     2003    2004       2005    2006          2007     2008
Nationalaccounts(as YOof GDP)
Gross domestic producta                      100      100       100     100      100       100        100         100      100
 Oil and Gas GDP                              32       35        34      33       33        35        44           52      56
 Non-Oil and Gas GDP                          68       65        66      67       67        65        56           48      44
   Agriculture                                 17       16       15      14       12         12        10           9        8
   Industry (non-oil)                          14       12       16      20       22        21         18          16       15
   Services                                   38       37        35      32       33        32         21          23       21


Total Consumption                             79       76        75      75       61        63         53          45       39
Gross domestic fixed investment               23       23        34      51       63        41         34          20       14
 Government investment                         3        2         6       6        4         5            5         5        4
 Private investment                           20       21        28      45       59        36         29          16       10


EX~OI~S (GNFS)~                               39       41        43      43       50        49         55          63       67
Imports (GNFS)                                38       37        50      67       74        54         42          28       21

Gross domestic savings                        21        24       25      25       39        37         47          55       61
Gross national savings'                        16       19        19     22       33        29         36          47       56

Memorandum items
Grossdomestic product                        5273    5708      6236    7138     8523     10819   14177          18734    22891
(US$ million at current prices)
GNIper capita (US$, Atlas method)             610      660       720    820       950     1140       1460        1870     2380

Real annual growth rates (%, calculatedfrom 2003 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market p          11.1      9.9      10.6    11.2     10.9      14.8       20.5        22.4     16.2
 Gross Domestic Income                       29.4      4.8       9.8    17.7      2.9      28.9       18.6        52.7     41.0

Real annual per capita growth rates ("h,calculated from 2003 prices)
 Grossdomestic product at market p           10.2      9.0       9.7    10.3     10.1      13.9       19.5        21.4     15.3
 Total consumption                           10.0      8.9       9.2    11.9      2.9       3.9       10.1         3.7      1.8
 Private consumption                         12.2     10.4       8.6    17.3      2.4       1.7        8.7         4.3      2.0

Balanceof Payments(US! millions)
 ~xports(GNFS)~                              2059     2336      2667   3055     4235      5321       7841       11867    15368
    Merchandise FOB                          1799     2046      2305   2625      3743     4774       7220       11076    14444
  Imports (GNFS)~                            2024     2130      3121   4768      6310      5796      5998        5186     4747
    Merchandise FOB                          1539     1465      1823   2723      3581      3814      3901        3580     3425
 Resource balance                              35      206      -454  -1712     -2076      -475       1843       6681    10621
 Net current transfers                         73       77        70     134      192       223       254         281      325
 Current account balance                     -187      -50      -769  -2021     -2588     -1281       433         5218    9577

 Net private foreign direct investmen         149      299      1048   2353      3048      1430       379        -2888   -1199
 Long-term loans (net)                        347      121        32       1       38       175       499          348     276
   Official                                   245      140       167     115       17       151        127         123      116
   Private                                    102      -19      -135    -115       21        24       372          225      160
 Other capital (net, incl. errors& ommissic   -42      -63       -90     -96      -36          0           0         0        0
 Change inreservesd                          -266     -307      -221    -237     -463      -324      -1311       -2678   -8655

Memorandum items
Resource balance ("76 o f GDP)                0.7       3.6      -7.3  -24.0     -24.4      -4.4      13.0        35.7     46.4
Real annual growth rates ( 2004 prices)
 Merchandise exports (FOB)                    7.0      34.1      -3.2    5.6      18.3      27.3      52.8        29.2     34.6
   Primary                                    4.4      40.8      -5.1    0.9      11.6      36.3      58.8        31.8     36.8
   Manufactures                              32.7     -15.2     41.8    60.9      59.0     -14.9       8.0          1.4      2.7
 Merchandise imports (CIF)                    9.7      -1.9      20.4   51.9      19.8       6.9       0.7         -7.3     -6.8
                                                                                                           (Continued)

                                Azerbaijan KeyEconomicIndicators
                                                 -                                                           ANNEX111
                                                    (Continued)                                               Page2 of 2



                                                     Actual                  Estimate           Projected
               Indicator                2000      2001        2002     2003   2004     2005   2006     2007    2008

Publicfinance(as % of GDP at market prices)e
 Current revenues                         21.2        18.7       27.3    27.1    27.3    26.8   24.9     28.5    51.7
 Current expenditures                      17.8       16.6       22.1    22.7    22.1    20.6   18.0     14.5     12.8
 Current account surplus (+) or defic      3.4         2.1        5.2     4.4     5.1     6.2    6.9     14.0    38.9
 Capital expenditure                       3.0         2.1        5.6     6.1     4.5     4.8    4.9      4.2     4.3
 Foreign financing                         3.5         1.o        3.1     3.0     1.6     1.7    1.9      0.9     0.7

Monetaryindicators
 M2/GDP                                    11.0       12.9       13.0    14.5    17.9    17.7   14.6     14.1     14.0
 Growth of M2(%)                          27.1        31.7       14.4    29.8    47.5    24.7   24.1     24.6     18.3
 Private sector credit growth /            -9.9      47.0        19.9   141.3    152.4  107.7     ...      ...     ...
 total credit growth (%)

Priceindices(2004 -100)
 Merchandise export price index           77.9        66.1       76.9    82.9    100.0  107.0   95.3     89.1     93.7
 Merchandise import price index           92.4        89.7       92.7    91.1    100.0   99.6  101.1     100.1   102.8
 Merchandise terms of trade index          84.3       73.7       83.0    91.0    100.0  107.4   94.2     89.0     91.1
 Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)'           131.0      120.6        109.9  100.4    100.0

 Real interest rates
 Consumer price index (% change)            1.8         1.5       2.8     2.2      6.7    7.6    5.0      5.0      5.0
 GDP deflator ('YOchange)                  12.5        2.5        3.2     4.0      7.7   10.3    8.8       7.9     5.1


a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequitedtransfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMFresources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." Anincrease inUS$/LCUdenotes appreciation.

                                                                                                                                         ANNEX IV
                                                                                                                                          Page 1of 2

                                      Azerbaijan at a glance
                                                                       Europe &     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                      Central     middle-
                                                        Azerbaijan         Asia     income          Developmentdiamond'
                                                                                                 ~


2003
Population, mid-year (millions)                                    8.2     473        2,655                      Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                820     2,570       1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                                                                         T
                                                                   6.7    1,217       3,934

Average annual growth, 1997.03
Population(%)                                                      0.8      0.0         0.9
Labor force (%)                                                    1.8      0.2         1.2         GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                                    per                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1997.03)                                                capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                   50
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                            50        63          50
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                   65        69          69                             1
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                           76        31          32
Child malnutrition (% ofchildrenunder 5)                           17                    11               Accessto improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                 78        91          81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                            3          10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)               93       103         112            -Azerbaijan
    Male                                                           93       104         113            -Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                         92       102         111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1983           1993     2002        2003         Economlcratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                                 4.0      6.2          7.1
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                     21.8      32.1        49.1
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                                  57.4      42.8        42.8                          Trade
Gross domestic savingdGDP                                          3.2      24.7        25.1
Gross national savingsiGDP                                         4.9      19.6        20.8
Current account balancelGDP                                                -12.3       -28.3
Interest paymantsiGDP                                              0.0       0.4         0.3        Domestic                         Investment
Total debffGDP                                                     0.9      23.8        23.5        savings

Totaldebt service/exports                                                    5.9         7.5
Present value of debWGDP                                                    17.8                                         1
Present value of debffexports                                               38.6
                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                         1983-93 1993.03          2002     2003      2003.07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                                   4.9          10.6     11.2        16.0             -Azerbaijan
GDP per capita                                        3.9          9.7      10.4        15.1             -Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                  ..     10.9          16.7     -4.4        29.3


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

 (% of GDP)                                                                                       '
Agriculture                                                        28.5     15.0        14.3        1w
                                                                                                     8o
 Industry                                                          33.8     50.2        54.5
    Manufacturing                                                  29.0     18.8        23.3         40
 Services                                                ........  37.7     34.8        31.1         20
                                                                                                  ,   o
 Privateconsumption                                                66.2     62.9        63.2       1-20
 General governmentconsumption                                     30.1     12.4        11.7
 Importsof goods and services                            ......    76.0     50.0        66.8                   -GDI           " O l G D P


                                                 1983-93 199343             2002        2003
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                             Growthof exports and imports (%)           I
 Agriculture                                                        3.4       6.4        5.6
 Industry                                                           8.4     28.6        18.1        40
    Manufacturing                                                                                   20
 Services                                                ..        18.6       2.5        6.9         0

 Privateconsumption                                                 8.4       8.6       17.3
 General governmentconsumption                                      8.8       3.1         6.6
 Gross domestic investment                               ..        35.0     84.2        71.2                 -Exports         "Ollmports
 Importsof goods and services                            ..        16.0     48.4        43.5



    The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold)compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
     be incomplete.

                                                                                                                 ANNEXIV
                                                                                                                  Page 2 of 2


                                                                                                          Azerbaijan

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1983     1993   2002    2003
Domesticprices                                                           Inflation(YO)                                  I
(% change)
Consumerprices                                 1,129.0    2.8     2.2
ImplicitGDP deflator                      ....  747.6     3.2     4.0
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                           27.3    27.5
Currentbudget balance                                     5.2     4.4                                                   I
Overallsurplus/deficit                                   -0.5    -1.2  I         WGDPdeflator         +CPI


TRADE
                                        1983     1993   2002    2003
(USmillions)                                                             Exportand Importlevels ( U S mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                     2,305  2,625     3,000 7
  Crude oil                                             1,614   1,836
  Petroleumproducts                                      432      402    2,500

  Manufactures                                            153     279    2,000

Total imports(cif)                                      1,823   2,723    1,500

  Food                                                    238     238    1,wo
  Fueland energy                                          336   1,109      500
                                                                                                                         I
  Capital goods                                           519     519        0

Exportprimindex(1995=100)                                 128     157            97   98    98   00     01    02    03

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                                80      85                   Exports        0Imports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                                  161     185

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1983     1993    2002    2003   I
(US$ millions)                                                            Currentaccount balanceto QDP (%)               I
Exportsof goods and services                            2,667   3,055      0
Importsof goods and services                            3,121   4,768     -5
Resourcebalance                                          -454  -1,712    -10
Net income                                               -386    -442    -15
Net current transfers                                      70     134    -20
Currentaccount balance                                   -769  -2,021    -25
Financing items (net)                                     990   2,257    -30
Changes in net reserves                                  -221    -237    -35
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)                      721     803
Conversion rate (DEC,/ocal/US$)            ..     39.5 4,860.8 4.91I.2

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1983      1993   2002    2003
 (US$millions)                                                             Compositionof 2003 debt ( U S mill.)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed                  36   1,483   1,681
  IBRD                                               0      0        0
  IDA                                                     314     422                F. 15fi

Total debtservice                                         170     245
  IBRD                                                      0        0
  IDA                                                       2    3.172
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Oficial grants                                     0      18      20
  Officialcreditors                                  0     178     102
  Private creditors                                  0     -62     -49
  Foreigndirect investment
  Portfolioequity
World Bank program
  Commitments                                               69      75     A IBRD                         E -Bilateral
   Disbursements                                            57      75     B IDA      D-Other multilateral F -Private
   Principalrepayments                                       0       1     C IMF
                                                                             ---                           G -Short-term
   Net flows                                                57      74
   Interestpayments                                          2       2
   Nettransfers                                             55      72

 DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                              4/2/05

                                                                                                                      ANNEX V
                                                                                                                     Page 1of 1



                                     Azerbaijan Key ExposureIndicators
                                                    -


                                                            Actual                   Estimate             Projected
               Indicator               1999       2000    2001      2002     2003    2004       2005    2006    2007   2008

Total debt outstandingand              1043.0   1272.8    1266.0    1483.0   1680.8  1543.9     1608.9  1678.6  1763.7  1858.6
disbursed(TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements (US$m)a              355.7      281.9    41.5       115.7    81.1     103.3     54.9   70.2     86.5    95.6


Total debt service (TDS)                 85.1     181.8    132.4      170.2   245.0     171.5    157.0   131.0   117.7  112.0
(US$m)a


Debtanddebt serviceindicators
(%)


  TDO/XGSb                                76.1      58.6    51.0       51.7    51.6       34.5    28.4    20.3     14.1    11.3
  TDO/GDP                                 22.8      24.1    22.2       23.8    23.5       18.1     14.9   11.8     9.4      8.1
  TDSiXGS                                  6.2       8.4      5.3       5.9      7.5       3.8      2.8    1.6      0.9     0.7
  Concessional/TDO                        28.8      30.9    36.0       46.3    52.7       30.7    31.1    31.8     30.0   28.3


IDA exposureindicators(%)
  IDA DS/publicDS                          1.7       1.1       1.5       1.5     1.7        3.1     4.9    6.2      6.9     7.2
  PreferredcreditorDS/public              49.4      49.6     59.7      55.6     54.6      59.6     60.9   62.8     60.4    49.7
  DS(%)'
  IDA DS/XGS                               0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1        0.1      0.1    0.1     0.1     0.1
  IBRD TDO Ws$mId                            0         0         0         0       0          0        0      0       0       0
    Ofwhichpresentvalue of
    guarantees(US%m)                         0         0         0         0       0          0        0      0       0       0
  Share of IBRDportfolio (`h)                0         0         0         0       0          0        0      0       0       0
  IDA TDO vs$m)d                         199.0     216.0   235.0      314.0    422.0     493.0    525.0   559.8   555.0   550.3


IFC (US$m)
  Loans                                             116       101         73      43         57      64
  Equity andquasi-equity /c                            3         3         3       3          3        3


MIGA
  MIGA guarantees(US$m)                               65        41        38      33



a. Includespublic andpublicly guaranteeddebt, privatenonguaranteed, useof IMF creditsandnet short-
   termcapital.
b. "XGS" denotes exportsofgoods and services,includingworkers' remittances.
c. Preferredcreditors are definedas IBRD,IDA, the regionalmultilateraldevelopmentbanks, the IMF,and the
   Bank for InternationalSettlements.
d. Includespresentvalue ofguarantees.
e. Includesequity andquasi-equitytypes of bothloanand equityinstruments.


                                                                     ANNEXVI



             Azerbaijan-ProposedPovertyReductionSupportCredit

                       Timetableof Key ProcessingEvents




1. Time taken to prepare:                 20 months
2. Preparedby:                            Government ofAzerbaijan
                                          with assistanceofIDA staff
3. IdentificatiodDiscussionMission        Septembermecember2003
4. Pre-appraisal                          January-Feb.2004
5. Working levelReview Meeting            Feb. 18,2004
6. OC Review Meeting                      May 7,2004
7. Appraisal                              February2,2005
8. Negotiations                           March23,2005
9. BoardPresentation                      May 17,2005


                                                                                     ANNEX VI1
                                                                                       Page 1of 6

Public InformationNotice (PIN) No.05/6                              International Monetary Fund
January 21,2005                                                     700 19thStreet, NW
                                                                    Washington, D.C. 20431USA

 IMFConcludes2004 Article IV ConsultationwiththeAzerbaijanRepublic

OnDecember 22,2004, the ExecutiveBoardo f the International MonetaryFund(IMF)
concluded the Article IV consultation with the Azerbaijan Republic.'

Background

A three-year arrangementunder the PRGF, inan amount equivalent to SDR 80.45 million
(50 percent o fquota) was approved on July 2,2001. Four disbursementsunderthis
arrangementhavebeenmadethrough December 2003.

Economic developments inAzerbaijan inrecent years havebeencharacterized by strong
growth andlow inflation. Real GDP grew by an annual averageo f over 10percent during
2000-03, drivenby oil-sector FDIandrelated spillover effects inthe construction and
transportation sectors, substantial gains inagriculture following landreform inthe mid-
1990s, androbust growth innon-oil exports (primarilyagriculture and chemical products).
Inflationremained low, despite the recent pick up. The real effective exchange rate, which
depreciatedby 11percent in2003, hasremained broadly stable in2004. As o f end
September2003, the gross internationalreserveso fthe Nationalbanko fAzerbaijan (ANB)
amountedto US$952 million, providingfor over 4.1 months o fprospective non-oil import
coverage, andthe deposits o fthe State OilFundo fAzerbaijan (SOFAZ) reached around
US$900 million.

Fiscal policy was moderately expansionary in2003, but tightenedin2004 due to lower-
than-budgeted expenditure and strong performance intax revenue, reflectingthe positive
impact o ftax administration reforms as well as tax policy changes. As a result, the 2004
non-oil deficit as a share o fnon-oil GDP is now expected to be lower than previously
projected. The 2005 budget targets a non-oil deficit o f 16.8 percent ofnon-oil GDP, which
i s 2.4 percentagepoints higher thanthe expected 2004 outcome, but still well below the
estimated long-run sustainable level. While the share o f wages intotal spendingis
relativelyhighandrising, reflectingexcessive government employment, the level o fpublic
sector wages i s still low.

Monetary and credit aggregatesexpandedrapidly in2003 andthe first ninemonths o f 2004,
following the AM's unsterilized purchases o f foreign exchangeinflows to resist nominal
appreciation. Together with the impact o f strong government wage increasesinthe second
halfof 2003, this contributed to an acceleration ininflationto 6.8 percent at end-April
2004. To slow the growth inmonetary aggregates, startinginMarch, the ANB allowed the
nominal exchangerate to appreciatemodestly, andbeganselling ANB bills. These steps
helpedslow reserve money growth andinflation declined to 4.9 percent at end-September.
Utilizationo fANB bills as an instrument for sterilizationshould help the ANB to control
inflation, which picked up inOctober largely due to one time factors.

                                                                                      ANNEX VI1
                                                                                      Page2 of 6

Deposit growth was nearly 70percent inthe 12 months through end-September 2004,
leading to a significant increase inbanklending, albeit from a low base. Nonperforming
loans increased slightly at end-2003 relative to end-2002, before declining inthe first half
o f 2004. Nominal Interest rates have continued to decline.

Balance o fpayment developments remained positive in2003 andthe first halfo f 2004.
The current account deficit increasedto nearly 30 percent o f GDP in2003, fromjust over
12 percent in2002, andis expected to decline only modestly in2004, due to oil-related
imports financed byFDI.Non-oil exports grew bynearly 45 percent. Public andpublicly
guaranteed external debt inpercent o f GDP is projected to decline to 18 percent by end-
2004 and 2005, comparedto 20 percent at end-2003.

Structural reforms, which slowed inlate 2003 and early 2004, accelerated again recently.
The authorities adopted a long-term oil revenue management strategy, which is consistent
with a sustainable use o foil wealth and growth innon-oilsectors, as well as maintenance o f
macroeconomic stability. The 2005 budget was based on this strategy. The new Banking
System Law is a substantial improvement over the previous one, allowing the authorities to
implement many o fthe Base1Core Principles' recommendationsby amending relevant
ANB regulations. The newly adopted NationalBank Law is consistent with international
best practices and calls for higher transparency, improved corporate governance and
strengthened ANB independence inbankingsupervision. The authorities' recent decisionto
adjust domestic prices o f energy products and commit to review and adjust these prices as
necessary, at least once a year, is an important step towards reduction o f energy-related
subsidies and improvement of efficiency inthe energy sector.

The first annual report o f Azerbaijan's State Program for Poverty Reduction and Economic
Development, reflecting extensive consultationwith civil society, was completed inM a y
2004. While some progress has been made inalleviating poverty andreducing the
disparities inincome distribution, combating poverty remains a key challenge in
Azerbaijan.

Azerbaijan accepted the obligations o f Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and4 effective
November 30,2004, and i s committed to maintain an exchange system free o f restrictions
inmakingpaymentsandtransfers for current internationaltransactions.

Executive Board Assessment

Directors commended the authorities for Azerbaijan's strong macroeconomic performance
inrecent yearsreflectedindouble-digit broad-based GDPgrowth; risinggross international
reserves and savings inthe Oil Fund; declining external debt ratios; and relatively low
 inflation. Directors noted that, while this positive outcome is inpart attributable to
 favorable external factors, including highoil prices and large oil-related FDI, it also reflects
prudent financial policies and some progress instructural reforms. Directors expressed
 concern, however, that-despite    the highreal GDP growth-the      incidence o fpoverty
 remains high.

                                                                                     ANNEX VI1
                                                                                     Page3 of 6

Directors agreed that the mainchallenge facing the Azerbaijan authorities over the medium-
and long-term is to manage effectively a large but temporary surge inoil revenue. Inthis
context, they welcomed the recent adoption of a long-term strategy for the use o f oil
revenue, which calls for maintaining oil wealth constant inreal terms and limitingannual
fluctuations innon-oil fiscal deficits. Establishing a sound, transparent fiscal framework
was seen as essential for enabling the country's oil wealth to support the sustainable
development of the non-oil sector andpoverty reduction. Inthis connection, Directors also
underscored the need to strengthen the implementation ofthe structural agenda, which aims
at reducing rigidities, diversifying the economy, and creating an investor-friendly
environment. They attached particular importance to enhancing reforms inthe financial and
energy sectors and improvinggovernance.

Directors supported the government's decision to increase non-oil fiscal deficits gradually
over the next three years, consistent with the oil revenue management strategy, as well as
with macroeconomic stability andexpenditure implementationcapacity. They also
emphasized that the planned increases inthe non-oil fiscal deficits over the medium term
should involve a combination of expenditure increases inphysical andhumancapital, as
well as tax cuts targeted to non-oil sectors, inorder to improve the competitiveness of
Azerbaijan's economy. Furthermore, Directors urged the authorities to design and
implement targeted social assistance, and increase pro-poor government spending to
cushionvulnerable groups against the adverse impact ofreforms. Inaddition, they
underscored the need for a comprehensive civil service reform to ensure a steady increase
inwages while containingthe wagebill.

Directors noted the government's approval ofrevenue and expenditure plans for major
state-owned enterprises in2004 andthe authorities' commitment to add the State Oil
Companyofthe Azerbaijan Republic to the list ofmonitored enterprises in2005. They
encouraged the authorities to use these plans to strengthen monitoringofthese enterprises
andtake necessary steps to improve their financial performance, inparticular inthe energy
sector. Directors stressed the need to improve financial discipline andtransparency instate-
owned enterprises, inorder to reduce continuing quasi-fiscal subsidies to them.

Directors were encouraged by recent progress inreducing gaps between domestic and
worldmarket energy prices. However, they notedthat related fiscal andquasi-fiscal
subsidies remained high, despite the significant progress made inrecent years. Inthis
regard, Directors were encouraged bythe authorities' commitment to review domestic
energy prices at least once a year inthe context o f the annual budget process, with an
objective of gradually aligning them with world market levels. Some Directors, however,
urged the authorities to consider the adoption of an automatic price adjustment mechanism
while mitigating any adverse effects on the poor.

Directors were encouraged by the progress made inimplementing Azerbaijan's State
Program for Poverty Reduction andEconomic Development (SPPRED), including the
preparation o f a Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework and Public InvestmentProgram in
 support of the SPPRED. They noted, however, that links betweenthe SPPRED objectives
 andthe annual budget shouldbe strengthened, andrecommended the adoption o fa

                                                                                  ANNEX VI1
                                                                                   Page4 of 6

comprehensive strategy to address the current weaknesses inearly 2005.

Directors welcomed Azerbaijan's participation inthe Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative, but notedthat limitedprogresshasbeenmade towardimproving governance in
other areas. They consideredthat corruption remains a significant probleminAzerbaijan.
Directors, therefore, encouragedthe authorities to fully implementthe recent Law on
FightingCorruptionandAnti-Corruption Decree. Inthis regard,they urgedthe authorities
to complete the separationof commercial andregulatory functions ofpublic enterprises and
ministries, improve the hctioningo f the courts, reduce redtape, and expeditiously tackle
monopolistic tendencies incertain markets.

Directors agreedthat the use o fthe exchange rate as anominal anchor has served
Azerbaijan well, andthe overallmix o f financial policies hasbeen appropriate. Looking
forward, they stressed that the plannedincreasesinnon-oil deficits inthe mediumterm are
likely to intensifyreal appreciation pressures.Givenlimitedsterilization capacity, Directors
recommendedaccommodating these pressuresthrough nominalexchangerate appreciation,
which will bekeyto achieving the authorities' objective o fmaintaining a low inflationrate.

Directors welcomed the continued remonetization o fthe economy, which likelyreflects
macroeconomic stability andincreasedconfidence inthe bankingsector. At the same time,
they expressedconcernthat rapidcredit growth associatedwiththis process could
overwhelmbanks'ability to evaluate credit risks. Directors therefore urgedthe authorities
to strengthenbankingsupervision to ensurethat this rapidcredit growth does not adversely
affect the quality ofbanks'loanportfolios.

Directors welcomed recent progress infinancial sector reforms, including the adoption o f
the BankingSystem Law andthe NationalBank Law, andthe implementationo freform
steps to foster competitioninthe bankingsector. However, manyDirectors expressed
concern about slow progress inprivatizingthe remainingtwo state-owned banks and urged
the authorities to press aheadwith their privatizationplans. Directors also encouragedthe
authorities to accelerate other financial sector reforms recommendedbythe Financial
Sector Assessment Program, including further liberalizationo fthe market for the provision
o f all bankingservicesto the government, the strengthening of anti-money laundering
legislation, further development o fthe government securities market, andimprovements o f
corporate governance andaccounting and auditing standards.

Directors commended the authorities for their recent acceptanceo fthe obligations of
Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and4 o fthe IMFArticles of Agreement andtheir continued
commitment to maintainan exchange system free of restrictions on the makingof payments
and transfers for current international transactions.

Directors praised the Azeri authorities for the continued improvement inthe qualityo f
macroeconomic statistics, and welcomed their commitment to subscribe to the Special Data
Dissemination Standardinearly 2005.

                                                                             ANNEX VI1
                                                                              Page 5 of 6

                       Azerbaijan: Selected Economic Indicators


                                          2001      2002      2003     2004      2005
                                                                       Projection


                                                    (Changes inpercent)
Real economy
 Real GDP                                   9.6       9.7      10.8     7.8      21.6
 CPI(end-of-period)                         1.3       3.3       3.6    10.0        5.O

                                                    (InpercentofGDP)
Consolidated government
 Total revenue 1/                          18.7      27.3      27.1    27.0      27.2
 Total expenditures (including net         18.7      27.7      28.9    26.3      25.0
 lending) 1/
 Fiscalbalance 2/                          -0.4       -0.5     -1.2      0.9       2.2
 Non-oil fiscalbalance 3/                 -10.4     -14.9     -16.0    -14.4     -16.8

                                                    (Changes inpercent)
Money and credit
  Manat reserve money                        9.4     11.1      23.7     36.5      17.3
  Manat broadmoney                           7.7     15.5      28.0     30.6      32.9
  Bankingsector credit to the             -17.5      16.7      38.3     51.1      15.3
economy
  Incomevelocity of averagemanat
  broadmoney4/                             11.3       11.6     10.9      9.9       9.0

                                                     (InpercentofGDP)
Balance o fpayment
  Current account balance (-,deficit)       -0.9     -12.3    -28.3    -27.1       -6.6
  Extemalpublic debt 5/                    20.2       20.1     20.1     17.5       14.6
  Gross international reserves
    Inmillions ofUS$, endofperiod           725       721       803     923      1,181
    Inmonthsofnon-oil sector
imports
    o f GNFS                                 4.5       4.0      3.8      3.9        4.5

Exchange rate
End-of-period (Manat/US$)                 4,775     4,893     4,923        ...       ...
Real effective exchange rate
(-,depreciation)                            -6.1      -7.5     -11.3       ...       ...

Sources: Azeri authorities; and IMF Staff estimates.

                                                                                                    ANNEX MI
                                                                                                     Page 6 of 6

11Revenue andexpenditure startingin2002 include the estimated value o f SOCAR'S
unpaid energy deliveries to the utilities.
21This definition o f the general government balance treats revenue from privatization as a
financing item, and i s measured from below-the-line financing, which includes the
statistical discrepancy.
31Inpercent of non-oil GDP.
41 Interms o f non-oil GDP.
51 Includes government and government guaranteed external debt only.

 UnderArticle IV ofthe IMF'sArticles ofAgreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions withmembers,
usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses
with officials the country's economic developments and policies. Onreturnto headquarters, the staffprepares
a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the conclusion o f the discussion, the
Managing Director, as Chairman o fthe Board, summarizes the views o f Executive Directors, and this
summary i s transmitted to the country's authorities.




                          IMFEXTERNALRELATIONS DEPARTMENT

                        MediaRelations: 202-623-7100 - Fax: 202-623-6772
                         Public Affairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax: 202-623-6278

MAP SECTION


