Page  1
 
 
28263 
Public Information Document 
Azerbaijan: Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
 
 
Project Name: 
 
 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region: 
   
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector:
 
   Poverty 
Reduction 
and 
Economic 
Management 
Project ID:
 
   P074938 
Borrower:
 
   Government 
of 
Azerbaijan 
Republic 
Implementation Agency:
  
Ministry of Economic Development 
Contact:
 
 
 
 
Ministry of Economic Development, Baku 
     Republic 
of 
Azerbaijan 
Environmental Category:
 
 
U (not required) 
Date PID Prepared:
 
  March 
1, 
2004 
Projected Appraisal Date:
 
 
April 25, 2004 
Projected Board Date:
 
 
June 10, 2004 
 
 
1. Country Background
 
 
Since the beginning of the 1990s, Azerbaijan has launched a major economic reform program to establish a 
market-based system. The country has achieved macroeconomic stability and many structural and 
institutional reforms have been implemented. Significant advances in structural policies and public 
management of resources have taken place, especially during the last four years. The Government now 
wants to build on these achievements to sustain economic growth and to increase employment 
opportunities in order to reduce poverty. In doing so, the Government is facing a number of economic 
problems, which it needs to address in order to complete its structural reforms and poverty reduction 
agenda. For this purpose, the Government has consulted with IDA and has requested assistance. The 
Government together with civil society partners has put considerable effort into producing the State 
Program for Poverty Reduction and Economic Development (SPPRED).  The SPPRED is a comprehensive 
program, through which the Government intends to address poverty through a participatory process.   The 
Joint Staff Assessment, presented to the Board in May 2003, concluded that the SPPRED presents a 
credible poverty reduction strategy and provides a sound basis for Bank and Fund concessional assistance. 
 
2.  Objectives and Description
 
 
The objective of the proposed PRSC is to develop and implement policies and structural reforms that are 
consistent with and supportive of the Government’s poverty reduction and economic strategy as highlighted 
in the SPPRED.  The Credit is structured around three components reflecting Government’s reform 
priorities: (a)  create non-oil sector economic opportunities and jobs; (b) increase accountability and 
improve governance; and (iii) promote social inclusion and improve service delivery. 
 
Create non-oil sector economic opportunities and jobs 
 
The promotion of more broad-based, inclusive and private sector led growth is the Government’s primary 
policy goal to reduce poverty.  To foster non-oil sector growth and job opportunities while maintaining 
macroeconomic stability, the proposed Government’s agenda supported by the PRSC focuses on the 
following areas: (i) improving the environment for increased non-oil trade; (ii) improving the overall 
environment for private sector development and investment; (iii) improving financial intermediation and 
public confidence; (iv) enhancing corporate governance and financial discipline in the financial and 
corporate sectors; (v) consolidating reforms in the oil and infrastructure; and, (iv) developing a regulatory 
framework and tariff policy for the utility sector. 
Page  2
 
 
 
Increase accountability and improve governance 
 
Azerbaijan is entering a new phase in its economic development, during a period in which the country’s 
foreign exchange inflows will greatly exceed its import requirements. Prudent budget management policies 
and strong institutions for effective and efficient public expenditure execution are key to avoid the 
disappointing experience of many other oil rich countries who poorly handled the oil boom.  To create an 
accountable public sector, the proposed Government program that the PRSC would support envisages 
policy actions in four key dimensions: (i) improving transparency and accountability in the public sector; 
(ii) improving public expenditure management process and strategic prioritization; (iii) ensuring prudent 
management of oil revenues; and (iv) strengthening public financial management and the procurement 
process. 
 
Promote social inclusion and improve service delivery 
 
The Government’s program to improve delivery of social services is reflected in the SPPRED. The PRSC 
would support the implementation of that program in the following areas: (i) increasing quality and access 
to basic education; (ii) enhancing access to essential drugs and healthcare services; (iii) improving the 
effectiveness of social protection programs; (iv) addressing environmental concerns; and, (v) improving 
poverty and performance monitoring. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
 
 
The objectives of the proposed PRSC is consistent with the strategic goals of the  Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS) Report No. 2579-AZ, which is designed to support  the SPPRED. Covering the six 
SPPRED priorities, the CAS focuses on the following four strategic goals aiming to: (i) manage the oil 
boom to facilitate growth of non-oil sector; (ii) generate employment opportunities through improving the 
business environment and building appropriate infrastructure for SME development; (iii) improve access to 
basic services; and (iv) help realizing the oil potential within the SPPRED time-frame and targets. To 
accomplish these goals, the Bank Group strategy presents in the CAS specific actions focusing, inter alia, 
on developing the budget preparation system and improving the bottom-up approach to the Medium Term 
Expenditure Framework, setting a transparent system of state procurement, strengthening the supreme audit 
institution, enhancing the effectiveness of social expenditures, improving governance, ensuring an enabling 
environment for private sector development, and improving efficiency and quality of social service delivery 
(see CAS Program Matrix Annex B9).  The measures supported by the PRSC program complement other 
assistance programs to Azerbaijan, particularly through our operations in the social sectors (education, 
health and social services assistance) and infrastructure (energy, transport, and telecom). 
 
4.  Financing
 
 
The amount of the proposed PRSC is US$20 million equivalent to be disbursed in one tranche. 
 
5.  Implementation
 
 
The Prime Minister, or the Minister of Economic Development (MED), may serve as the main Coordinator 
to manage the overall implementation of the PRSC.  The MED is also the coordinator of the SPPRED.  The 
primary implementing line agencies will be the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, Ministry of 
Education, Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Environment and 
Natural Resources, Ministry of Communication and Information Technology, Ministry of Justice, 
Azerbaijan National Bank, Chamber of Accounts, Chamber of Auditors, State Procurement Agency, the 
Social Protection Fund, State Committee for Securities, State Statistical Committee, State Oil Company of 
Azerbaijan Republic, and the State Oil Fund. 
Page  3
 
 
 
6. Environmental and Poverty Aspects
 
 
The proposed operation has been rated a structural adjustment credit governed under Operational Directive 
8.60,  and does not require an environmental assessment rating. The PRSC is designed to improve living 
standards in Azerbaijan by enhancing access to and quality of education and health services as well as basic 
infrastructure. It is also designed to reduce poverty and vulnerability in the medium term by promoting 
non-oil economic growth opportunities and improving the targeting of social assistance. There are two key 
areas where Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) is contributing to PRSC preparation. These are 
energy sector reform and workers displacement due to the enterprise restructuring. 
 
7.  Contact Point
 
 
Contact:  
Christian Petersen (ECSPE); and Mansour Farsad (ECSPE) 
 
 
1818 H. St. Washington D.C. 20433 
Tel:  
 
(202) 473-3965; and (202) 473-2963 
E-mail:  
Cpetersen@worldbank.org
; and 
Mfarsad@worldbank.org
 
 
