Revised Project Information Document
Country Name:           The Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
Region:                 East Asia and Pacific
Project Name:            Second Transition Support Program (FY2004)
Sector:                 Poverty Reduction
Project ID Number:      P082190
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Planning and Finance        25870
Environmental Category:  C (Not Required)
Date PID Revised:        June 19, 2003                       June 19, 2003
Projected Board Date:    July 22, 2003
Country and Program Background
1.   Timor-Leste became independent on May 20, 2002, following 25 years of conflict, a
violent transition from Indonesian rule in September 1999 and two and half years of United
Nations administration. The country now faces the challenges of nation-building with very
limited human resources, embryonic institutions, a stagnant economy, high levels of poverty
and unemployment.
2.   Following GDP growth of 17 percent in calendar 2001, growth rates have slowed to an
estimate of 3 percent in 2002 and GDP is expected to contract by 2 percent in 2003. This is
largely due to the gradual winding down of the international presence and slow-down in
reconstruction program, leading to a contraction of services that catered to expatriates,
transport and construction. Government projections point to a slow recovery to the target
growth rate of 5 percent by 2006. Inflation fell to 1 percent by October 2002, but has since
risen to around 8 percent, mainly owing to seasonal factors. Private sector wages have started
to fall, though the overall wage level remains relatively high in comparison with neighboring
countries, undermining competitiveness. Unemployment rates are high, particularly among the
young.
3.   Ratification of the Timor Sea Treaty in March 2003 provides assurance that the planned
development of the Bayu-Undan oil and gas field will proceed. Although most of the services
for this offshore project will be provided from Darwin, possible investments in Timor-Leste
during the construction phase are under review. However, the principal benefit to Timor-Leste
will be from the substantial revenues that the project is expected to generate over a twenty year
period from 2004.
4.   The National Development Plan, prepared through a broad consultative process and
approved by Parliament shortly after Independence, provides the overall framework for
national development. The Plan identifies two overriding goals FY 2002-2006: to promote
rapid, equitable and sustainable economic growth and to reduce poverty. The riots in Dili in
December 2002 and recent attacks on rural communities have brought security concerns, the
need for job creation and immediate improvements in service delivery to the forefront both for
Government and donors. These concerns are reflected in the Government's prioritizing and
sequencing exercise, which provides a "Road Map" for the implementation of the NDP and the
basis for the FY2004 government program and budget.



Progress under TSP I (FY2003)
5.   The Transition Support Program (TSP) provides a framework for multi-donor budgetary
support over a three-year period, from FY2003 to FY2005. Financing is agreed on the basis of
annual programs laid out in the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
6.   Under TSP I (FY2003) priority was given to the strengthening the institutions, legislative
framework and management systems needed for core Government functions - planning and
policy development, financial management, oversight and the judiciary - and establishment of
a regulatory framework for private sector investment. At the same time, Government
identified a number of actions in health and education where they intended to deliver
improvements in service delivery over the short-term.
7.   Progress has been made in all of the TSP I components. Notable achievements include:
improvements in poverty reduction planning through the prioritizing and sequencing exercise;
maintenance of basic social services, with expansion of coverage in critical areas, such as
vaccination; establishment of the institutional framework to address veterans issues; approval
of a land law addressing urban and abandoned property; approval of the legislative and
regulatory framework for the judiciary, including the approval of the Judicial Magistrates Code
appointment of the Superior Council of the Judiciary; maintenance of a sound expenditure
management framework, albeit with low levels of budget execution, and a pro-poor
expenditure framework; and progress in procurement of management contractor and pre-paid
meters to help improve cost-recovery and institutional development in the power sector.
Program Objectives Proposed Grant
8.   TSP I (FY2003) focused on the creation of the institutions, establishment of the
legislative and regulatory framework and strengthening of management systems for core
government functions. While these activities are still on-going, the TSP II (FY2004) will
cover three thematic areas, reflecting NDP and Road Map priorities: good governance,
service delivery for poverty reduction and job creation. The summary below identifies the
programmed outputs to be achieved by component during FY2004.
Good Governance
9.   Oversight Institutions. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the planning and
follow-up of internal investigations, establishment of the Ombudsman's office, and
development of formal legislative procedures, including:
*    Preparation of a strategy for investigation of complaints regarding civil service by
Inspector General, together with review of status of previous investigations
*    Establishment of the Office of the Ombudsman (Provedor de Direitos Humanos e
da Justica).
*    Implementation of a campaign on payment of fees and fines for basic public
services by the Ombudsman.
*    Development of guidelines on the policy and legislative process, with formal
procedures for policy review, consultation and legislative drafting within the
executive.
10. Local Government. Programmed actions and outputs seek to operationalize the
recommendations of a study on the options for local government, including:



*    Presentation of Legislation on State Local Administration and Local Authority to
CoM, together with implementation strategy for establishment of local government
structures.
*    Presentation of a draft proposal on funding mechanism for local authorities, to
support local initiatives, together with a framework for capacity building and
financing by development partners.
*    Presentation of a strategy on community authorities in sucos and villages, intended
to legitimize community authorities.
11. Public Sector Management. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the establishment
of management and information systems needed to operationalize the Civil Service Statute:
*    Finalization of Civil Service Statute and Disciplinary Regulation, dissemination of
Statute and training of senior management in application of disciplinary
procedures.
*    Presentation and review of a draft Human Resources Policy addressing, amongst
others, the pressing issues of recruitment, personnel appraisal and promotion, and
design of supporting information systems.
*    Establishment and training of Human Resource Units in priority line agencies, to
support implementation of human resource management functions, particularly
recruitment and registry.
*    Implementation of personnel registry in priority institutions, ensuring that basic
personnel records are maintained for permanent staff.
12. Poverty Reduction Planning. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the consolidation
of the annual planning process and establishment of the civil society monitoring mechanism:
*    Realization of an informal workshop to review experience of the prioritizing and
sequencing exercise and preparation of annual action plans and quarterly reporting
matrixes.
*    Updating of prioritizing and sequencing exercise and preparation of annual action
plans for FY2005.
*    Promotion of a high-level consultative mechanism as a fully independent body.
13. Public Expenditure Management. Programmed actions focus on updating of the legal
framework for the financial management system, capacity building and improvements in
expenditure performance including:
*    Formulation of a pro-poor FY2005 budget in line with national priorities.
*    Monitoring implenrentation of the Power Sector Management Contract, to assess
progress in cost-recovery.
*    Development of a Human Resource Development strategy for financial
management functions.
*    Submission of a revised Budget and Financial Management Law to Parliament and
revision of Treasury Manuals in line with the Law.
*    Improvement in timeliness of procurement in line with targets, supported by
development of procurement strategy, training of procurement staff and submission
of revised Procurement Law.
*    Preparation of trade statistics using ASYCUDA system and updating of national
accounts for 2002.



14. Justice Sector. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the finalization of the legal
framework for the judiciary, improvements in system performance and the establishment of
basic systems for registration, including:
*    Finalization of legislation on Public Prosecutors and Public Defenders.
*    Realization of sessions in the Judicial Superior Council.
*    Improvement in ratio of cases taken to court to cases brought to trial.
*    Establishment of systems for registration and delivery of registration services,
including: notary; civil identification; and state property administration.
Service Delivery
15. Education. Programmed actions and outputs focus on the development of the education
policy framework, improvements in the quality of education, through curriculum development,
strengthening of financial management functions and piloting of mechanisms to transfer
resources directly to schools:
*    Preparation and approval of an education sector policy framework and draft
education law.
*    Development of primary education curriculum and distribution of supporting
teaching guides to all primary schools.
*    Development and implementation of a three year training program for pre-
secondary education teachers.
*    Training of senior management and district personnel in financial management
procedures.
*    Development and piloting of a mechanism for channeling funds through School
Councils.
16. Health. Programmed actions and outputs focus on further expansion of services,
strengthening of service management at the field level and the definition of policies to
operationalize core services:
*    Improvement of service delivery, meeting targets for delivery of DPT3 and
Measles vaccination, attended deliveries, and outpatient visits
*    Formulation of District Health Plans, providing framework for performance
monitoring and management of services.
*    Formulation of micro-policies operationalizing sector program for: Expanded
Program for Immunization, Mother and Child Health and Nutrition; Health
Promotion, Maternal Health, Malaria, Tuberculosis, Other Communicable
Diseases, Non Communicable Disease, and Human Resources.
Job Creation
17. Private Sector Development. Programmed actions and outputs focus on finalization of
the key private-sector regulatory instruments, implementation of land registration systems and
short-term job creation initiatives:
*    Finalization of company and investment laws.
*    Development of land administration and cadastre systems, aimed primarily at
urban properties.
*    Implementation of a community-based road maintenance program.
*    Promotion of backward linkages to onshore investment from the Timor Sea.
*    Launch of a "Sending labor abroad" program.



18. Agriculture. This sector was not included under TSP I (FY2004). Programmed actions
and outputs focus on the development of a policy framework for the sector, regulation of the
fisheries sector and the implementation of a number of quick-win projects to support rural
employment and improvements in farm income:
*    Development of a draft policy framework for the agricultural sector.
*    Development of the regulatory framework and strategy for community based
management of fisheries.
*    Implementation of pilot initiatives in the introduction of commercial crops, farm-
level processing of agricultural products and community watershed management.
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
19. The Bank financing for Transition Support Program II (FY2004) will be provided as an
IDA grant of SDR 2.9 million for balance of payments support. Nine bilateral donors provide
parallel budgetary support financing for the Transition Support Program through Bank
administered Trust Funds. Five donors have signed contribution agreements with the Bank for
a three year period, through FY2005, amounting to approximately US$54 million: United
Kingdom; Australia; Finaland, United States of America; and Norway. Three donors signed
annual contribution agreements for $2.3 million FY2003, and are expected to pledge similar
amounts for FY2004. Portugal will provide parallel budgetary support financing ($9 million
over three years) directly, rather than through Bank administered Trust Funds.
20. The Second Transition Support Program will be implemented under the overall guidance
of the Minister of Planning and Finance. The program will be managed by the Vice-Minister
and the Ministry's Planning and External Assistance Management Department (PEAMD). The
PEAMD coordinates the formulation of a common program with line agencies and external
partners, through a team including representatives of the Ministry's Budget Office, Treasury,
together with representatives of the Council of Minister's Secretariat and participating line
agencies. PEAMD monitors program implementation and prepares detailed quarterly progress
reports. Treasury processes, tracks and provides regular reports on TSP disbursements.
Contacts:
21. The Bank contact point is:
Adrian Fozzard (Task Team Leader)
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
22. For information on other project related documents:
Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Fax: 202 522 1500



