RESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-90a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized orpnizations
or persons. It nmy not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responubflity for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
PANAMA
July 13, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
Currency Equivalents
Panamanian Balboa (B) 1.00 = USt1.00
Units
Units are in the Metric System
Length
Kilometers (km)  1.0 = 0.6214 miles
Meters (m)       1.0 = 3.281 feet
Centimeters (cm) 1.0 = 0.3937 inches
Area
Hectare (ha)      1.0 = 2.471 acre
Square Meter (n2) 1.0 = 1.196 sq yd
Volume
Liter (It) 1.0 = 0.21998 imperial gallons
1.0 = 0.26418 U.S. gallons
Weight
Kilogram (kg) 1.0 = 2.2046 pounds
Abbreviations
DAC - Direccion de Aeronautica Civil
ICAO - International Civil Aviation Organization
IATA - International Air Transport Association
FAA - Federal Aviation Administration (U.S.)
ILS  - Instrument Landing System
VOR - Very High Frequency Omni Directional Radio Range
DME  - Distance Measuring Equipment



PAVAMA
APPRAISAL OF TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pg MNo.
STIJ21RY AND C01ICLUSICiTS                           i-ii
1. INTRODUCTION                                           1
2. BACKGROUiD                                             3
A. General                                            3
B. The Transportation Sector                          3
C. Aviation                                           3
D. Tocumen International Airport                       4
3. THE PROJECT AMD THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM                 6
A. The Investment Program of DAC                      6
B.  Description of the Project                         6
C. Design and Engineering                              7
D.  Zoning                                            8
E.  Procurement                                       8
F.  Cont Estimates                                    8
G.  Land Acquisition                                  9
H.  Disbursement                                      9
4. TRAFFIC                                               10
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                  12
A.  General                                          12
B. Estimates of Benefits                             13
C.  Total Project Return and Incidence of Benefits   16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. A. Douglas (Aviation Engineer),
P.O. Cheryan (Financial Analyst) and S.Y. Park 'Economist).



- ii -
6.  TEIE BORRYJfER                                           17
A.  Introduction                                         17
B. Organization and Management                           17
C.  Present Financial Position                           19
D.  User Charges and Level of Earnings                   20
E. Financing Plan                                        21
F. Future Earnings and Financial Position                22
7- AGREE,ENTS REACHED AfND RECOIMENDATION                    25
ANNEXES
1,  Definitions and Descriptions of' Navigation Aids.
2.  Considerations in Comparing the Reconstruction of the Existing
Runway Tith the Construction of a New Runway.
3.  Economic Benefits of Air Terminal Construction.
4.  Monetary Value of Time Saved,
5.  Schedule of User Charges Rates at Tocumen.
6. Assumptions Used in Financial Projections.
TABLES
1. DAC Investment Program - 1971 through 1975.
2.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.
3.  Projection of Traffic.
4.  Projected Income Statement
5.  Projected Cash Flow
6.  Financial Ratios
7.  Proforma Balance Sheet
CHARTS
1. DAC Organization, 1970.
2. Projected DAC Organization, 1975.
FIGURE
1.  Total Process Time of Arriving Passengers at Old and New Terminals.
MAPS
1.  Location of Airports.
2. Tocumen International Airport Facilities Layout.



PAN,AIA
APPRAISAL OF TOCUMIEN INTERBATIODUAL AIRPORT PROJECT
SUc aPY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Panama proposes to modernize and expand the
facilities at Tocumen International Airport, the country's principal air-
port, to assure its continued use for international transit traffic, provide
for future traffic growth and facilitate tourism development.
ii.       The proposed Bank loan of U&S2o.0 million equivalent wouldcover
the estimated foreign exchange costs of an airport improvement project
estimated to cost US$34.8 million equivalent. It would be the Bank's
first airport project.  The loan would be made to a recently created auton-
ormous agency, the Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC), which owns and
operates Tocumen and other airports in Panama. The Government would guar-
antee the Bank loan and provide 731 3.8 million of the local cnrrency cost
aS a loan to DACG, with DAC providing the balance of US$1.0 million.
iii.      The introduction of heavy large capacity jets into Tocumen Inter-
national Airport has resulted in the overloading of the runway, and in con-
gestion in the terminal building. In addition, the buildings are not suit-
able for the present scale of operations and are becoming increasingly
more difficult to maintain.
iv.       The proposed project will provide improved facilities by the
construction of a new 3,350 m (11,000 ft) runway complete with lighting
and an instrument landing system and a rnte paaongoet  teimrinal build4ing.
The project will make it possible to handle the expected increases in
traffic volume until the early 1980's with a minimum of delay to aircraft,
passengers and cargo.
V.        The cost estimates for the project are based on preliminary
engineering studies carried out by consultants as part of a feasibility
study. The cost estimates contain adequate contingency allowances, spe-
cifically for revisions expected to occur during the developnent of the
detailed design of the terminal building complex.
vi.       The execution of the project will be the responsibility of DAC,
assisted by consultants who will carxy out the detailed design and super-
vision of construction. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding. The project will be executed in five con-
tracts - clearing, earthworks, paving, navaids and buildinge.  Mzst of
the work is likely to be awarded to foreign bidders.  A number of local
subcontractors are expected to participate in the construction work.  It
is recommendod that the foreign oxchange costs of engineering incurred
before the signing of the loan, estimated at $,!800,000,bo financed retro-
actively.



- ii -
vii.      DAC was established in 1969 as an autonomous state agency to
handle all civil aviation matters in Panama. DAC has made a good start
but is severely handicapped by the general lack of experience of its staff
in civil aviation matters. Technical and financial management is weak
and to correct this situation a program of technical and management assis-
tance will be undertaken as part of the project.
viii.     DAC's income is derived from user charges which, at their existing
level, would not be sufficient to cover future costs.  The Government and
DAC have agreed to implement the consultantsr recommendation to raise
charges to ensure the financial viability of the agency. The financial
forecasts indicate that with these increases DAC will, after meeting its
operating requirements and servicing its debts be able to finance the
further expansion of aviation infrastracture facilities in Panama in the
foreseeable future. After completion of the project, the rate of return
on net fixed assets will rise from the rather low level of 1.8% in 1976
to 6.8% in 1980 and 16.7% in 198h.
ix.       The project will produce benefits in the form of savings in user
time and other economic resources, which are expected to result in an econ-
omic return ranging from 18% to 20%. In the economic evaluation separate
consideration is given to the terminal building and the runway. The
benefits of the construction of the terminal building consist of the time
savings by aircraft and passengers, resulting in an estimated economic
return ranging between 13.5% and 17%.  The construction of the new runway
sill produce benefits in the form of lower aircraft operating and runway
maintenance costs and the freeing of land at another airport for commercial
use, resulting in an estimated economic return ranging from 22% to 27%.
x.        The project is suitable for a loan to DAC of $20.0 million
equivalent. A term of 20 years, including a grace period of 4 years
corresponding to the construction period, is appropriate.



PANAMA.
APPRAISAL OF THE TOCUMEN INTEBMATIONAL AIRWORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Panama has requested the Bank to assist in
financing the development of Tocumen International Airport. The total cost
of the project is estimated at US$3h.8 million, of which the Bank is re-
quested to finance the foreign exchange component amounting to U1S,20. 0 million.
1.02      The proposed borrower is Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC), an
autonomous agency of the Government of Panama, which came into existence
in January 1969. The proposed loan would be guaranteed by the Government.
It would be the first Bank airpaot project,
1.03      In 1969 DAC retained the US consulting firm Parsons Corporation
to prepare a feasibility study for the expansion of the airport. After
discussions with the Bank, two addenda were prepared to explore technical
alternatives more thoroughly and to present the detailed economic justifi-
cation of the project.
1.04      The project consists of the construction of a new runway and a
modern terminal building at Tocumen International Airport to provide im-
proved service to a large and growing volume of passenger and cargo traffic.
The Government attaches a high priority to this project as a means of main-
taining and improving Tocumen's position as a major international airport,
stimulating tourism as part of its policy of economic diversification,
capturing an increasing share of north-south and east-west air passenger
and cargo traffic and improving aviation services to meet the requirements
of Panama's developing economy.
1.05      The project is part of a master plan of airport development which
provides for future expansion of terminal building and runway capacity when
required. It is expected that the proposed new runway and air terminal
building will be completed and in service in the middle of 1974 and 1975 re-
spectively. The air terminal building is being designed to handle traffic
projected for 1980 with provision for expansion. The consultants' detailed
evaluation of various alternative designs indicated that it is more economical
to construct tho terminal building initially for the design year 1980, and add
satellites as required, to meet the traffic requirements for 1985 and
beyond, than to construct immediately for a later design year. The new
runway will expand the capacity of the airport to handle traffic un1il at
least 1985. The existing runway will become available for use by general
aviation, which now uses a small airport (Paitilla) nearer the urban center
of Panama City.



-2-
l.O6      Previous Bank lending in the transportation sector has been lim-it-
ed to two loans (123-PAN and 264-PAN) totalling US$13.1 million to help fi-
nance road construction. These lending operations brought to light major
institutional problems in the Highway Department which was, at the time,
also responsible for airports. These problems were caused by Government
interference with staffing and execution of work and prevented the nego-
tiations of a proposed Third Highway Loan. DAC, as an autonomous agency
is not expected to be affected by this type of problem.
1.07      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Panama in September/October 1970 and a number of subsequent
discussions with DAC. Mr. A. Douglas, aviation engineer ol' the Bank,
assisted by Bank retained consultants, Messrs. P.O. Cheryan (financial
analyst), D. Riemens (economist) and J. Roelofs (economist and management
expert) participated in the appraisal mission. The report was written by
Messrs. Douglas, Cheryan and Park.



- 3 -
2. BACKGROITD
A. General
2.01      The Republic of' Panama, an isthmus state of 29,000 sq miles between
the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, is bounded on the east by Colombia and on
the west by Costa Rica (see Map 1). The population is estimated at 1.5
million in 1970 and is growing at 3.3% per annmm.  The country is rcuthly
bisected by the Canal Zone in which is located the Panama Canal which is
owned and operated by the Panama Canal Company. East of the Canal Zone the
country is relatively unexplored and is without highways, railways or regula.~
air services. The bulk of the population is concentrated adjacent to the
Canal Zone and in the Pacific plains to the west.
2.02      Panama's gross domestic product (GDP) in 1969 was US$880 million
with a per capita GDP of US$630. The average annual growth rate has been
about 8%  over the period 1964-1968.  The tertiary sector of the economy
accounts for more than one half of GDP, with agriculture (22%) and manufac-
turing (18%) coming second and third respectively. The Canal Zone is the
main source of Panama s foreign exchange earnings which have been rising
annually at 13%. The principal exports are bananas, refined oil, shrimp
and sugar.
2.03      The Government is attempting to diversify the economy through
emphasis on such activities as tourism, fishing and agricutu_re.  The promot or.
of tourism will require investments in facilities and infr a-3racture of which
the expanded Tocumen Airport will be a component.
B. The Transportation Sector
2.04      The Panama Railroad runs through the Canal Zone between Panama City
and Colon. Some of the towns of Western Panama are also connected by short
rail links. There are about 1,400 miles of public roads including about 340
miles of Pan American Highway and a 50 mile long highway connecting Panama
City and Colon. Large parts of the country are, however, not accessible by
road. The chief ports are Cristobal at the Caribbean end of the canal and
Balboa at the Pacific end. There are two small domestic airlines and the
country is served by numerous international airlines through Tocumnen Airport.
C. Aviation
2.05      In January 1969, a comprehensive reorganization and realignment of
civil aviation responsibilities in Panama was effected and a new autonomous
organization - Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC) was created. DAC has
prepared a five-year plan for aviation development. The plan includes airportQ
navigation aids and communications, improved safety services and persornel
training.



- 4 -
2.06      Airports are managed by the Airports Department of DAC. The over-
all management and routine operation and administration of airports in
Panamaare performed by DAC staff. The detailed planning, design and
construction of small scale airport improvements are done by DAC whereas
that required for larger projects is done by consultants.
2.07      The US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) provides Air Traffic
Control Services (ATC) in the region through the use of a modern facility
located at Balboa in the Canal Zone.
2.08      International airline operations to Panama by 20 carriers are
growing and new air carrier services are being encouraged and solicited
by DAC as part of the Government's policy to foster tourism. Panama is
actively seeking more favorable bilateral air agreements to improve its
air trade opportunities.
2.09      A total of 25 foreign cities are linked directly with Panama by
air. The five largest of these in terms of air traffic are Miami, San
Jose, Lima, Guayaquil and Quito. The heaviest travelled routes are Miami-
Panama-Guayaquil-Lima-Santiago and Mexico City-Guatemala-Panama.
2.10      Domestic aviation is also growing in significance by providing
improved access to major centers in western Panama and to communities not
served by other modes. Writh the growth of domestic aviation activity,
greater emphasis is being placed on the need for an improved airways
structure with better navaids for enroute and terminal use and for improved
cammunications. Very High Frequency Omni Directional Radio Range (VOR)
installations are planned at David, Bocas del Toro, Santiago and La Palma
together with Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) at David and Bocas del
Toro. (Refer to Annex 1 for definitions and descriptions).
D. Tocumen International Airport
2.11      Tocumen Airport is one of the principal airports in South America.
In 1969, it handled some 420,000 international arriving and departing
passengers compared with 549,000 at Rio de Janeiro, 574,000 at Caracas and
429,000 at Barbados. The number of scheduled aircraft movements in the
same year was 19,000 at Tocumen compared with 15,000 at Rio de Janeiro,
19,0CO at Caracas and 18,000 at Barbados. A total of 20 international air-
lines serves the airport.



- 5 -
2.12     Tocumen is the main center for the flow of international air
cargo into and out of the country and processes about 40% of the domestic
air cargo; growth of air cargo, however, has been slow compared with air
cargo growth trends worldwide.
2.13     The existing airport facilities were built in stages beginning
in 1946.  The concrete runway was subsequently extended in 1960 to 2,700 m.
It hasrmw reached the end of its physical life and cracking, deflection and
progressive failure is occuring. Major strengthening is required to pro-
vide adequately for current jet operations as well as for the requirements
of future aircraft.
2.14    The terminal building was built in 1953 and has been extended
several times by a variety of additions to meet the immediate demands.
This has resulted in a functionally obsolete and inefficient operation.



- 6 -
3   THE PROJECT AND THE DrV.slTMJi  BT-MlGA1v
A. The Investment Program of DAC
3.01      The investment program of Aeronautica Civil consists of runway,
navaid and terminal building improvements at seven airports: Tocumen,
David, Bocas del Toro, Chaniguinola, Puerto Armuelles, Santiago and La Palma.
The details of the proposed investment during 1971-1975 for improvements at
these sites are induded in Table 1.
3.02      The main purposes of this program are to ensure safety and to pro-
vide reasaiable accommodation for air passengers and airport operations.
3.03      The main part of the program will be carried out at Tocumen and
ccnsists of the project for which the Govem ment has requested Bank financing.
The proposed project is 93% of the total 1971-75 investment program of $36.7
million.
B. Description of the Project
3.04      The project consists of the construction at Tocumen Intermational
Airport of (a) a new concrete runway 3,350 m x 45 m (11,000 ft x 150 ft)
with parallel asphaltic concrete taxiway, complete with lighting, (b) runway
approach lighting, (c) an Instrument Landing System (ILS), (d) aircraft
parking apron, (e) new air passenger terminal building, (f) control tower,
(g) crash-rescue building and (h) other related works. Also included are
management consultant services.
3.05      The new runway will be parallel to the existing one but located
1 000 m (3,280 ft) to the south of it on the other side of the Panama-Tocumen
highway. A connecting taxiway will join the two runways and cross the high-
way via an overpass. The possibility of improving the existing runway rather
than building a new one was considered but the new runway construction was
found to be more advantageous. (See Annex 2 and Chapter 5 Economic Evalu-
ation).
3.06      The new passenger terminal building consists of a central main
building with two satellite buildings connected to it by corridors. This
represents the first phase of development. Further development of the air-
port at a later stage would provide additional satellites.
3.07      A drawing showing the location of various existing and proposed
airport facilities is included as Map 2. The runway and the terminal build-
ing will be constructed during the period 1971-1975.
3.08      The haidling of air cargo will require improvements in cargo
handling facilities at the aizport. These will be financed and operated
by the users. The Government is also planning to develop an air cargo free
zone at Tocumen (not included in the project). The plans for this free
zone are rather uncertain and its potential effect on traffic growth has
therefore not been taken into account in the traffic forecasts. A duty
free zone in the proposed air terminal building is planned to cater to the
nieeds of the travelling public with particular emphasis on transit passen-
gers.



- 7 -
3.09      DAC intends to arrange for a hydrant refueling system at the new
terminal building. A regulation has been passed to ensure that the users
will provide and operate such a system.
3.10      The introduction of new terminal approach aids such as the Instru-
ment Landing System (ILS) will necessitate the revision of aircraft operating
procedures in the vicinity of Tocumen International Airport. DAC will obtain
technical assistance from an appropriate civil aviation agency to develop
and implement such procedures.
3.11      In addition to this technical assistance, other consultant services
will be needed to assist with the strengthening of DAC as an institution
(see Chapter 6, para. 6.o5). Management consultants will be retained by DAC
to review needs, make recommendations and implement them. Consultants for
these services will be appointed before the loan becomes effective. Assis-
tance will also be required in the development of a National Aviation Plan
to help determine the needs and priorities of other domestic airports and
aviation services and to help DAC to allocate its resources to future aviation
investments and operations. Funds are provided under the loan to cover the
foreign exchange element of fees and training costs involved.   Agreement in
principle has been reached with DAC on the scope of work anad it has been
agreed that these services will commence before the end of 1972.
C. Design and Engineering
3.12      DAC has retained the Parsons Corporation of Los Angeles, California,
as consultant for the design work, including the preparation of plans and
specifications. It is DAC's intention that the consultants will also be
responsible for supervision of construction, but will perform their work in
association with local consultants. Panamanian personnel will receive train-
ing during the design and construction phases of the work to develop their
capability in this type of work and aid them in the efficient operation of
the facilities. DAC has agreed that arrangements for supervision by
consultants will be made before the start of civil works and that such
arrangements are subject to approval by the Bank.
3.13      Airport design standards will be in accordance with the standards
and recommended practices of ICAO, particularly Annex 14 - Aerodromes, and
the advisory circulars of the FAA particularly as they relate to the latest
requirements for large aircraft. The space standards to be used in the
terminal building are in accordance with the FAA standards for medium size
air terminals. In addition, the work will be designed and constructed to
comply with local building codes which follow North American practice.
3.14      These standards are satisfactory.



-8-
D. Zoning
3.15      To permit the safe operation of aircraft in and out of the airport,
it will be necessary to control the development of property adjacent to the
airport and particularly on the runway approaches. The construction of
buildings and other structures will have to be controlled to ensure that they
do not becomeobstruction hazards. Land development should be similarly con-
trolled to protect the long range potential use of the airport.
3.16      DAC has agreed to implement effective zoning regulations to control
the development of obstructions in the vicinity of the airport. These
regulations are to be effective prior to December 31, 1972.
3.17      The Government has agreed to develop and implenent by July 31, 1973
comprehensive land use zoning in the administrative districts in the environs
of the airport, which will be compatible with the long range use of the
airport property.
E. Procurement
3.18      It is DAC's intention to award five separate construction contracts
for clearing, earthworks, paving, navaids and the air terminal building
complex.
3.19      It is foreseen that these contracts would attract the interest of
foreign contractors. If such contractors are the successful bidders, it is
expected that they would employ local subcontractors to a substantial
degree. Imported material and supplies used on this project will be exempt
from import duty.
3.20      Construction contracts will be awarded in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement"'.
P. Ccot Ft.;Z6-LZt6Q
3.21      The project is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$34.8 million.
The proposed loan of US$20.0 million would cover the estimated foreign ex-
change costx which are 57% of the total costs. The various major elements
of the project are shown in the table below.
US$ or BaiT)has (Thousands)
Local   Foreign     Total    Percentage
Runway and Taxiway Construct'on       3,731    3,732      7,463        21.45
Runway and Taxiway Lighting             110      215        325          .93
Approach Lighting and IIZ,               49      276        325          .93
Passenger Terminal Building
including apron            6,344    7,755    314,99         40.-5
Control Tower                            83      249        332          . 6
Crash-Rescue Building                    63       72        135          .39
Access Road, Tunnel, Utilities          495    1,281      1,776         5.10



9 -
'JSS or 'alboas (Thousands)
Cont I d                               Local   Foreign    'otal    ?ercntage
Design                                    418     1 ,230    1,648       4.74
Supervision                              450        750     1 200       3.45
Sub-total                                14      15,560    27,303
Contingencies  -Physical                1,562     2,495     4.,057     11.66
-Price                  1,370     1,570      2,940       8.45
Other Consultants' Fees                   125       375       500       144
Total Project Cost                    124,800    2000    34800        100.00
3.22      The above figures are based on the cost estimates prepared by the
consultants, dated May 3, 1971. They were developed from the consultants'
preliminary field investigations and designs. Whereas a physical contingenc.;
allowance of 10% has been used for runway, taxiway and field works, it was
considered necessary to use 20% for the passenger tenLLnal building.  Such a
higher contingency allowance is necessary to provide for changes in user re-
quirements and evolving technology during the design and construction period
and is normal practice in the development of air terminal building projects.
Escalation of constrution costs has been estimated at approximately 7% per
annum for both the local and foreign components during the construction pericd
With the above contingencies, the cost estimates are considered realistic.
DAC has directed the consultants to exercise continuous control on the
size and specifications of the terminal building throughout the deaiE:n
period to maintain its cost iwithin the present estimates.
G. Land Acouisition
3.23      A total of 350 ha of land valued at t750,000 will be required for
the project. This land will be made available by the Government to DAC as a
contribution to DAC's equity. It is so treated in the financial projections
and has been taken into account as a cost in the economic evaluation of the
project.
H. Disbursement
3.24      Disbursement of loan funds will be made to finance the foreign e::-
change elements of construction and consultants' services. These disburoementi,
are expec'ted to t,ake place over a four year period frorm December 1971 tO Jule
1975. Diclburseents will be made on the folowing baE:-is:
(a)    ' of (umenditures for civil work3 c^cntracts rhich represent3
t.e estimatcd foreign exchange coSxie  thereof;
(b)  70% of expenditures for consult ift ser1rices which represents
the estimated foreign exchange c(mpor:nt thereof.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is shaow- in Table 2. It is recoraew3d-
ed t'nat the fored,gn exchange costs of consulting services, incurred after
August 1, 1970, should be financed retroactively. These costs are estimated
to be less the,n. US$80 00O  equiv.lInt.



- 10 -
4. TRAFFIC
4.o1      The consultants prepared two alternative traffic projections for
Tocumen assuming that the proposed project would be carried out. Their high
forecast is a simple extrapolation of the past growth trend. The low forecast
also used the past trend as basis, but adjustments were made taking into
account: (1) that the current rates of traffic growth would probably
decelerate gradually and (2) that traffic growth experienced in other countries
or geographical areas would provide an indication of the likely long term trzz,d
of traffic development in Panama. The low forecast reflects also the follc-i
ing specific factors:
For passengers:
a. The anticipated development of the tourist industry
in Panama; and
b. the relative slackening of activities in the Canal Zone.
For cargo:
a. the anticipated continuing growth of the duty free zone in
Colon; and
b. the favorable location of Panama as an air cargo transit
point.
4.02      The Bank staff considers the consultants' low traffic forecast,
which is about 40% lower than the high forecast, to be more realistic and,
therefore, with some minor modifications, it has been used as basis for
determining project design and economic and financial analyses.
4.03      Details of the forecast traffic for passengers and cargo for the
20 year period, 1971-10994 are shown in Table 3.  In summary, the forecast
shows that the total number of international passengers whiich numbered 815,80c
in 1 969 -.rould Cro, to over 2 raillion in 1 980 and to nearly 5 million in 1 990.
The donestic passenger volbie uTould increase frcm 91,500 in 1969 to 320,CC0
in 1980 and to 825,ooo in 1990. Intermational cargo is expected to increase
frcm 23,159 tons in 1968 to 89,000 tons in 1980 and to 220,000 tons in 1990;
domestic cargo from 2,164 tons to 6,200 tons in 12380 and to 14,600 tons in
1990.  These projected passenger and cargo movements 7xill require an increasc
in the number of aircraft opcrations at Tocurien from 25,o000 Vndings and take-
offs in 1969 to about 55,000 in 1980, about 32,500 in 1985 and about 120,000
in 1990. The assumptions on which these forecasts are based are explained bPlc
Passenger Traffic
4rO4      For projection purposes, the international passengers are divided
into four categories whiich have different characteristics of growth: Foreign



- 11 -
visitors, Panama residents, Canal Zone residents and Direct Transit passengars,
4.05      Forei   Visitors are further subdivided into tourists and non-
tourists.        about 70  of foreign visitors are tourists.  The non-tourist
traffic will probably grow at a declining rate of 3% to 2.5% during the 1970's
and no further growth is assumed for the period thereafter. The rate of
growth in tourist traffic, which averaged about 11.5% during the past five
years, will continue to grow at the same rate. This assumption is supported
by the various tourism promotion programs being carried out by the Bureau of
Tourism of Panama. On this basis the total volume of foreign visitor traffic
is projected to increase by 9.5% p.a. to 1980 and 10.5% p.a. during 1980-'w:.
4.06      Panama Residents; traffic has grown at 14.5% p.a. during the past
five years, which is a very high increase relative to the annual rate of 8.4%
for the previous quinquennial period. It is unlikely that this high rate of
growth can be sustained continuously and some slackening in the rate of grcwth
is expected. The annual growth rates used in the projection are 11.5% to
1980 and 10% for 1980-1990.
4.07      Canal Zone traffic growth, which has slowed down in recent years
due to the decline of both the civilian and military activities in the United
States administered zone, is projected to decline fr^; the 4.2% rate during
the past five years to 3.5% and stabilize at that level during the projecticr,
period.
4.o8      Direct Transit traffic which accounts for about one half of the
international traffic today, is projected to decrease in relative importance
to just over 40% by 1990. The main reasons for this decrease is that, as
traffic between North and South America develops further, there is a tendency
for an increasing number of direct flights between the two continents to by-
pass Panama. The projected change in the proportion of direct transit traffi)
implies an annual growth rate for this traffic of 8.5% for the projection
period.
4.09      Domestic Passenger traffic is expected to maintain the past trer,
at about 12% to 1980, thereafter slowing down to about 10% p.a.
4.10      Cargo Traffic.  The past growth rates of international cargo tre£f;r
show an average of 12.5% p.a. for 1961-69. No trend could, however, be
deduced from this average, since it is based on violent annual fluctuations
from a 30% yearly increase to a 20% fall. The forecast prepared by the Air
Transport Association of America gives annual rates of growth of 13% for
1969-1975 declining to 10% for 1980-1985. For the 1985-90 period the rate
is assumed to decline further to 9% p.a. In view of the generally favorable
prospects for air cargo traffic development in various key areas of the werld,
this forecast for Panama is considered reasonable and has been used.
4.11      Domestic Cargo Traffic.  Because domestic air cargo traffic is only
beginning to develop in Panama, it is likely that this traffic would at least
maintain its past growth trend of 9% during the projection period.



5.  ECOQUIC EVkLU-T ION
A. General
5.01      The special nature of Panama's economy makes the provision of a
convenient and economical means of communication with the outside world
of paramount importance to its continuous growth.  Traditionally, Panama
has been a trading nation, with few natural resources to exploit except
its favorable geographical location. The trading activities gave rise
to the growth of' warehousing, banking, insurance and other related activ-
ities with an international orientation. These activities account for
nearly 60cJ of Jobs in the metropolitan area of Panama City where more
than half of the country's labor force is concentrated. The development
of these trading and service activities and a currency directly tied to
the US dollar provided incentives to capital inflows into the country.
Further, tax incentives and theliberal corporation laws induced the
establishment of a large number of foreign-owned enterprises engaged in
trading, banking, insurance, etc. The Government plans to further these
activities to decrease the present heavy dependence of the economy on
the Panama Canal.
5.02      The importance of the service (or tertiary) sector is shown by
the fact that, at present, it accounts for more than one half of the
country's GDP. Banking, communications and trade have been the most
dynamic lines of activity in recent years.  For instance, in 1970 the
banking sector grew by nearly a third as new branches were opened and
more business was generated by large inflow of non-resident deposits.
The proposed improvement of the Tocumen Airport would materially con-
tribute to maintaining the satisfactory trend of economic growth of
Panama by facilitating the continuance and further growth of the trading
and related activities which depend heavily on efficient air transport
to and from Panama. The Tocumen Airport handles virtually the total of
Panama's international air traffic, and about 9010 of all passenger traf-
fic to and from Panama by all modes of transport.
5.03      The project also has an important bearing on the success of the
Government's tourism prcmotion program to which the Government attaches
high priority. The Tourist Agency has begun a vigorous pirmoticonal
campaign and the Government recently financed a sector study of tourism,
and is financing further studies to review the possibilities of three
main tourist areas. IFC has recently made an investment of $1 .5 million
in support of the construction of a new hotel in Panama City.
5.04      In addition to being Panama's main intermational airport, its
location at the mid-point in the flight routes between North and South
America makes Tocumen an important stop-over point for passenger transfer
and also for the refueling and maintenance of aircraft. The airport is
regularly served by some 20 foreign airlines.1/ Recently, one European
airline (KLM) has begun a direct South American run (by-passing North
America) which uses Panama as a stop-over point. This type of traffic
is expected to increase, adding further to the importance of Tocumen in
the future.
1X Irncluding Pan Americani, Braniff International, AVILVWA and KLH



- 13 -
5.05      The project is conceived to ensure a smooth flar of the growing
passenger and cargo traffic through the terminal, and safe and dependable
aircraft operation into and out of the airport, which are essential to
maintaining Panama's important position in international aviation in the
Westoern Hemisphlere and to its continued economic growth.
B. Estimates of Benefits
WJhile, as suggested above, the project is important for the con-
tinuing development of Panama's economy, this of itself does not provide
guidance on how much and when to invest. The question of optimal size and
timing of the project can only be dealt with by comparing quantified
benefits against costs. As with most transport projects, the direct
benefits of an airport project are the resources saved by it. In the case
of an airport, the main resource saved is time both of passengers and of
aircraft. The analysis that follows tries to assess the value of time
saved and to compare that against the investment costs incurred. For the
purpose of economic analysis, the project is divided into two parts - the
terminal and associated facilities, and the runway, navigational aids, etc.
a. Terminal Building
5.07      Continued use of the existing building under the expected increase
in passenger traffic would lead to increasing delays and frustrations to
both passengers and airline operators. The existing building, wThich was
originally constructed in 1953, is functionally obsolete and cannot be
further improved to meet future requirements. The new building will not
only give the capacity to handle the expected volume of traffic through
the early 1980's, but also it will permit the quicker processing (facil-
itation in aviation language) of passengers. As explained in Annex 3,
the estimated benefits of the new terminal are tased on time savings by
passengers and aircraft with the proposed terminal bui'ding as compared
with the continued use of the existing building. In the analysis, unit
time savings per passenger and per aircraft have been estimated for the
first five years of operation of the new terminal building with no fur-
ther increase assumed thereafter. Continued use of the existing facility
beyond this period, would, however, lead to chaotic congestion within the
present building and, on this basis, the unit time saving would show a
steep increase. Since the estimate of unit time savings in this situation
would be quite speculative, it has not been used in the analysis.  The
estimates of economic benefits are, therefore, quite conservative.
5.o8      The principal elements of the benefits of the investment in the
new terminalbuilding and associated facilities are:



- 14 -
i)  Time savings by arriving passengers. These arise
mainly through faster processing and particularly
through improved baggage handling. The consultants'
simulation studies and field surveys at Tocumen
indicated that the reduction in handling time for
arriving passengers ran-es between four minutes and
over one hour, depending on the number of passen-
gers arriving at one time in the new terminal. This
is illustrated in Figure 1. When the number of
passengers arriving at one time reaches about 75 in
the old terminal, a "critically congested situation"
arises with the passenger handling time exceeding
40 minutes. In the proposed new terminal this number
of passengers could be handled in about 13 minutes.
The simulation study suggests this "critically con-
gested situation" would occur 315 times in 1975 and
853 times in 1980. By eliminating these peak and
lesser congestion periods, the new terminal will
permit savings of about 43,400 passenger hours in
1975 and about 84,000 passenger hours in 1980.
ii)  Time savings by departing passengers resulting from
a shorter check-in time of 15 minutes per passenger.
In 1975 the total savings would be about 149,000
passenger hours and in 1980 about 241,000 passenger
hours.
iii)  Time savings by departing aircraft by avoiding delays
caused by terminal congestion - estimated to average
3.4 minutes per aircraft. The total savings would be
874 aircraft hours in 1975 and 1,154 hours in 1980.
5.09        The value of passenger's time has been estimated on two assumptions-
one that passengers consider their leisure time as valuable as their working time
and the other that they consider leisure time to be as valuable as one-third of
their working time. On these alternative assumptions the estimated average time
values per passenger hour are $8.10 and $5.00 (see Annex 4).  The average hourl:',
rost of aircraft for 1971 is estimated at $723 increasing to $1,023 in the 1985-
1990 period as a result of the projected changes in the composition of aircraft
szrving Tocumen (see also Annex 4). Depending on whether the higher or the
.ower unit time value is used, the economic return on the investment in the
terminal building ranges from 17% to 13.5%.
5.10        The sensitivity of the lower returns has been tested on the assump-
tion that the value of time to those passengers who are not employed (housewives,
etc.) is zero, i.e. the average time value per hour drops from $5.00 to $4.39.
dn this basis, the return falls to 1350. In the analysis it was assumed that
the proportion of wide-bodied jets would increase from 7.7% of the total aircraft
leet serving Tocumen in 1980 to 19.25'` in 1985 (see Annex 4).  If this assump-
tion is modified so that the proportion remains at 7.7 '' throughout the projection
; nriod, the rate of return is reduced by less than  .  If both of these changes
£re incorporated into the calculation, the rate of return is still about 12.5,;
and can be considered acceptable.



- 15 -
b.  nwmIay
5.11      Without major reconstruction, the existing runway at Tocumen will
not only be unable to serve the current generation of aircraft using the air-
port but also the new generation of jumbo and wide-bodied jets coming into
service. The cost of maintaining the existing runway for use even by current
standard jet aircraft would be prohibitively high; involving maintenance
work costing about $3.5 million immediately and US$1.7 million at five year
intervals thereafter. To meet the needs of the new generation of aircraft,
further expenditures would be. needed in runway lengthening and strengthening.
5.12      Accordingly, Panama has the option of building a new runway now,
with some modest expenditures to keep the existing runway in service for
general aviation aircraft that could be diverted from a small nearby airport
and putting the land it occupies to an alternative use, or of improving the
existing runway to the standards needed for expected future traffic. A new
runway would cost about $11.0 million.  To improve the existing runway would
cost about the same amount. But since it would be carried out in two stages
involving about $8.0 million and $3.0 million the discounted value of the
improvement is slightly less than that for a new runway.  There are, however,
several advantages which justify the construction of the new runway at the
higher initial costs:
i)  The alignment of the new runway is superior to that of the
existing one and materially improves the safety of operations.
Furthermore, the 0.9,") effective slope of the present runway,
which imposes a penalty on aircraft operations, would be
reduced to 0.5% (see Annex 2).
ii) The avoided costs of complete interruption of airport service
for about two weeks and of restricted services of up to one
year which would arise if the choice was made to improve the
existing runway. No reliable estimate of the costs of these
interruptions to both the Panamanian economy and airline
operators exists. It is possible, however, that they more
than offset the lower cost advantage of the improvement
alternative.
iii)  General aviation activities which are presently carried out
at Paitilla Airfield in the built-up area of Panama City would
be transferred to the existing runway at Tocumen. This would
free a land area which has a market value of $3.2 million.
In addition, the removal of general aviation activities from
the built-up area would have some environmental benefits.



- 16 -
5.13      The value of economic resources freed by moving general aviation
facilities from Paitilla to Tocumen alone would produce an economic return
of 24!  on the incremental cost of the new runway over the improvement alter-
native.
5.14      The economic return on the total cost of new runway construction
is calculated on the basis of estimated savings in aircraft operation due
to the new runway, the savings in runway maintenance cost and the market
value of the land at Paitilla which would become available for alternative
use when the new runway is constructed. The introdaction of wide-bodied
aircraft is expected to result in a savings of about USO1 per passenger-
mile over the operating cost of existing jet aircraft such as Boeing 7071'
or DouglasDC0-8's. On the basis of the average stage length of about 1,000
miles for tlhe international passengers using Tocumen, the potential savings
per passenger trip would be about $10. Wide-bodied jets are expected to
carry about 10, of Panama's international passenger traffic in 1975, with
the percentage increasing to about 27% in 1985. Beyond 1985 no further
increase in this percentage is assumed in the present analysis.
5.15      The savings in operating costs for the expected mix of future air-
craft together with the avoided costs of higher maintenance for the existing
runway if it were kept in service and the market value of Paitilla land
would yield an economic return of about 27Th over the expected economic life
of the new runway. If, as a sensitivity test, the proportion of internatione,1
passengers travelling by wide-bodied jet aircraft is assumed not to increase
after 1980, the return on the project would fall to 22,/.
5.16      During negotiations the Goverrncrnt's assurance was obtained that aftE
the completion of the Tocumen project general aviation activities at Paitilla
will be transferred to Tocumen and the vacated airfield made available for
commercial or urban development use.
C. Total Project Return and Incidence of Benefits
5.17      The economic return of the total project ranges between l8-20%
if no variation in the major assumptions is taken into consideration. When
both major assumptions are varied as discussed in Faras. 5.10 and 5.15, the
range of return would fall to between 15'% and 17%,.  If, in addition, it is
assumed that traffic actually fell short of evon the Tlow" traffic forecast
by 15% (Para. 4.02), the rate of return would still be in the range 13-16%.
5.18     INost of the quantified benefits which form the basis for the
economic return calculations are those accruing to passengers, the majority
of whom are foreigners, and to foreign-owned airlines. Howiever, in view of
the vital importance of the airport to the Panamanian economy as discussed
in Paras. 5.01 and 5.02, most of the benefits would eventually be returned
to Panama in the form of economic growth through the continued development
of the service sector of the economy. It should, moreover, be pointed out
that a large part of the benefits would be recaptured immediately by Panama
through increased user charges. As shown in Annex 3, the incremental fi-
nancial revenue of the Tocumen Airport due to increased and additional
charges would represent about 60% of the total estimated benefits to tile
passengers and airlines.



- 17 -
6. THE BORROWER
A. Introduction
6.01   Panamanian Cabinet Decree No. 13 of January 22, 1969 brought into
existence the Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC) as an autonomous state
agency to administer the various civil aviation activities in Panama
that were until then handled through three separate Government ministries.
The creation of DAC as a single authority thus provides an acceptable
frame-work for the development of civil aviation in Panama. The progress
made by DAC in the i ormulation of the Tocumen Intermati-onal Airport
Project is evidence of its effectiveness in pursuing this objective.
However, weaknesses exist pertaining to DAC's internal organization,
technical management, financial and economic planning, and accounting
and management information systems.  Specific financial objectives and
an adequate level of user charges have been agreed upon to ensure DAC's
financial viability.
B. Organization and Management
6.02   The functions of DAC cover the following three basic fields of
ci-vil aviation:
Airports - management, maintenance and technical operations.
Regulatory - negotiating bilateral aviation agreements and
granting of traffic rights.
Air Safety - establishing safety regulations and standards,
licensing of flying crews and issuing certificates
of airworthiness for flight equipment.
6.03   DAC has the right to own property, to manage its internal affairs
and to introduce the necessary regulations for guaranteeing the effective
performance of its functions. Its autonomy extends also over establish-
ment of employment policies and practices, introduction of user charges
and management of funds. Control is exercised by a Board of Directors
whose powers include the initial approval of operating and investment
budgets before presentation to the Government, the establishment of user
charges policies and rates, and the control of the salary budget. The
Board of Directors consists of the Minister of Government and Justice,
the Controller General and the Commander of the Air Force. The decree
also created the position of Director General who is the legal and
administrative head of DAC and is responsible to the Board. In addition,
there is an advisory board, with no executive powers, consisting of the
Director General of DAC (Chairman) and representatives of the Department
of Planning, the Institute of Tourism, tgLe Ministry of Public Works, the
national airlines, the foreign airlines and the National Pilots Associa-
tion.



- 18 -
6.04   The present Director General., a Panamanian national, appointed
when DAC was created, recognized the need for technical and management
assistance in setting up the new directorate and requested and received
the services of the Federal Aviation Agency of the United States (FAA)
in reviewing the organization and operations of DAC and recommending
improvements. Many of these have been implemented (the DAC organization
as of September 1970 is shown in Chart 1), but the future performance
and development of the organization, particularly in the light of its
growing needs, will be severely hampered by the general lack of experience
of much of its staff in civil aviation matters and airport development.
Further work is required to strengthen DAC particularly in the following
areas:
a. Organizational. Developing and implementing an organizatioinal
structure for the effective and efficient conduct of the
management processes that will enable DAC to fulfill its
statutory responsibilities and stated objectives.
b. Technical. Developing and implementing administrative and
technical planning and operational policies and procedures
for the achievement of efficient and economical airport
operation, consistent with providing a public service.
c. Financial Planning, General and Cost Accounting and Management
Information_Systems. Developing and implementing commercial
accounting, profit planning through profit centers and budgetary
control concepts and related reporting and analytical techniques,
systems and procedures.
d. Selection, Training and Development of Staff. Developing and
implementing personnel policies and practices for the selection,
induction and retention of properly qualified staff, identifying
staff training needs, and arranging training programs.
e. F-crnc-`.c.  Developing and implementing a system for the
coliLonx and evaluation of economic and statistical data
and the proper assessment of the economic aspects of aviation
agreements.
6.O5   DAC has a-reed to engage a firm (or firms) of management and
accounting cansu!t&nt- as soon as possible to recommend the necessary
changas and assist in i--plemeriting them through the introduction of
appropriate standardized systems, policies and procedures, J%struction
manuals and training programs (see para. 3.11).  The Bank j  prepared
and has made available to DAC draft terms of reference fcr   e
consultants formulatirig the objectives and scope of work ensaged.
6.06   DAC, as a state agency, is subject to audit by the Controller
Generalts office which follows a system of standard Governmental
accounting procedures. However, in the context of the introduction of



- 19-
modern business management and accoiuting concepts and of independent
analysis and verification thereof, the appointment of a professional
firm of public accountants as extermal auditors will be required as
from 1972 onwards. Agreement on this point was reached during nego-
tiations;
C. Present Financial Position
6.07   Prior to 1969, the financial information covering the handling by
the three Government m-inistries of the airports and related civil aviation
activities is inadequate and incomplete. The only reliable financial
statements available relate to the years 1969 and 1970 following the
creation of DAC. The concept of depreciation as an item of operating
expense has been introduced as from 1970 at the request of the Bank.
Summary Balance Sheets
(at end of calendar year)
B '000
ASSETS                                      1969                   1970
Current assets                          1,012                  1,082
Fixed assets                 10,726                  7,765
Less: Depreciation             --                      214
Net fixed assets                       10,726                   7,551
Deferred charges
- Feasibility studies                  152                    212
TOTAL ASSETS                      11,890                  8,845
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities                        166                    248
Long-term debt                                                    706
Government equity:
Net worth of assets
Transferred to DAC   10,737                  6,186
Earmed surplus             987                  1,705
Total equity                           11,724                  7,891
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY      11,890                  8,845



- 20 -
6.o8      For 1969, the current assets include a cash balance of B 620,000
which shows a healthy cash position in the first year of DAC's operations,
bearing in mind that out of a Government cash grant of B 1,147,000 during
the year, B 970,000 was paid back within the year.
6.og      For 1970, the cash balance content of the current assets stands
at B 759,000, and out of a Government cash grant-in-aid for capital con-
struction projects of B 797,000 during the year, B 378,000 was paid back
within the year. The value of fixed assets originally transferred to DAC
upon its creation have been readjusted on the books. Adjustments have been
made, in particular, in the values of Tocumen and Paitilla airfield lands,
and the values of runways and buildings have been reduced by the amount of
accumulated depreciation which should have been charged for wear and tear
(an average of 5% per year over 15 years). The 1970 figures refl-ect the new
fixed asset values, corresponding reductions also having been made in the
equity interest of the Government in DAC.
D. User Charges and Level of Earnings
6.10      Airport user charges are established through resolutions passed
by the DAC Board of Directors. In the absence of an accounting system
for determining the profitability of the various airport services so that
pricing decisions can be taken with the full knowledge of costs, user
charges are at present based on assumptions of what the business or trade
that the users represent can bear. (See Annex 5 for a detailed list of
these rates at Tocumen.) A fair and equitable basis for establishing user
charges backed by rationally developed pricing decisions remains to be
established, keeping in mind the need to recapture for the Panamanian econ-
omy a substantial part of the benefits of investments in the airport through
user charges. The principal cost centers of the airport and general and
administrative activities must therefore be identified and a cost accounting
system developed for allocating direct and indirect costs to the areas of
activity such as landing, terminal. hangars, other leased areas, etc.  The
review and implementation of these concepts are included in the terms of
reference for the management and accounting consulting services referred to
in para. 6.05.
6.11      The main source of revenue at Tocumen Airport consists of landing
fees. Other sources include concession fees, rentals for office and counter
space occupied by airlines in the terminal building, hangar rentals, fuel
tax and departure tax (introduced in January 1971, at the rate of B 2.00
per departing international passenger). Income statements for 1969 and
1970 are shown in Table 4. Past earnings have been satisfactory. However,
existing user charges will not be adequate to cover the costs of the projected
expansion and improvements of facilities and services. Maintaining the
landing fee at the rate of B 1.00 per 1,000 kg of actual take-off weight
for international flights at Tocumen wouid result in substantial losses
through 1981, and there is a need for an increase in the landing fee rate
(see para. 6.14).



- 21 -
E. Financing Plan
6.12      A suimmary of the financing plan is presented in the following
statement showing the funds required and the sources of such funds during
the five-year construction period (1971 through 1975):
Funds required                       B million                 %
Proposed IBRD project and land          35.5                  93.1h
Other capital expenditures               1.0                   2.6
Additions to working capital             1.5                   4.0
Total requirements           38.0                 100.0
Sources of funds
Internally generated funds               3.5                   9.2
Less: debt service                        .5                   1.3
Net internally generated funds           3.0                   7.9
Goverment equity contribution           1.2                    3.2
Borrowings:
Proposed IBRD loan                   20.0                   52.6
Government loan                      13.8                   36.3
Total borrowings                        33.                  7679
Total sources                '3TO                 100.0
6.13      Other capital expenditures include B 149,000 to be spent in
1971 for improvements to buildings and acquiring additional equipment
(mainly fire fighting) at Tocumen. They also include B 861,000 for
the development on a modest scale of other airports in Panama. Additions
to working capital include a cash build-up which reaches over B 2 million
in 1975. This le-vel of cash is in excess of DAC!s operating requirements,
but it may  be  useful to finance possible project costs overruns0
6.14      DAC's net intemally generated funds are estimated at
B 3.0 million, or about 8.o0< of the total financial requirements.
Although such a contribution by DAC may appear low, it is adequate
during this period of excepti.onally high capital expenditures which will
increase the gross fixed assets of DAC by more than 4OO% in a relatively
short peri.od of time. In order to make this low contribution, however,
it will be necessary for DAC to increase the level of user charges,
particularly the landing fee rate. The financial projections assume
that the landing fee rate will be increased from B leO0 per 1,000 kg of
maximum permiss ble take-off weight to B 1.50 effective July 1, 1972, and
to B 2.00 effective July 1, 1974. Such a rate would be in line with
what is being charged at comparable international airports in the area.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the level



- 22 -
of user charges and the timing of their imposition during the construc-
tion period of the project, with the understanding that such charges
may have to be changed, with the agreement of the Bank, once the results
of the management and accounting ccisultants' study on user charges are
available.
6.15      The proposed Bank lean would cover the estimated foreign exchange
costs of the project. The projections assume that the Bank loan would
bear interest at 7 1/4% p.a. and would be repayable over 20 years, includ-
ing a 4-year grace period. Commitment charges and interest during the
construction period will not be capitalized. The Government loan would
be interest free (this subsidy is more than offset by the fact that Tocumen
is covering the losses substained by the other airports). Agreement was
reached during negotiations that this loan would be repaid in 14 years
(from 1976 through 1989) in equal semi-annual installments. However, the
Government has undertaken that it will agree to a relaxation of the
repayment schedule as may be necessary to ensure that DAC will always have
adequate cash balances to meet its operating requirements.
6.16      The financing plan is satisfactory.  However, to ensure that
the project will not be delayed because of unforeseen shortage of funds,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will
provide DAC with such funds as may be necessary to complete the project,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
F. Future Earnings and Financial Position
6.17      Projected income statements through 1984 are sh1x,,,n in Table 4.
Operating revenues are based on the projected traffic growth and expanded
terminal building facilities with the increases in rates discussed in
paragraph 6.14.
6.18      The tlfo main items of operating expenses are salaries and wrages
and depreciation. The existing staffing level is reasonable for present
requirements (see Chart 1). The projections of salaries and wages are
based on the Bank's and DiC's judgement of the requirements for operating
the new facilities, and provide for increases in manpower from 1972 to
l975, especially in 1975 (see Chart 2). Agreement on the projected
staffing level was obtained during negotiations, with the imderstanding
that the results of the management and accounting consultants' study
would form the basis for future decisions. Other operating costs will
increase with the growth of activities and general annual increases in
prices. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis at standard
rates (see Annex 8). The expenditures of B 500,000 for management and
national aviation plan consulting services are written off in equal amounts
over a period of 10 years starting in 1975.



- 23 -
6.19      The net income of Tocumen Airport is expected to drop in 1975 and 1976
due to the increase in staff to handle the new facilities and to the
impact of the depreciaticn of those facilities (starting July 1, 1975). In
addition, the financial performance by DhC as a whole is affected by the un-
profitable operations of the five airports other than Tocumen. They serve
mostly domestic carriers and general aviation. The landing fee charges for
domestic carriers are one-fourth of the existing rates for international
flights, and the frequency of the flights is low ( though in some cases
daily); consequently, revenues are insufficient to cover the operating costs
of these airports.
6.20      The projected cash flow (see Table 5) indicates that DAC should
nevertheless be able to cover its cash operating expenses, its debt
service requirements and, at least for the 9 year period following
completion of the project, finance from internally generated funds the
further expansion of aviation infrastructure facilities in Panama. Those
objectives can be met, although the rate of return on average net fixed
assets in use would be as low as 1.8% in 1976, increasing progressively
to 6.8% in 1980 and 16.7% in 1984 (see Table 6). Pending the results
of the study on user charges, it would be inapprcpriate to insist on
further rate increases above those which have already been assumed in
the proJections.  The forecast rates of return, although low in the years
immediately following the completion of the project, are acceptable;
they reflect the assumption that the new facilities will not be used at
full capacity until the early 1980's
6.21      There is a risk, however, that such returns may not be achieved
if DAC does not exercise proper ccntrol over its costs. During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached that DAC will take all necessary measures,
including adjustments in rates, to achieve a rate of return of at least
1.5% in 1976, 2.5% in 1977, 3.5% in 1978, 5% in 1979 and 6.5% in 1980 and
thereafter.
6.22      DAC's financial viability could also be endangered if it were
to incur substantial additional debt. During negotiations DAC undertook
not to incur long-term debt (other than that incurred for the project)
without the Bank's prior agreement unless its net cash generation in the
prior fiscal year is at least 1.4 times the maxizmm debt service requirements.
The projections indicate that in effect this limitation would prevent
DAC from incurring any additional debt without the Bank's prior approval
before 1981.
6.23      Balance sheet forecasts of DAC through 1984 are given in Table
7. After completion of the project the Paitilla airfield adjacent to
Panama City would be closed and its activities transferred to Tocumen.
The Paitilla Airport is located in a high value urban location. The
release of this land, however, will not generate any cash for DAC,
since it is proposed to be a transfer back to the Government with a
corresponding reduction in its equity participati.on, as shown in the



- 24 -
balance sheets.
6.24      After the conpletion of the project, additional capital expen-
ditures will have to be made. Investments at Tocumen will consist of:
a) the resurfacing of the old Tocumen runway during the years 1976 and 1977,
requiring an expenditure of B 500,000; b) an additional satellite, at an
estimated cost of B 4 million during the years 1980 and 1981 (the projected
traffic through the new Tocumnen passenger terminal is estimated to exceed
the design capacity of the bv-Cb-.dAing in the early 80's, aiid Ln order to avoid
con,;i.tion, an a0diticrnal satl~>.ite will have to be built); c) improve-
men,s ,'.o t,'ne newT Tccurnieri. rur7iay and taxiway at a cost cf B 1 million
during 19C3 and 1,234; and d) r'eplacement of retired eaLiioment in the years
1981 t1rS;-  -1i 3 witIfh an aunTual expenditure of B 200,000.  The develop-
ment o> other ai.rports will ra>quire B 230,(O)0 an-fixally through 1981, and
B 550,000 (%ainilv for replacemncnt of retVred eql4ipmerit,, amwaally thereafter.
Such expenditures, to be finanred from in'ernally generated funds, are
reflected in the growth of fixed assets in the balance sheets.
6.25      DAC's financial position is exDected to remain sound.  The level
of cash will be adequate to meet cash operating r8qn-.reil, bn6s and there
should be some surplus cash available to finance tecttirnK ;gical iniprovements
likely to be deveIloi:e- particularly with regard to sa> s and operational
efficiency.  Long-term debt will decrease from a peak o_ 3 32.3 m--lion
in 1975 due to the borrowings for the project to B 14.22 im llion by 1984.



- 25 -~
7.  AGREEMTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  Provision of technical assistance tc DAC by a competent
and experienced civil aviation agency to develop aircraft
operating procedures (para. 3.10).
(b)  Retention by DAC of management and accounting consultants
(para. 3.11).
(c)  Retention of consultants by DAC to develop a National
Aviation Plan (para. 3.11).
(d) Arrangements by DAC for supervision of construction
(para. 3.12).
(e) Implementation of regulations by DAC to control airport
obstructicns (para. 3.16)
(f)  Development by the Government of land use planning
controls (para. 3.17).
(g)  Continuous monitoring by DAC of project costs (para. 3.22).
(h)  Closing of general aviation facilities at Paitilla airfield
(para. 5.16).
(i)  Appointment of a professional firm of public accountants
as DAC's external auditors (para. 6.06).
(j)  The level of user charges and the timing of their
imposition (para. 6.14).
(k)  Provision by the Government of such funds as may be
necessary to complete the project (para. 6.16).
(1)  Implementation by DAC of all necessary measures to achieve
a rate of return on net fixed assets of at least 1.5% in
1976, 2.5% in 1977, 3.5% in 1978, 5% in 1979, and 6.5% in
1980 and thereafter (para. 6.21).
(m) Observance by DAC of a debt limitation test of l1.4 (para. 6.22).
7.02      It will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan that DAC
will have appointed the management and accounting consultants referred to
in sub-paragraph 7.01 (b) above (para. 3.11).



- 26 -
7.03      It is recamiended that the foreign exchange costs of consultants'
services incurred after August 1, 1970 and estimated to be less than
US$800,000 equivalent, be financed retroactively (para. 3.24).
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million
for a term of 20 years including a 4 year grace period.
July 13, 1971



ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF TOCUM1 INT ROATICUAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Definitions and Descriptions of Navigational Aids
Instrument Landing System - ILS
The ILS is an electronic system which defines the approach path
to a runway by means of radio transmissions to receivers in the aircraft.
The system is composed of a localizer, glide slope and marker beacons.
The localizer provides lateral guidance along the extended runway center-
line. The glide slope provides vertical guidance for a descending flight
path at angles normally between 2.00 and 3.00 with the horizontal.
Marker beacons provide a signal to indicate passage of an aircraft over
designated points along the flight path.
The outer marker location indicates the point at which the
initial approach altitude (level flight) intercepts the glide slope signal.
The middle marker is located at a distance corresponding to the 60 m
(200-ft) altitude on the glide slope. Such a system meets the reqaire-
ments of a Category I installation. For Category II installations an
inner marker is provided to indicate the 30 m (100-ft) altitude on the
glide slope and there are additional requirements for runway lighting and
pilot training to enable landing to be made in even lower weather minima.
Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Radio Range - VOR
The VOR is an electronic system which provides continuous bear-
ing information with coverage limited only by line of sight. It consists
of a radio transmitter installation transmitting a coded and directional
signal which identifies the station and provides azimuth information to
the aircraft. It can be used as an enroute aid to navigation between
airports or as a terminal landing aid at an airport.
Distance Mqeasuring Equipment - DME
This is an electroric system which tells the pilot the distance
the aircraft is to or f-rom a point, usually a VOR station. CDmbining
this wzith the VOR bearing information gives the pilot a means of accurate
navigation on or off the airways.



AND Z 2
PANiAMIA
APPRAISAL OF TOCUI'IE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Considerations in Comparing the Reconstruction
of the Existing Runway with
the Construction of a New Runwqay
The existing concrete runway built in 1948 by the US Bureau of
Public Roads requires lengthening and strengthening to cater to the needs
of aircraft currently using the airport. Its present length is 2,700 m
(8,800 ft) whereas the length recommended in the Regional Air Development
Plan of ICAO is 3,60 m (11,975 ft).
In an addendum to the original feasibility study, the consult-
ants analyzed in greater detail the alternatives!
A. Reconstruct and extend the existing runway; and
B. Construct a new parallel runway.
The consultantst cost estinates indicate that the direct costs of
improving the existinig rumway would be about the same as the cost of a new
one, i.e. about 3,11 million.  Their estimates of indirect eceanoic losses
during the period of runway shutdown iwere exaggerated.  If the improvements
to the existing runiay were constructed in stages to satisfy the inmediate
needs and minimize disruption to traffic it would be possible to solit the
works into twTo phases with O8.o million invested initially and ^3.0 million
several years later.  This phasing of work is used as the basis of the econ-
omic analysis of the alternatives.
Alternative A.
In this alternative the existing runway would be lengthened ald
strengthened with asphaltic concrete. The main advantages of this solu-
tion is that the existing concrete pavement, although over twenty years
old and showing signs of progressive cracking, has a considerable strength
still left and would provide an excellent base upon which to build up a
runway - by stage construction overlay if necessary.
There are several disadvantages with this solution: the method
of reconstruction of the runway, while still maintaining it in use, would
be difficult and it is inevitable that some restrictions and disruptions
to traffic would ensue. There would be a danger of accidents involving
aircraft.
The method of reconstruction proposed entails lengthening the
existing runway while maintaining flying operations on a restricted
length of the existing surface.  After completion of the new extension,
it would be used while the existing surface was strengthened.



ANiTEX 2
Page 2
The orientation of the existing runway is such that there is a
significant terrain obstruction to the north. The rising slopes of the
continental divide intrude into the aircraft departure path geometry as
defined in ICAO Annex 14, "Aerodromes" for main instrument runways. In
addition, there is a 0.9' effective longitudinal slope to the north on
the existing runway which is a considerable penalty when aircraft take
off up hill. Reconstruction of the runway would not eliminate this
penalty.
The result is that current aircraft operating procedures are
normally limited to permitting instru.ment approaches from the south on
runway 03 and take off to the south on runway 21.  Instrument approaches
from the north on runway 21 are only permitted if the ceiling is above
600 ft. Reconstruction of the existing runway, even including an Instru-
ment Landing System would not significantly improve this situation.
Alternative B
The new concrete runway wJould be 3,350 n x 45 m (11,000 x
150 ft) at this stage of development. Fhrther lengthening can be under-
taken as and when traffic warrants.
There are several advantages to the construction of a new paral-
lel  runway. The new alignment  ourald be about 3,000 ft away from the
existing runway. This would result in much less terrain obstruction to
the north of the runway, althsingh the ICAO standards for straight line
departure path geometry would still not quite be met.
There would be no interruption to traffic during the construc-
tion period.
There would be a considerable increase in airport capacity
which, although !.tot nened.d at t;Jo present time, would be of significant
importance wiien t'le general avia uion airport at Paitilla in Panama City
is closed in about' 1975.
The dit.dvanta,es would include the acquisition of additional
property axn-t the :7aeat½-on of rew fLif_et r,-;hs.  The ezrs-ting rtnwary would
be maintiairni dn s- rv.i^e on a restri,ted ucitght basis.



AT!E1C 3
PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF THE TOCUMN INTEIRNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Economic Benefits of Air Terminal Construction
Publications on the economic analysis of air terminal projects
are few and far between,2/ The paucity of reference materials is mainly
due to the fact that economic benefits are rarely evaluated when consider-
ing investments in air terminals. Instead, air terminal investment decisiors
are made mainly using so-called "requirement criteria", which are estab-
lished solely on the basis of the volume and types of traffic to be served.
In this approach the engineer's or architect's opinion of what is the
required size of facilities is generally accepted as final and little, if ary,
analysis of the economy of such investment is attempted.
The Bank staff, therefore, had to devise a method for the economic
evaluation of the present project. This annex explains the present thinking
of the Bank staff on the subject.
After having considered various possible alternative approaches,
the Bank staff concluded that the estimate of benefits should be based on
those benefits directly resulting from the air terminal construction, i.e.
time saved by airlines and their passengers as a result of improved handling
of traffic. (The detailed steps followed in estimating the monetary value
of time are explained in Annex 4.)
This approach is considered to be a logical one because the very
purpose of investing in air terminal facilities is to facilitate the flow
of passengers and aircraft. If the need for traffic facilitation is not
present, it is difficult to see how a case for investment in an air terminal
project can be made. The approach is also relevant to economic analysis
because it enables one to determine the optimum size and timing of terminal
construction by considering possibilities of trade-offs between the marginal
benefits and the marginal costs of the project, i.e. the amount of time loss
aircraft and their passengers are willing to incur in the absence of an
incremental investment (e.g. one more gate ) and the amount of money airlines
and their passengers are prepared to pay for improved service resulting from
the incremental investment. In the following, other possible approaches
considered but not adopted are explained (A) and the incidence of benefits
is discussed (B).
a/ Examples of those available are: Commission on the Third London Airport,
Papers and Proceedings, Volume VII, London 1970; and Gary Frormm, EconomLc
Criteria for Federal Aviation Agency Expenditures, United Research
Incorporated, Cambridge, M4assachusetts, 1962.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
A. Other Approaches Considered
1.    Argument for self-evident justification
Some airport planners argue that the justification of an air
terminal project should be self-evident because a lack of decent facilities
to serve passengers and aircraft would, in the long run, discourage traffic
flow through the airport, which would adversely affect the country's or
region's economic development. Any attempt to evaluate the economic justifi-
cation of an air terminal project, according to this argument, is redundant.
This argument, however, is based on a misunderstanding of the purpose of
economic analysis. The need for economic analysis is felt not because of
any doubts as to the need for better airport terminal facilities but rather
as a means to determine the proper size and timing of the investment in such
2.    Financial benefits as a proxy for economic benefits
The possibility of using the incremental financial revenue
attributable to the airport terminal investment as a proxy for its economic
benefits was considered. Under this approach, it would be assumed that the
present levels of user charges would be raised after completion of the pro-
ject and the incremental revenue would be compared with the investment cost
to obtain a rate of return. This approach is unsatisfactory because, to the
extent that the airport enjoys a monopolistic position in relation to its
users, the ability to collect additional revenue is not necessarily related
to the improvement of services it renders to the users. Furthermore, the
use of the incremental revenue in this manner implies that the current level
of user charges equals the economic benefits the users receive. In order
to establish whether there is a reasonable relationship between the charges
the user pays and the benefits he receives, the "economic benefits" to the
user would have to be analysed.
3.    Argument that economic development is the ultimate objective
of any airport project
This argument is sometimes put forward as support for
the idea that estimates of economic benefits of an air terminal project
should be based on the projectts effect on overall economic development,
rather than on any measurement of the direct benefits. This implies that
the latter is not an accurate indicator of the project's worth to the economny
This argument is not convincing because, if a project's direct benefits are
insignificant, it is difficult to imagine how the investment could make an
important contribution to economic development. The argument also seems to
be based on the notion that the relationship between direct benefits and
overall economic impact is not uniform among projects, i.e. $1 million saved
by air passengers may have a greater impact on economic development than
the same amount saved by highway users, or vice versa. This implies a value
judgement on income distribution, a question on which there is no reasonable
consensus among economists and which is certainly not an issue that can be
dealt with in the context of a project appraisal.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
4.   Tourist spending as economic benefits
Conceptually, the incremental net tourist spending resulting from
an airport project can be ccnsidered as representing the benefits of the
investment. The difficulty with this approach is one of measurement. It is
difficult enough to determine the incremental amount which tourists would
spend in the country if and when an airport is improved; it is almost impossible
to identify that part of the incremental spending resulting from the airport
improvement as distinct from that resulting from investments other than in
the airport (i.e. hotels, restaurants, surface transportation, etc.) which
are required to induce the increased spending by tourists.
B. Incidence of Benefits
One problem with user benefits in international airport projects
such as Tocumen in Panama is the fact that a large part of the benefits
would accrue to foreigners - foreign passengers and foreign aircraft using
the airport - and that it is not immediately clear that the benefits accruing
to foreigners would eventually be recaptured by the Panamanian economy. This
would make it appear that the Panamanian Government may be investing mainly
to benefit foreigners. That this is more apparent than real may become
evident by considering the following:
1.    Panama can recapture a part, although never all, of the benefits,
accruing to foreigners by increasing user charges at the airport
(the proposed increase in aircraft landing fee from B 1.00 per
ton of gross take-off weight to B 2.00 and the institution of
an airport tax of B 2.00 per departing international passenger
will enable DAC to capture about 60% of the estimated benefits
to passengers and airlines arising from the entire project);
2.   Airline fares to Panama will, in the long-run, reflect the
net cost savings by the airlines serving Panama;
3.    Even if a certain part of the benefits is not recaptured
by Panama through the above two means, the improvements
cannot be considered a loss to Panama because any high cost
of serving Panama using the existing airport would tend to
increase prices of foreign goods and services in Panama and
reduce the prices realized from Panamanian exports; and
4.   Although, as said before, a quantification is not possible,
foreign passengers would spend more money in Panama than
previously, if visits to Panama become more convenient and
pleasant as a result of the airport improvements.
In addition, more frequent services to be provided by foreign air-
lines to Panama as a result of the airport improvement would be a benefit to
Panama. Regarding that part of benefits that will remain permanently in
foreigner's hands, it is reasonable to argue that such benefits retained by
foreigners be considered a reciprocation by Panama for the convenience and
savings obtained by Panamanian passengers and aircraft using foreign
airports which were already improved.



PAN{AMAA
APPRAISAL OF TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
a7
Monetary Value of Time Savedc
A. Passenger Time
The value of an air traveler's time is assumed to be equal to the
value that his employer puts on the traveler's time. No distinction is made
between small and large time savings.  (One minute saved is one tenth as
valuable as 10 minutes saved).2/ To take into account the fact that not all
travellers are employed, the non-business passengers are split into three
groups and their time valued as follows:
1. Heads of the family (30C of total traffic at present)
The value of their time is the same as that in
business travel.
2. Housewives and other persons older than 19 years (20% of
total)
For this group we assume 50% of the value of business
travel tima.
3. Persons under 19 years of age (15% of total)
No value is assumed for time savings to this group.
The annual income levels of all passengers travelling to Central
and South America in 1968 are available from the P namanian Government's
publications, and are sumnarized below:
Percentage
Income Levels                     Distribution
1.  Under $6,000                            13
2.  $6,oo - $9,999                          10
3.  $10,000 - $1h,999                       32
4.  $15,000 - $19,999                       13
5.  $20,000 - and over                      32
The distribution of all travellers to Central and South America
by trip purpose is shoam in the following table:
a/ This Annex explains only how the time value of air passengers at Tocumen
Airport was determined.  Concerming the broader question why time has a
monetary value and how valuations are made, there is a eoc--,derable body
of literature.  A brief reviewT of t,he literature isj £ ounw' in an annex to
the Bank Appraisal Report on the Third Highway Project for Finland. (Report
No. PTR-37, January 16, 1970).
b/ The Roskill Commission has a similar viev: "If small time s3wvings were to
be ignored, it would be impossible to take account of a gr-dlual sp,ed-uup
of travelling times occurring across a period of time." CcrnMssicn cn th(-
Th-.rd. Tcndor Airport, Papcro L:c Proc-cUr:gs, Vol, VI,, Patt 1  qaTt,r 2.



MMEX 4
Page 2
Purpose of Trip                         Percentage
Distribution
Business                                     35
Touring - Resort                             17
Visit Friends - Relatives                    21
Other Pleasure                               13
Personal Affairs                             14
As indicated above, 35e are business travelers, while 65,-' are
non-business travelers.
To develop an average value of traveler's time, it was assumed
that:
TTorking time averages 1,850 hours per year.
Business travelers fall in income levels 3, 4, 5, of the
first table.
Holiday travelers fall into all income levels (1 up to
and including 5).
On the basis of the above, the per hour value of the business
traveler's time can be computed as follows:
1968 Income Category $       Aean $      Percent       Product $
10,000 - 15,000           12,500        41.6          5,200
15,000 -- 20,000          17,500        16.9          2,960
20,000 - and up           22,500        41.6          9,360
Total                         100.0        $17,520
The hourly value of businessmen's time in terms of the 1968
income levels, therefore is:
$17,520/1,850 = $9.17
Assuming a 65 annual increase in the income level between 1968 and 1970,
the value per hour in 1970 is:
$9.47(1.06)2 = $10.64
The average value for the holiday traveler's time is computed
similarly at $9.10, ilow the average hourly value of all passengers' time
can be calculated. In this calculation, the employer's overhead expense
uhick is asst,ed to be 2,; of the salary level is added to the value of
busitnssmen' s travel time on bu$isoss:



ALIIEX h
Pags 3
Business: total group         35% x $10.664 x 1.2 = $4.46
Pleasure: head of family      30% x $ 9.10       = $2.73
housewives, etc.   20C x S 14.55        $0.91
others             15% x t 0.00       = $0.00
Total average value ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..    8.10
An alternative estimate was also made assuming that the following
categories of passengers would consider their time savings as having only
1/3 the value of their average hourly earnings:
1. Travel on business outside the normal working hours;
2. Heads of family on vacation; and
3. Housewives and other persons older than 19 years.
On the above basis the average hourly time value of passengers is
$5.00.
B. Aircraft Time
The cost of aircraft per hour is ccmputed using the figures avail-
able in the publications of the U.S. Civil Aeronautic Board (CAB). The
distribution of aircraft types using the Tocinuen Airport was deternmined for
1970 from the Official Airline Guide. The future distribution of aircraft
types was estimated on the bases of the anticipated trend of growth in the
sizes of individual aircraft and of the passenger and cargo traffic forecast.
No supersonic aircraft were included in the calculation because
reliable data were not available and the timing and frequency of their arrival
at Tocumen could not be forecast at present. The average hourly costs of
aircraft (commercial value) for different years were estimated as follows
Aircraft         Average        1970         1975          1980         1 985
Class          Cost/Hour %Dist.Weighted %Dist .Wgtd. %Dist,Wghtd. %Dist.W4ghtd.
________            $          Cost $        Cost $       Cost $       Cost $
Wide body jets
(B747, DC10, etc) 2,100    0         -    3.3   69   7.7   162   19.2  403
Standard jets
(B707,DC8, etc)     850   63        535  63.0  535  63.0   535   63.0  535
Srnaller aircraft
(B727, DC9, DC6,
Electra, etc.)      4.80  37        178  33.7  162  29.3   141   17.8   05
Total                       713         766           838



Aml= 5
PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF TOCUMEN INTENATIONAL AIRPOR' PROJECT
Schedule of User Charges Rates at Tocumen
Fxtsting - September 1970
Landing LZees                         B 1 .00 per 1,000 kg of
actual take-off weight for
international flights as
obtained from the weight
and balance sheet submitted
by the operators of the air-
craft. Minimunm charge B 6.
Prior to July 1, 1969, this
rate was B- o.85 per 1,000 kg.
Billed monthly for regular
users.
B 0o25 per 1,000 kg of actual
take-off weight for internal
flights as obtained from the
weight and balance sheet sub-
mitted by the operator of the
aircraft.  Minimum charge
B 2.00. Billed monthby for
regular users.
Fuel Tax                                      B 0.015 per gal of aviation
fuel sold as obt'ained from
the daily report as submitted
by oil comp=anes to aircraft
operators. Billed monthly.
Rental of Space:
Passenger Terminal Building:
Commercial space                       -lowei floor B 200.00 per year
per m
-uppeE floor B 175.00 per year
per m
Airline Space
-lower floor                      -counter area B 100.00 per year
per m2
-area adjacent 2to counter B 75.C0
per year per m



AlNfNEK 5
Page 2
-other office and storage area
B 25.00 per year p6r m2
-upper floor                       -B 60.00 per year per m2
Premises or space outside passenger terminal building:
Freight Storage Area                   -B 35.00 per year per m2
Hangars and covered area               2B t5.00 per year per
Open Areas                             - B 1000 per year per m
Aircraft Parking                              B 0.10 per 1i000 kg of gross
landing weight per 24 hours or
fraction thereof. Minimum
charge B 3.00 or
a monthly parking fee of B 20.00
per aircraft per calender month,
if the fee is paid within the
first 5 days of the month in
question.
Billboards, Posters and
Advertisements                                B 20.00 per month per m2 at
terminal building
B 10.00 per month per m2 out-
side terminal building.
Aj!eed Increases in Rates
Landing Fees                                  International flights from
existing B 1.00 per 1,000 kg
of actual take-off weight to
B 2.00 per 11,000 kg of n2axianum
permissible take-off weight.
The increase takes place B 0.50
OffeotliVe JdY 1, 1972 and an
additional B 0.50 effectivo Jt:-.-
July 1, 1974.
Departure Tax                                  Introduced effective January 16,
1971 of B 2.00 per departing
international passengers



ANNEX 6
PANAMa
APPRAISAL OF TOCUa   INTERNATIMAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in FinancialProjections
1.        The project design and construction period is assumed to be 1971
through 1975; with the new runway facilities becoming operational on July 1,
1974, and the new terminal building complex on July 1, 1975.
2.        Interest and commitment charges during the construction period are
treated as current non-operating costs and included in the income statement.
3.        There is no interest attached to the Government loan.
4.        The IBRD loan would carry a 7 1/4% interest and would be repayable
in 32 equal semi-annual installments beginning January 1, 1976.
5.        The Government loan would be repaid in 28 equal semi-annual
installments starting June 30, 1976.
6.        Annual depreciation of fixed assets is calculated on the straight
line basis, and the following rates apply:
Land                                     -None
Buildings and improvements                - 5%
Runways, taxiways and aprons             - 5%
Lighting system                          -10%
Vehicular equipment                      -20%
Radio and meteorological equipment       -10%
Office furniture and equipment           -10%
Other equipment                          -10%
7.        The cost of management and accounting and National Aviation Plan
consulting services is treated as a deferred charge through 1974 and then
written off in equal installments from 1975 through 1984.
8.        Annual salary increases are calculated at 5% of prior year manpower
costs.
9.        Employee benefits are in the form of contributory social security
taxes payable both by employer and employee. DaC's contributicn amounts to
7% of salary.
10.       The average rate of annual increase in cash expenses excluding
additional manpower costs is of the order of 10%.



PANAMA
Appraisal of Tocumen International Airport Project
DAC INVESTMENT PROGRAM 1 971 THROUGH 1 975*
Expressed in Thousands of Balboas
TOTAL        1971         1972        1973         1974         1975
NEW4 PROJECT
Tocumen
Runways                      9,600                                              9,600
Buildings                  19,800                                                           19,800
Equipment                    4,900                                              1,400        3,5o0
Subtotal                3h,300                                              11,000       23,300
Consultant's Fees,
Management & National
Aviation Plan                  500          50          225          225                   -
Total                   34,800           50          225         225        11,000       23,300
LAND - TOCUMEN                        750          750
IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING
TOCUMEN FACILITIES                    149         149
OTHER AIRPORTS & DAC HQ.
Runways                        609          269         190           50                       05
Buildings                      200          -            50           50           50           50
Equipment,                     933         873           15           1 5           t5          15
Total                     1,742       1,1h2          255         115           115          115,
GRAND TOTAL                     3411d41       2,091         480          3h0        11,115      23215
e*The investments are listed in the year in which the facilities are put into
service.
July 8, 1971



TABLE 2
PANAMA
Appraisal of Tocumen Intemational Airport Project
Esstimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Lisbursemexits
IBRD Fiscal Years                             at end of Quarter
Quarter                                      (US.t 000)
1971/72
December 31, 1971                                  1,000
March 31, 1972                                     1,750
June 30, 197250
1 972/73
September 30, 1972                                 3,350
December 31, 1972                                  14,150
March 31, 1973                                     6,300
June 30, 1973                                      8, 400
1 973/74
September 30, 1973                                1o,600
December 31, 1973                                 1 2,750
March 31, 1974                                    114,250
June 30, 1974                                        75c
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                17,250
December 31, 1974                                 18,250
March 31, 1975                                    19 3'0
June 30, 1975                                     20,000
July 8, 1971



PAAM
Appraisal of Tocumen International Airport Project
PROJECTION OF IRAFFIC
aaseoniers (Thousand persons)
Arr:ivals __      _  __                                        Departures
Foreign      Pqnma       Oipn2l                                 riginal                            Grand      Domestic
Visitors   Residents      Rer±'ents     Transit     Total     Depv.rture     Transit     Total     Total    Passengers
1969     128.9        4L3.J'         94.4         1.99.3     396.0        ?20.5       1.99.3      JI9,A    815.8         f1.5
(actual)
1975     220.0 '       °3.0          30.0         31'V       643.0        36n.o        310.0      670.0    1313.0       180.0
1980     350.0        '5.')         35.0         1,60.0                   70.0        460.n   1,030.o    2020.0         320.0
1985     570.0        230.0          142.0        700.0     1542.0        870.o        700.0      1570.0   3112.0        510.0
1990     930.0        370.0          50.0        10".,      P 370.0      1550.0       1020.0      2570.0  h9ho.o         825.0
Car_o (Tons)          Thternationnal              ori+14"               Total
1968(actual)             23,159                   2,161L                 25,323
1975                     53,000                   1.'^n                  7,000
1980                     8?,o0o                   6,200,                 95,200
i985                    1414,000                  9,500                 153, 500
1990                    220,000                  11,600                 234,,600
Juae 7, 1 971



PANAMA
Aporotoat of To-uo.eE  Ixtoeorional Airport Project
'AC - PROJECTED INCDME STATEMENT
(Euprooood in th--xondo of Beib-ox.  Balbxo  1.00 - US $O.0i)
1969          1970          1971          1977          1973          1974          1973           1976          1977          1978          1979           1990          1981          1982          1993           1984
TOCUMEN AIRPORT
OPERATING RHvENUFS
t udixg feee                                 643           739           834          1135          1482          1879           2333          2522          2729          2952          3192           3451          3941          4500          5140          5369
Fuel tax                                     430           478           506           520           542            573          612            659           714           776           846            922          1005          1093           Lt88          1287
Re-t4lo                                      383           421           500           520            540           560          1060          1608          1665          1730           1803          18B3          2000          2200           2300          2400
Departure t. x                                -             -            50           540           580           630            708           720           858           954           t064          1190          1328          1500          1700           1900
Other                                        114           115           204           210            221           289           361           382           404           430           460            494l          AUa 580                    A63            .10
Sub-Total                               1590           1753          2544          2925          3365          3931          5074          3891          6370           6842          7365          7942          8807           0873         10958          12136
OPERATENG EXPENSES
Dirext 0 & M costo                           401           544           797           850           939          1089          1401           1474          1552          1631          1725           1812          1915          2106          2317           2549
Drprecietion                                 _              87            99           100           108           418          1398           2068          2093          2093           2093          2093          2193          2233          2298           Z343
Applied Eneodn   PDAC 113                    161           360           48i           614            650           691           775           012           046           886            924           969          1010          11il           1222          1344
Sob-ToCal                                582            991          1377          1572          1697          2198          3574          4354          4493          4610           4742          4674           5118          5470          5837           6236
Not opertirtg income                            1008           768          1167           1353          1668          1733          1500          1537          1877          2232           2623          3066          3689          4403           5121          5900
MON-O70EATING ITEMS
18RD lxxx ixtooert & tcoort.  hbrg-x          -             -             46           318            700          1157          3421          1438          1386          1331           1272          1208          1140          1067            989           904
2et i-c                                1008            762          1121          1032           968           576             79            99           491           3D1          1351           1860          2549          3336          4132           4996
OTER0 AIRP0RTS b 7N6PPL7ED OaC-8CS
OPERATING REEENUES
Other  irports                                47            74            90           100            110           130           150           170           190           210            230           250           270           290            310           330
Other revoxuro- DOC 0HS                        S             7             8              9            10            11            12            13            14             15            16            17            18             19            20            21
Oub-T.tol                                 52            81            98           109           120           141           162           183            204           225           246           267            208           309           330            351
OpERATING EXPENSES
Direct 0 & 9 co-t  - other xirporto          119           271           310           414           455            548           602           641           679           725            770           820           862           948           1042          1146
Nepr-ctltin - other *irpuTtt                 -             85           196           210            215           222           212           211           223           235            248           260           273           223            263           303
U-apptIed PAC HQS coxto                       45            80           120           153            162           173           194           203           212           221            231           242           252            277           3035          335
Sob-Totld                               164            446           626           777           832           943          1008          1055           1114          1101          1249           1322          1387          1448          1610           1764
Net incote <loso)                      <112>          '363>        (528>          668)         (712          k             <846>            2(9                       (336)        (103          (03             109>         <119         270                 l>
TOTAL NET                               896            397           593           367           256          ,226          <767>        <773       C>          < 455>                 348           8D5          1450          2197          2852           3563
SFPCIAL ITEMS
Specia1 adjuot-etro (dobtx)                 <86>           96         <212>
Subsidy net 4 doo-tioxo                      377           419
NETr INCOME - Cuoxlotlvc to
BOaulc- Shoot                      987          3705          2086           24353         2709          2483          1136           943            524           469           817          1622          3072           5269          8121          11684
July 8, 1971



PANAMA
Appraisal of Tocunen International Airport Project
DAC - PROJECTED CASH FLOW
(xpressed in Thousands of Balbpas: Belboa 1.00 = US$1.00)
1969       1970        1971        1972        1973        1974        1975       1976        1977        1978         1979         1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
0O0RCES OF FUNDS
Net ioroms illoss)                            987        718         381         367         256        (226)       (767)       (773)       (419)      ( 55)          348          805       1,450       2,197       2,852       3,563
Add:  D0,reciation                             -          182         310        334         339         657       1,627       2,297      2,334       2,347        2,360         2,373       7,486       2,486       2,576       2,666
'sortieatioo/specijl items           ( 91)       1321)        212          -           -          -           50          50          50          50           50           50          50          50          50          50
Total  internal                            896         579         9           701         595         431         910       1,574      1,965       2,342        2,758        2,228       3,986       4,733       5,478       6,279
IBRD loan - To-nne  project                                        1,000       3,150       8,600       5,500       1,750
Governnent loan - Toroner project                                     750      2.350       6,400       3.990         310
Total borrowings                                                 1,750       5,500      15,000       9,490       2,060
Government finonning                       1,147         797         440
Suppliers credits                                        851
Total other sources                      1,147       1,648         440
Total externul                           1,147       1,648       2,190       5,500      153000       9,490       2,060
Total sources                            2_043       2,227       3 093       6,201      15,595       9,921       2_970       1_574      1_965       2.342        2.758        3_228       3.986       A.733       5.47        2
APPLICATION OF Fv0ND8
Construction- Tocuen project                              100      1,650       5,500      15,000       9,490       3,060
Constrnction - Tocumen satellite                                                                                                                                                 2,000       2,000
Cos tructi   - Toune_   other                 IS1         248         169                                                        250         250                                                           200       1,200         200
Construction   - o        rp                   98       1,317         291        25          115         115         115         230         230         230          230          230         230         550         550         550
Conaultancy fees                              152          60                                                                     _           _           _          _             _                      ___
Total capitol projects                      401      1.723       7,090       5,755      13  115      9.605       3.17         480          480         230          230        2.230       2,230         750       1.750         750
Sepaynent - 0500 loan                                                                                                            695         745         805          860          925         990       1 065       1,140       1,225
Repoynent - IoBernnent loan                                                                                                      800       1,000       1,000        1,000        1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
f,epaynent - GOo.rnue.t financing             971         378
Repayment - Supplier s credits                 _          137         106        106         106         106         106         106          70
Totol repayPent                             971         515         106        106         106         106         106          1    .60 1,           805            0,925                 1,990       2,065       2,140       2,225
lncrease/(decrcase) in working capital
capital - encluding cash                      51        1152)         10         28          32          40         108          89          21          17           18           19          59          78          63          66
Total applicution                         1.423      2,088       2,236       9,g9       13.233       9,751          8        210         2,316      2_05            100        4,i         4.279       j      ,               3-04j
CASH POSITION
Surplus (deficiency) - annual                 620         139         887        312        342          170        (409)       (596)       (351)        290         650          (946)       (293)      1,84i2      1,525       3,238
balance - foi          620         759       1,646       1,958      2,300        2,470       2,051      1,455        1,104      1,394       2,044          1,098         805       2,645      4,170        7,408
Jully 8, 1971



PANAMA
Appraisal of Tocumen International Airport Project
DAC - FINANCIAL RATIOS
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual rate of return on
net fixed assets 7.             8.4      6.0     8.6      8.3    11.7       7.0     2.3      1.8     2.7      3.8      5.1      6.8     8.8    11.1    13.7    16.7
Operating ratio                 0.45    0.78    0.76    0.77    0.73    0.77    0.88    0.89    0.85    0.82    0.79    0.75    0.72    0.70    0.66    0.64
Times interest earned            -        -     13.89    2.15    1.37    0.80    0.46    0.46    0.70    0.96    1.27    1.67    2.27    3.06    3.88    4.94
Debt Service co-/erage           -        -       7.64    2.40    1.61    1.26    1.53    0.99    1.05    1.17    1.29    1.42            1.64   1.85    2.07    2.30
Current ratio                   6.10    4.36    5.30    5.89    6.45    6.55    1.37  Nl.ol    0.87    0.98    1.22    0.83    0.73    1.38    1.86    2.81
Liquid (quick) ratio            5.91    4.23    5.19    5.78    6.34    6.44    1.33    0.97    0.83    0.94    1.18    0.80    0.69    1.34    1.82    2.77
Debt/equity ratio                -     08/92   19/81   44/56   69/31   76/24   81/19   82/18   82/18   81/19   79/21   76/24   70/30   63/37   55/45   45/55
July 8, 1971



PANkMA
Appraisal of Ton-sen  tstereatianst Airport Prelent
9AC - PROFORHA BALANCE SHEETS AS AT YEAR END DECEMBER 31
(Espressod in thousands of Ba1boas.   Batboa 1.00 -  US $1.00)
1969          1970          1971           1972          1973          1974           1975           1976          1977          1978           1979           1980          1981           1982          1983           1984
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                      620           759          1646           1958          2300          2470           2051          1455           1104          1394           2044           1098           805           2645          4170           7408
A.uounts rensivable                       361           290           317            364           418           488            628            728           788           848            913            985          1091           1222          1355           1498
Invent-ry -tnr-s                           31            33            40             45            50             50            75           100            100            100           1o0            100           110            120           120            120
Sub-Total                           1012          1082           2003          2367           2768          3008          2754           2283          1992           2342          3057           2183           2006          3987           5645          9026
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                     6733          3378          4128           4128          4128          4128           2844          2844           2844          2844           2844           2844          2844           2844          2844           2844
Runways                                  1335          1987          2256           2446          2496         12146          11821          11921         12521         12621          12721          12821         12921          13021         14121          14221
Buildings                                2042           740           794            844           894           944          20604         20704          20804         20904          21004          21004         25204          23304         23404          25504
Equirp st                                 616           709          1677           1692          1707          3122           6637           6667          6697           6727          6757           6787          6817           5717          6267           6817
Construction IC pr05r0.. .                              951          1700           6975         21750         20240             -             250            -              -             -            2000            -                           -               -
Sub-Total                          10726          7765          10555         16085         30975          40580         41906          42386         42866          43096         43326          45556          47786         46886          48636         49386
Lnss.    A-uIulated Depre-iotion
RUnWaYS                                    -             95           207            329           453           820           1316          1911           2536          3166           3-111          4441          5086           5736          6416           7126
Buildings                                  -             34             74           117           162            210           697           1733          2773          3818           4868           5923          7083           8348          9618          10893
Equip.ent                                  -             85            243           412           582           824           1312          1978           2647          3319           3994           4672          5353           4274          4900           558'1
S.b-Tutal                              -            214           524           858           1197          1854          3325           5622          7956          10303         12663          15036          17522         183518         20934         23600
Net fined  -SSOts                       10726          7551         10031         15227          29778         38726          38581         36764          34910         32793          30663          30520         30264          28528         27702          25786
DEFERRED CHARGES
COnsultanny Srvicen                      152           212             50           275           50            500           450            400           350            300           250            200            i3O           100             50
TOTAL ASSETS                       11890           8845         12084         17869          33046         42234         41785          39447         37252          39435          33970         32903          32470         32613          33397         34812
LIABILITIS  S. GOVT'S EQUITf
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Currant portion - long-term debt           -              -            106           106            106           106          1601          1815          105            1860          1925           1990          2065           2140          2225           2320
ACCOUts paynbin  nod urerns               163           225            247           271            290           320           360            396           435            478            525           578            635           698            768           845
Guarantee d.pusits                          3             23            25            25             25            25             50            50            50             50             50            50             50            50             55             30
Sub Total                             166           248           378            402           429           459           2011          2261           2290          2388           2500           2618          2750          2888           3003           3215
LONG-GTERM DEBT
lBOD loan                                  -             -            1000          4150          12750         18250          19305         180560         17755         1685           15970         14980          13915         12775          11550          10230
Go-t. loan.                                               -            750          3100           9500         15490          13000         12000          11000         10000           0000          9000           7000          6000           5000           46000
Other                                      -             706           494           388            282           116             70            -              -
Sub-T.tal                              -            706           2244          7638         22532          31916         32375          30560         28755          36895         2497C          22980          20915        18775           16550         14230
GOVERNHENT' S EUITfY
Capitol                                 10737          6186           7376          7376           7376          7376           5683          5683           5683          5683           5683          5683           5683           5683          5683           5683
funned su-pl-n  (defi-t)                  987           1705          2086           2453          2709           2483          1716            943           524            469           817           1622          3072           5K9           8171          11684
Sub-Total                           11724          7891           9462          9829          10085          9859           7399          6426           6207          6152          6500           7305           8755         10952          13804          17367
TOTAL LIABILITIES ANS  EUITY       11890          8045          12084         17869          33046         42234         61785          39447          37252         35435         33970          32903          32420         32615          33397          34812
July 8, 1971



PANAMA
Appraisal of Tocumen International Airport Project
DAC - Organization Chart September 1970
|GOVERNING BOARD
ADVISORY BOARD                             |DIRECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE(3 _
LEGAL ADVISER
ADMINISTRATIVE                      AIR TRANSPORT                                                                                                          AIR TRANSIT
SUB DIREDIREC 1                       DIRECTOR  1                        SUB DIRECTOR(1                                        1                         SUB DIRECTOR 1)
I OFFIGE(3) I                     rFFICE(h)                             I OFFICh1                               | E(3)                                  1OFFICE(1)
ACCOUNTING                       CERTIFICATION I                         NEGOTIATING                                                                 _
AND LICENSING                               TRAFFIC                                    NINCONTROL TOWERS
RIGHTS (1)6                                                                  SEE AIRPORTS
IPERSONNEL___                                                                                                  ________
(4ERSONNE)L L           | OPERATIONS                        NTRAF'IC RIGHTS                      _    IENGINEERING                       RADIO & NAV. AIDS
SFUITY(3)                          INVIGILENCE (6)                            1         (9)                           SEE AIRPORTS
PUBLIC !__________                                                                                                                             _________
PUBLIC'NS   I2) |---      | MAINTENANCE                         STATISTICS AND                          AIRPORT MAINT,                          COMMUNICATIONS
SECURITY (1)                    FISCAL INVIGILENCE   -SEE AIRPORTS                                                    SEE AI
(7)                              OFFICE(1
PURCHASING
AND STORES (3) -                    FIRE BRIGADE
TOCUMEN AND
PAITILLA AIRPORTS
lE ACHIVES_                             (29)                                  Each Sub Director above is responsible for the functions in his field of activity.
-(3)I
AIRPORTS
-SEh AIRPORTS                                           TOCOIEN                PAITILLA  |              AVID                 BOCAS                  CHANGUINOLA   |         SANTIAGO
AP1aN(52)              ADMIN.(2)              ADNIN.(13)             ADMIN.(3)              ADNIN.(1)               COMMUNICA-
ACCOUNT.(6)            MAINTo(6)               MAINT.(9)             MAINT.(2)              NAIET.(1)               TIONS(l)
MAINT.(82)             CONTROL                 CONTROL               CCMMUNICA-             COPMUNICA-
CONT.TWR.(12)          TOWER(8)                TOWER(8)   l          TIONS '2)              TIONS (2)
RAD.&NAV.AIDS(7)
Bracketed figures show headcount.                       COMi4UN'S(13)
STORES (4)
DAC Headquarters                77                                                                                                                                               x
Tocumen Airport          176
Fire Brigade Allocation  23   199
Other Airports            58
Fire Brigade Allocation   6    6j
for Paitilla
TOTAL         340



PANAEA
Appraisal of Tocuses Internatio-l Airport ?rpje-t
AC - PRIJECTZED ORGANIZATIOO CHART - 1975
loverciog 
Boed
|i -------------------------   Director General
Offios
rLegaL Advisor
Offio     0
Administration                     Aooooatisg & Firaoseos                       Air Oroority                  d ir Troeseport                  |Airports                             |Air Transit
tireotor (1)                        o toio    1                                 Dtreotor -1-                   -                                 |c   1             Direotor 1[   - o(1)
Offise                                   Offioc (1)                          ffie   5;office3                                                   fic    s-
{od oto                            FinanFoi=al                                 Certifi-otion                  Economic                                                                C        Towers
A    (ocntiog                              & Lioensing iitudiee                                               I     Z                              c       T
ii  2    1
eirbal|.                             Cos      t                                Operations   INegotiatinS iiR sidrij|                                                                 Radio & Nar. Aids
_Servioss &                        I Aoooeeein34(1) 1                           Ssoority (3) I               lTraffic Rights  |                - .. 22 (9                              ' s  Airports
Costroets ()                                                                                                  & Bilatecels (1)
Persosnel                ~~~Audit &                                   MalSeuintv (3nos               Traffic Bigots                 ._.Firpot. Mint.T|                       Csounoseatiens
- 0sesOuit 3ls   sce6LOec Other..&i  orAL)| s    irot
_|Public                                                                        Fire Brigade |O tatistios and                        i
Relations                                                                      Oc_ See Other                  Fiscal Invigilenoe
(2)   Ii .A orts                                                                                                      (10)
Porchosing
&  tores (4)
Tocren Airport                                                         Other                       ,   Bsoh direotor
Airports Adim.                                                                             Dire-tsr      1                                                   Ai                                chews is re-
lee Other Air-orto                                                                    Adeinitratton                                                              ti Pitilia (oct01 olosed)   poesible for
Aooounting & Audit (13)                                      Daid                                       the fnctions
Meintenenoc  (143)                                           Boos                                       in his field
,tores (9)                                                   Changuinola                                of estiwihy in
! Fire Brigade (35)                                             Puerto Arsuelies                          other airports.
Santiago
Ieria  Transit Punoteone                                     La Pair
Control Tooe- (1)                                            Administration (27)
R       R avai  (1)                                          hlteni noe  (50)
Cd gomprniostions (17                                        Control Tower
Bracketed figures shoe ho.daG  set                                                                                                                       Radio and Navaide    43
DAC heodquarter.        122                                                               Tocumen Airport direotor is                                    Communi-ations
Toeo-us                340                                                               responsible for tilc  -pr-tion                                 Fir Brigade (18)1)
Gth-e airpoeto         138                                                                of the airprt, c-cept aerial
Total        hC                                                                 transit fonctious.  Oil-er
dir-oioro  el1 lk, dAeon stnGd-
one in their ficido.
Juoe 7, 1971



PANAMA: APPRAISAL OF TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
80 TOTAL PROCESS TIME OF ARRIVING PASSENGERS AT OLD AND NEW TERMINALS
.-------- FIELD SURVEY DATA
SIMULATION DATA
60
ZU   |            l              |OLD TERMINAL
z
ui~
LU
40
a-
20
0- 
0             20            40             60            80            100          G
NUMBER OF PASSENGERS                                x
IBRD-5576



.Ca   r  i  b  b  e  a  n                                 S  e  a
fI;CHAA/GU11NLA 
i                     KjOCAS DEL rORO                                                                  cot
~BdToro
~~~~~ \ ( \ . 15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ltAND ii
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rto                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA PAL   A am
t   Santioao                t                   G~~~~~~~~~~~ u /f    o f    p1 a n  at m ct(EL tA                                                ,
-S-            - E            %                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        ~     ~~~CHMREttn\    
. '5 ~~~~~~~~~~~Chit                                                                                                                                  e\<
5  t   UN1T3 STAThS                                                                                                       ____'_______PANAM A
9 Gu/tof   .**,. >   < '° -   aJ  a                                        \           LOCATION OF AIRPORTS                                             
\ g;) CUli < t <7 M \ D " International airports                                                                                                                A JAQUt
9<< >J JAMAICto 1> r gV (xs J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Domnestic oirports                                                                         axque _
UAs Cribtn Arican Hhwoy Ct   A
SAIG                                                                                                                       -  LInternatonal boundaries
0;10 20304t0  06070S0
Pacific Ocean         7                ;    P    a    C C         i i       C            0    C    e    C    n                       KILOAlfThRS
ANUARY 1971'                                                                                               7 0 'g I Sr  7  7 R3
JANUARY 1971                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD-3246



PANAMAA
TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
EXISTING FACILITIES              NEW  FACILITIES                                                                                                   FAITESLY U
1. Existing terminal             9. Passenger terminal         19. Glide slope tranmte
2. Rescue and fire station       10. Crash-rescue station      20. I.LS. Locolizer
3. Velodrome                    11. Parking                    21. Runway lightingsyem-..                                                            ''/1 2>
4. Hangar                        12. Control tower                                                                             '       2\        <
5. Panamanian Air Force          13. Sewage plant                                                                                                                                           --
6. Property line                14. Future cargo building                                                                                                                                                                   N
7. Runway                       15. Disersion ditch
8. Approach lighting system     16. Runway
igt Editora continental          17. Taxiwoy
lR. Approach lighting with sequenced                                                                                  J
flashers
0    200   400   600   800   1000
Meter
JUNE 1971                                                                                                                                                                                 lORD 3497~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD39



