Report No. 2538
FILE COPY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA - TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
June 11, 1979
Operations Evaluation Department






- i -            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA - TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE                                                              ii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET                           iii
HIGHLIGHTS                                                           iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.  Background                                                    1
II.  The Project                                                   2
III.  Main Points of Interest                                       7
IV.  Conclusions                                                  11
Annexes
I.  The Overall Concept of the New Tocumen Airport               13
II. Direccion de Aeronautica Civil - Anticipated
Return on Net Operating Assets (1979-1985)                 15
ATTACHMENT: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.  Introduction                                                 16
II.  Project Preparation and Appraisal                            16
III.  Project Implementation and Cost                              18
IV.  Traffic and Operating Performance                            23
V.  Financial Performance of the Borrower                        23
VI.  Institutional Performance and Development                    27
VII.  Economic Reevaluation                                        29
VIII.  Bank Performance                                             32
IX.  Conclusions                                                  33
Tables
1.  Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Cost               35
2.  Schedule of Disbursements as of 31 December 1977             36
3.  Actual and Appraisal Airport Traffic Projections             37
4. Actual and Projected Income Statements of DAC,
1971-1977 (Figures in Balboas '000)                       38
5. Actual and Projected Balance Sheets of the Airport
Authority, 1971-1977 (Figures in Balboas '000)             39
6.  Actual and Appraisal Expectation of Project Financing        40
7.  Summary Status of Principal Covenants                        41
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA - TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
Preface
This report presents a performance audit of the Panama - Tocumen
International Airport Project for which Loan 783-PAN in the amount of
US$20 million was closed fully disbursed in July 1977. It consists of
a memorandum prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a
Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Bank's Latin America and
Caribbean Regional Office.
An OED mission visited Panama in January 1979 to review the re-
sults of the project and carry out discussions with the Government, espe-
cially the Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC). The assistance provided
to the mission by the Government is gratefully acknowledged.
The memorandum is based on the attached PCR, discussions with
Government officials and Bank staff, review of project files and the min-
utes of the Board of Executive Directors' meeting which considered the
project. The draft audit was sent to the Government for comments in the
normal course; however, no comments were received.
On the basis described above, the audit accepts the principal
conclusions of the PCR. However, it expands on the reasons for the cost
overrun and delays in project execution, the need for improved management
of DAC, the experience in project supervision by the Bank and on the PCR's
re-estimated economic rate of return.






- iWi -
PROJECT PERFORM}ANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
PANAMA - TQCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original               Actual or
Item                                     Plan              Current Estimate
Total Project Coat (US$ Million)                     34.8                    77.0
Overrun (X)                                          -                      121
Loan Amount (US$ Million)                              -                     20.0
Disbursed   )                                        -                     17.34
Cancelled   )-                                                             0
Repaid        as of 1/31/79                          -                      2.67
Outstanding )                                        -                     20.38B
Date Physical Componenta Completed                   6/75                     6/78
Proportion Completed by Above Date (Z)                36/2                   100
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                         -                      78
Economic Rate of Return (X)                         18-20                   13-14
Financial Performance                                  -                     good
Institutional Performance                              _           less than satisfactory
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
FY72     FY73     Fy74      FY75     FY76     FY77     FY78
(i)   Estimated           2.5      8.4      15.8     20.0     20.0     20.0     20.0
(ii)  Actual              1.1      1.1       3.6      7.2     13.9     18.8     20.0
% of (ii) to Ci)         44.0      13.1     22.8     36.0     69.5     94.0    100.0
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                  Actual or
Item                                   Plan                 Current Estimate
First Mention in Files                            -                       02/24/69
Government's Application                          -                       05/28/69
Negotiations                                      -                       06/  /71
Board Approval                                    -                       07/27/71
Loan Agreement                                    -                       08/02/71
Effectiveness                                  11/01/71                   01/18/72
Closing Date                                   10/31/75                   03/31/78
Borrower                                             Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (OAC)
Executing Agency                                     Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                              Calendar Year
Follow-on Project Name                               None Scheduled
MISSION DATA
Month/       No. of        No. of                       Date of
Item              Year         Days         Persons       Man-days       Report
Identifica-ion         3/70           3             1             3          03/12/70
Preparation            6/70           2             3             6          07/08/70
Preappraisal           8/70           4             1             4          08/10/70
Appraisal              9/70          24             4            96           07/13/71
Supervision I          9/71           3             1             3          09/14/71
Supervision II         1/72           3             2             6          01/28/72
Supervision III        4/72           2             1             2          04/17/72
Supervision IV         6/72           8             1             8          06/16/72
Supervision V         10/72           5             2            10          10/04/72
Supervision VI        11/72           4             1             4          11/17/72
Supervision VII        1/73           5             1             5          02/16/73
Supervision VIII       4/73           3             1             3          05/09/73
Supervision IX         7/73           5             2            10          08/06/73
Supervision X         11/73           4             1             4          12/18/73
Supervision XI         1/74           5             1             5          01/24/74
Supervision XII        5/74           5             1             5          06/28/74
Supervision XIII       5/75           5             1             5          07/07/75
Supervision XIV        1/76           5             3            15          02/11/76
Supervision XV         9/76           2             1             2          09/22/76
Supervision XVI        1/77           3             3             9          02/09/77
Supervision XVII      11/77           2             2             6           12/07/77
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                               Balboa (B)
Appraisal Year Average (1970                                  Exchange Rate:  US01 28 1
Intervening Years Average                                                     USl ==B 1
Completion Year Average (1978)                                                US$l - B 1
/1 Includes US$3.04 million for exchange adjustment.
TJ Actual accomplishment estimated based on loan disbursement.






- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA - TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
Highlights
The Panama Tocumen International Airport Project helped
finance the construction of an air terminal building and a runway
to accommodate the increasing volumes of jet aircraft operation
(especially the wide-body jets) at the nation's main civil airport.
The basic objective of the. project was to assure continued development of
Panama's national economy which is particularly sensitive to tourist
flows and variations in air traffic volumes. The project also included
consultants' services to the Government's civil aviation agency for
management, accounting, data services, and planning.
The project was implemented with a three-year delay and 120%
cost increase. The delay and cost increase were due to many changes in
project design which were introduced after the loan was made (para. 16).
These changes, in retrospect, represented considerable improvement on the
original project design (para. 28). The re-estimated economic rate of
return is in the range of 13%-14%, which is satisfactory although lower
than the appraisal estimate of 18%-20%. Cost increase and some shortfall
in traffic development over the appraisal projection explain the current
lower estimate (para. 23). The airport is expected to make financial
profits beginning in 1980 and, by 1985, the return on net assets is
projected at 9.6% (para. 24).
The following points may be of particular interest:
- the planned closure of the downtown airfield at
Paitilla, and moving its general aviation opera-
tion to Tocumen, may require reconsideration
(para. 15);
- poor timing and excessively sophisticated approach
contributed to lack of success in the management
consultants' work (para. 19);
- training needs for management improvement
(paras 36-37);
- need for a covenant limiting non-project invest-
ments (para. 21) and for better designed financial
covenants (para. 24 and PCR, para. 5.14);
- lack of coordinated action on charges in different
airports and the resulting cross-subsidization
(para. 25);
- inadequate project supervision (paras 31-34);
- complementary measures and investments neces-
sary to realize the full benefits of the invest-
ment in the airport (paras 40-44).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
PANAMA - TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
I. Background
1.        In the mid-1960s, it had become clear that the principal air-
port for Panama, located at Tocumen about 25 km outside the capital city,
was inadequate for the growing needs for international air traffic of
the country. The site, acquired by the Government in 1946, was in a
good location for civil air operations, but the terminal facilities had
become outmoded and cramped, having been extended in stages since the
original terminal building was erected in 1953. The runways and taxiways
were also becoming in serious need of repair following patching and ex-
tension over 20 years.
2.        In a period of increasing volumes of jet aircraft operation
(especially the wide-body jets), with mounting congestion in the terminal
building and with an economy sensitive to the variations of international
traffic volumes, of which over 70%1/ arrived by air, the Government thought
it necessary to undertake an extensive development of the airport. Thus,
the US firm of Parsons, Inc. was retained as consultants in the late 1960s
to carry out feasibility studies, including assessment of the available
options.
3.        At this time, a reorganization of the civil aviation responsi-
bilities within the Government took place, and an autonomous body - the
Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC) - was created in January 1969.
4.        A Master Plan for the airport prepared by the consultants was
submitted in December 1969 to this body and, following discussions with
the Bank which had been requested by DAC to consider financing the proj-
ect, further studies were undertaken by the consultants to explore more
fully certain technical features and the economic justification for the
project. These studies, which included investigations of time saving,
the value of time and cost-benefit analysis, were completed by the con-
sultants in October 1970.
5.        The consultants' recommendations, as put forward in the Master
Plan, and supported by the extended studies, were generally accepted
by the Bank's appraisal mission which visited Panama in September/October
1970. However, some changes in specifications were made during appraisal
and the project cost was increased by 27% over the consultants' original
estimate, to US$34.8 million, including a contingency allowance of US$7
million.
6.        The immediate objective of the project was to improve and ex-
pand the country's main international transport hub to cope with the
growing traffic volume. The growth of air passenger movements, which
1/ 73% in 1978.



- 2 -
had in recent years reached an annual rate of 10%, would, in the absence
of the project, further aggravate the then unsatisfactory conditions of the
airport operations.   To the airlines, the facilities at Tocumen were in
urgent need of improvement.   A longer runway and approach aids including
Instrumental Landing System (ILS) and lighting, no less than the passenger
and baggage handling facilities, were required if business was not to be
lost to Bogota, Caracas, Guatemala, and/or Mexico City where air traffic
had been growing far more rapidly at that time.
7.        The more basic objective of the project was to assure continued
development of the national economy. Thus, the project was considered as
an investment providing local employment on an increasing scale over a
wide spectrum as air traffic developed, also offering industry improved
air freight facilities and, perhaps most important of all, through
business and tourist developments spreading social and economic benefits
throughout Panama.
8.        The project was presented to the Board in July 1971 with a re-
commendation for a 20-year loan of US$20 million (57% of the estimated
total project cost), with a grace period of 4 years, to DAC with the gua-
rantee of the Government of Panama.
II. The Project
Description - the Plan and the Actual
9.        The project included construction of a new terminal building
and a new parallel runway on land adjacent to the existing facility so
as to provide a combined twin parallel but staggered runway and taxiway
system, with a centralized passenger terminal designed to handle the
levels of international and domestic air traffic forecast for 1980. As
appraised by the Bank, the project consisted of (see PCR, Table 1 for
cost estimates):
(a) a new international passenger terminal with
control tower: 22,000 sq meter overall floor
area;
(b) a new parallel (3,350 meter) runway (03R-21L);
(c) a parallel taxiway for the new runway;
(d) approach aids including ILS with localizer and
glide slope transmitter;
(e) high intensity approach and runway/taxiway lighting;
(f) ancillary buildings (fire and rescue, meteorology)
and equipment; and
(g) provision of consultants' services to DAC for
management, accounting, data services, and
planning.



- 3 -
10.       A striking feature of the design of the new terminal building was
the passenger-aircraft interface at satellite terminals, two being ini-
tially required, allowing passenger access by air bridge to five aircraft
of Boeing 727/707 capacity (or a mix including the largest wide-body jets)
from each satellite. Two more satellites can be added as required by
future growth of air traffic. With modifications during execution,
the project furnished a 3-floor terminal with over 38,000 sq meters,
which has considerably improved the layout, and extended the space
available. At a later stage of the design work, the control tower,
which had been conceived by the consultants, in line with the current
practice, as a separate structure, was incorporated, following instruc-
tions from the DAC, into the body of the terminal building.
11.       A major decision in project design was the construction of
a new runway, rather than improvement of the existing one, which re-
sulted in the efficient handling of aircraft traffic, at present using
both runways, landing towards the terminal and taking off away from the
terminal to save taxi time and cost, this being possible in all wind
conditions because of the central terminal location. A high intensity
(HI) lighting system for approach and landing in the ILS(03) direction
on the new runway, with runway and taxiway lights, was installed.
12.       The building of bridges and a channel to divert the Tocumen
River was constructed as part of the Master Plan.    A new fuel farm was
also established with underground pipe delivery to apron hydrants.     This
was financed and is now owned by the airlines, but will revert to DAC in
20 years time. Separate buildings were provided for fire and rescue ve-
hicles, equipment and men.
13.       At present, the old terminal area is in use as a cargo and main-
tenance base. As was foreseen by. the consultants, this area is the most
suitable for air cargo. Investment was, however, excluded from the proj-
ect until a later stage. While DAC had hoped that the airlines would
provide the finance necessary for new cargo terminal investment, this is
not yet forthcoming. Thus, an uncertain situation exists at present, and
DAC seeks funds for a cargo scheme which is compatible with their new pas-
senger facility.
14.       The new airport was to be linked to an improved highway to
Panama City, as part of the Pan-American Highway. This was to be done
outside the project and was, in the event, completed before the airport
itself. Access was to have been achieved also from the opposite side of
the airfield by improvement to an existing road. This was to be an
integral part of the project and would have tunnelled under the main
taxiway between the new and the existing air terminals.    This latter
scheme was frustrated by the water level (water table) which raised
problems of engineering and cost in tunnel drainage. Thus, an existing
peripheral road was improved in lieu of a tunnel.
15.       It was projected by the Bank's appraisal mission that the opera-
tion of light transport and general aviation traffic would be moved from
the downtown airfield at Paitilla to the vacated old terminal and runway
at Tocumen. Indeed, the Loan Agreement (Section 4.04) required the



- 4 -
Borrower to close the Paitilla field one year after the completion of
the project. Revenue from land sales on this airfield was one factor in
the economic justification for the Tocumen project. Even though Paitilla
does not meet an adequate level of operating safety in all flying condi-
tions because of adjacent high-rise buildings, the Government now is
reluctant to move general aviation away from this airfield.     The question
whether or not the original agreement that the Paitilla field would be
closed was a correct course of action could not be adequately investi-
gated by the resources available to this audit, nor is it considered to
form part of the primary functions of this audit. It seems, however,
that the various aspects of the problems arising from this decision may
not have been fully considered at the time of appraisal. Therefore,
it seems desirable that the Regional Projects review this question afresh
with the Borrower.
Implementation
16.       Considerable delays occurred in the implementation of this
project which was completed in October 1978, as compared to the original
target of July 1975. The cost of the project increased by more than 120%
from the appraisal estimate of US$34.8 million to US$77 million. A large
part of the cost increase was met by a US$25 million loan from the
Venezuelan Government, making it the largest outside source of financing
of the project. However, the Venezuelan Government did not participate
in project supervision. In part, both the delays and cost increases were
due to the changes in the project design which have been noted above,
but the other factors, which became significant during project execution,
affected the time scale no less than the cost. There have been three
successive Directors General of Civil Aviation since 1969. The second
appointee (in office between 1972-78), who had an extensive experience in
major building projects, contributed to considerable improvement in the
project but this necessitated the increasing costs and delays. He took
exception to a number of major features in the plans, and conflicts arose
with the engineering consultants who had by then reached an advanced
stage of detailed design. The DAC required changes in the location of the
control tower, which involved considerable redesign of the terminal, and
expressed concern at the results of soil tests done by US and Panamanian
specialist consultants. This led to a change in engineering consultants,
in spite of efforts by Bank staff to avert this, and a consortium of a
Panamanian firm (Planos y Supervisiones Tecnicas (PISTSA)) and a major US
consulting firm (Greiner Engineering Services, Inc.) took over the
project, finalized design and supervised construction. Weather condi-
tions, inadequate equipment, poor labor planning, and local labor pro-
blems augmented these difficulties.    The additional soil testing required
by DAC turned out to be very beneficial as without this, there would have
been a serious structural problem to the terminal building.
17.       Not only were the delays and the introduction of a new consult-
ing team a source of cost increase in themselves, but further work was
called for such as soil tests, roads, runway grooving and terminal modi-
fications, and power supply; this inevitably increased costs. Moreover,



- 5 -
items not included in the original estimates of project costs had to
be provided for, some of which might reasonably have been foreseen (see
more details in para. 29).    Such were ground support equipment, and
furnishings. Finally, inflation created a serious impact upon the level
of costs, with the price increase in Panama between 1971 and 1978 having
been 74%.
18.       When inspected by the audit mission in January 1979, the
completed project is, with some exceptions, operating reasonably effec-
tively. Despite the delays and cost increases, the outcome is gen-
erally a successful project, approved of in most respects by airlines
and by the public (see the discussion on the overall concept of the
project in Annex I). A remarkably high standard of finish is noted in
the buildings and installed equipment both in the public and business
areas. As yet outstanding are the Instrument Landing System (ILS),
already installed but not accepted by the US Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration (FAA) which is the approval authority, and the cargo area, which
urgently awaits capital investment (para. 13).
19.       While implementation of the physical project has been achieved
to a high specification, and some items were provided perhaps to a
standard above what is required,l/ other aspects of the project have not
been completed satisfactorily. The management consultant, who reported
early during the project, prepared manuals which appear to have been too
elaborate and sophisticated for DAC's immediate needs. Because of delay
in the project, the work was undertaken too soon to be useful to the
airport management and it was provided in a form which was unsuitable for
the small number of trained staff who were available at the time. To
help remedy this, a new management advisor is to be retained on a 2-year
assignment beginning in March 1979.
Covenants
20.       No major problems arose over the loan covenants but there were
delays in fulfilling some of these obligations. The minimum cash genera-
tion requirement, the minimum rate of return on project completion, and
the overall debt limitation were not in the event applicable in a given
year because of the delay in the project. The dating would have been
better related to the actual completion time rather than the estimated
completion year (c.f., PCR, para. 5.11).
21.       The provision of a National Aviation Plan for Panama has also
not yet been completed as required by the covenants. However, this has
been in preparation for some months with the help of an ICAO specialist
and is expected to be completed by July 1979. Pending preparation of this
plan, no limitation was placed upon other investments by DAC (PCR, para.
5.10); because of the absence of such a covenant, it was not possible to
closely monitor DAC's other investments, such as the extension and improve-
ment of the Paitilla field, which another loan covenant (Section 4.04)
specified to be closed (c.f., para. 15).
1/ Such as the electronic and electrical systems which DAC does not
have personnel to maintain, and the furnishings on the terminal.
n- 1u#-F- *.nQ nnt financed bv the loan.



-6-
Disbursements
22.        The Key Data Sheet includes information on the disbursements
achieved in each year from 1971 to 1977. It will be noted that owing
to delay in the construction, only about 35% of this loan had been dis-
bursed by the original closing date and full disbursement was delayed
by two years.
Economic Return
23.        At appraisal, the project was estimated to yield an economic
rate of return of 18%-20%. Some shortfall on the appraisal traffic
estimates occurred; the 1978 volume of passenger traffic, for example, is
86% of that forecast at appraisal. The lower traffic volume, together
with the increased cost, reduced the re-estimated economic rate of return
to 13%-14%. Some qualification to this re-estimate is made under Main
Points of Interest (paras 39-44).
Financial Conditions of DAC
24.        Loan covenants include the undertaking by the Borrower that
it will take all necessary measures to achieve a financial rate of
return for DAC of at least 1.5% in 1976, increasing to 6.5% by 1980. The
year 1976 was taken, at appraisal, as the first year of operation of the
new airport. As mentioned above, this covenant was superseded by events.
Based on information provided by DAC, the audit estimates that the
positive return will first be reached in 1981, the third full year of
operation of the project airport, and it will increase to 6.6% in 1985
(see Annex II). However, the Tocumen Airport itself (viz., excluding
other airfields under DAC) will start to make profits in 1980 and by 1985
the return on net assets would be 9.6%. It would have been desirable
that, in addition to the financial covenants for DAC as a whole, separate
covenants for the Tocumen Airport only have been agreed so that the
project's financial results are not needlessly encumbered by the deficits
produced by DAC's other operations (c.f., PCR, para. 5.14).
25.        The financial projection in the Appraisal Report was based
on the assumption that the various airport charges, including the passen-
ger exit tax, aircraft landing, and leasing charges, would be increased
by reasonable steps so as to raise the net revenues as required without
restraining demand. This action has already been taken. However,
charges at other airports under DAC have not been increased with the
result that they are presently producing larger financial deficits, and
the Tocumen Airport, in effect, will cross-subsidize these other air-
fields in Panama from 1980 on.
26.        The airlines accepted increases in landing and other charges,
which in some cases were steep, because of the marked improvement in the
facilities. Some criticism of the lack of option to the airlines to use
all the services provided is heard, however. A US$8 passenger exit tax
is now in force and this is expected to rise to US$10 in 1980. These



-7 -
taxes are high but not exceptional.    The same is true for ground rents
for concessions which reach US$500 per sq meter per annum for the duty
free shops; the fact that there is a waiting list of potential leasees
appears to be an indication that the expected commercial profits justify
the levels of rents. A schedule of increments has been planned for other
airport services at Tocumen.
III. Main Points of Interest
Cost Increases and Delay in Completion
27.       The audit is in broad agreement with the PCR as to the causes
of delay and of the allocation of the increases in cost which arose. The
effect of inflation has been fairly assessed in the PCR (para. 3.20), and
it is clear that about US$9.5 million is the cost of the residual work
and equipment at inflated prices, which should have been identified in
the Master Planning or appraisal stage (para. 17).
28.       It appears that the appraisal considerably underestimated the
cost, especially for the terminal and may have failed to take fully into
account some of the potential problems of execution, such as the power
and water supplies, and communication facilities which were assumed to
be provided by others, but in the end DAC had to provide them by itself.
29.       Much of the cost increases therefore is something that could
have been either anticipated or measures taken to minimize them during
the project appraisal and execution. They could be grouped into three
categories:
1. Omissions in the Master Plan or appraisal stage.
Examples are: fencing and passenger handling equip-
ment omitted by the consultants.
2. Unforeseen work found to be mandatory as the proj-
ect proceeded. Examples are: power supplies, land
surveys, and additional road work not initially
foreseen to be required on the scale found necessary.
3. Underestimation in the planning stage. The founda-
tion and erection of the terminal and, to some ex-
tent, runway/taxiway as well as furnishings and equip-
ment of the terminal were seriously underestimated.
30.       Execution delays arose from the causes which have also been
well spelt out in the PCR. Such were changes in leadership in DAC,
uneven performance of consultancy services by the original design team,
and conflicts in the views taken of significant features in the basic
design and of the engineering works between DAC and the original consul-
tants, leading to the decision to change consultants (para. 16). It is
clear that other factors, including the labor problems and shortage of
the equipment of earth moving contractors, and misjudgment of supplies
provision to avoid seasonal bad weather, aggravated the problems.



-8-
Project Supervision
31.       The supervision of this project was put under considerable
strain because of the numerous problems described above and because
of the lack of experience on the part of the newly established DAC,
especially with a project of this magnitude. The problem was com-
pounded by the Borrower's lack of confidence in his consultants; ra-
ther than working with his consultant to solve terminal design problems,
he frequently turned to the Bank for advice.
32.       The Bank's supervision efforts to expedite the design revision
(paras 16 and 17) did not appear to have been fully effective.     The re-
vision began in the second half of 1972 but was not completed much be-
fore the end of 1975.   During this three-year period, eight supervision
visits took place but they were all brief visits - 3 to 5 days - during
which it would have been difficult to deal with the details of the en-
gineering problems as well as other usual supervision tasks.
33.       There are several other unsatisfactory features of supervision
missions. All these visits during the three-year period were one-man
missions, with one exception in which a Young Professional joined.
Four different individuals carried out these eight missions, although
five have been done by one individual. This staff member, who was the
project engineer but belonged to the Bank's Central Projects Staff and
not the Regional Projects, could not carry out field supervision between
July 1973 and May 1974 during which period two supervision missions were
carried out by two different non-aviation engineers. Most of the super-
vision missions were carried out during trips which included visits to
one or more other projects in Panama or other Latin American countries,
some of them within a week's time. Between October 1972 and January
1976, no financial analyst joined supervision missions, while financial
review and the check on the progress of the accounting consultants' work
should have been an important part of supervision. There was only one
supervision mission in which an aviation economist participated, while
the preparation of a National Aviation Plan, which is a loan condition,
should have been closely supervised.
34.       The impression that one gains from the above is that much of
the supervision efforts represented reactions to "crises" in the field,
although it is to be recognized that these missions tried to make DAC
do proper programming and planning of project workflow. A number of
visits made by DAC staff to Washington was also generally for resolving
urgent engineering problems, rather than consultation on overall project
implementation. The fact that little or no supervision inputs were made
by financial analysts or economists appears to suggest that these fairly
frequent supervision missions did not adequately cover the entire range
of problems which arose during the execution of the project. Indeed,
many of the non-engineering aspects, e.g., financial conditions of DAC or
preparation of the National Aviation Plan, of the discussions in super-
vision reports were generally less informative than they should have been.



- 9 -
Some opportunities for the Bank to learn useful lessons from its first
major airport project therefore appeared to have been lost due to the
inability to carry out well planned and more comprehensive supervision.
35.       The new Director General felt that the Bank's supervision of
the project could have been more systematic and comprehensive. At the
same time, however, gratitude was expressed by him and other DAC officers
for the assistance given by Bank staff in the various stages of supervision.
Need for Improved Management
36.       The change in the leadership of the DAC during the execution of
the project not only increased the problems in implementing the project
but also adversely affected sound and continuous institutional develop-
ment of DAC. The supervision reports during 1975-1977 pointed out
the need for management planning and efforts were made by the Regional
Projects staff to encourage the DAC to engage in the training of its
staff in management and in key engineering areas, but DAC's efforts
appear to have been made more toward solving problems arising in the
construction part of the project. DAC management now recognizes these
institutional problems, but action is yet to be taken.
37.       The problem is to establish a firm structure of experience
at several levels. Critical also is the provision of trained engineers
for plant maintenance, and especially electro-mechanical technicians in
preparation for plant operation in a large and multi-faceted project.
Again in this area, a first-class advisor is required, followed rapidly
by the establishment of a training program. One of the conditions
for achieving this is the establishment of a realistic pay scale in
the Government's civil aeronautics service, since the best men can get
work in private industry. As a partial attempt to deal with this pro-
blem, the Chief of the Plant Maintenance Engineering has been engaged, on
a temporary basis, on loan from private industry.
38.        The physical investment alone in the airport cannot be expected
to assure the benefits envisaged from it, unless airport management is
improved as planned. The recently appointed Director General is very
much aware of this problem and is convinced of the need for a competent
professional management backed up by plant operators and technicians in
DAC. This is shown by his successful negotiation with ICAO recently for
the appointment of a suitably qualified airport management advisor for
two years (para. 19). But much more than this needs to be done.
Qualifications to the Re-estimated Economic Return
39.       The re-estimated return of 13% to 14%, as shown in the PCR, was
calculated on the assumption that the flow of annual project benefits
would be realized throughout the life of the project. Also, the estima-
tion supposes, although not specifically mentioned, that other investments
necessary to accommodate international visitors to Panama, such as hotels,
would be made.



- 10 -
40.       As of now, the benefits of the project are not fully realized
because, although the facilities to handle traffic efficiently are now
in place, there has been insufficient expediting of the passenger traffic
flow within the new terminal due to the fact that no steps have been
taken to improve the immigration and customs procedures. For example,
arriving passengers are required to wait for anything up to 45 minutes at
passport control. This is an unacceptable feature of any airport in the
jet era, and especially so for an airport in which a large investment was
made for the very purpose of facilitating the traffic flow. The esti-
mates of benefits given in the PCR (para. 7.08) are not being achieved
fully during the first year of operation; in the medium term (say
1985), however, they are achievable if measures are taken to eliminate
delays at those Government check points, thereby fully realizing the
advantages of the new facilities.
41.       The real challenge to realizing a maximum benefit of the project
is the drive to maintain the projected rate of growth of the air traffic
at Tocumen over future years. This audit identified some of the key areas
which should be probed further, and where assistance would now be welcomed
by DAC and by other Government agencies so that this essential air traffic
growth both in passengers and cargo can be maintained through the 1980s.
42.       The success of the project depends upon the growth of interna-
tional traffic, and two aspects of this are most significant. Firstly,
the promotion and provision of facilities for business and recreational
activities and, secondly, investments in hotels. While the Ministry of
Planning and Political Economy, and even more so the Government's Tourist
Bureau, are well aware of those factors and two hotels are currently
being built, the present scale of activity and investments may not be
adequate to maintain the growth required.
43.        Forecasts of a 6.5% p.a. growth rate, which reflects current
trends in international (non-resident) arrivals in Panama, indicate an
expected 605,000 international visitors in 1990. This represents more
than doubling of the number which arrived in 1978, requiring a consider-
able increase in hotel capacity. Panama has the advantage of a relatively
uniform international air traffic throughout the year, the peak month of
December generating only 29% above the average month. Even so, over
5,500 additional hotel beds are estimated to be required over this time
scale, and present building plans reach no more than 12%-15% of that
figure. The increasing domestic demand within Panama is not included
in these figures. Hotel building therefore would have to be encouraged
to retain tourists for a longer visit.
44.       The maintenance of this rate of growth in international air
passenger traffic is dependent also upon other non-aviation investment
in convention centers, tourist attractions, and surface transport facil-
ities, and forward planning for these is necessary. Stepped-up tourist
promotional activities are also necessary. On a Tourist Bureau promo-
tional budget of US$912,000 in 1979, an adequate level of overseas



- 11 -
publicity for Panama may not be possible.    Inquiries indicate that
equivalent expenditures in Singapore and Hong Kong are US$7.45 million
and US$6.06 million, respectively, in the current year.
IV. Conclusions
45.       While the project experienced considerable delays and cost
increases, overall, the project has been carried out successfully.
One of the causes of the delays and cost increases was the important
modifications introduced to the terminal building design when the design
work was virtually completed and also the need to carry out more thorough
soil tests which were inadequately done preceding Bank appraisal. Many
of the modifications to the terminal design generally resulted in an
improvement of the layout. There were also certain items which were found
to be required and therefore added to the project, but had not been
identified during appraisal. The idea envisaged at appraisal that all
international traffic movement would be handled by the new runway built
under the project, reserving the old runway for general aviation, did not
turn out to be a realistic one; today, both runways are used by inter-
national traffic with the result that the aircraft movements are made
more efficient and economical. In light of this, the question of moving
general aviation to Tocumen and closing down the Paitilla airfield
appears to warrant a careful review.
46.        Some of the benefits of the project are not yet fully realized
because the Government still needs to further streamline its immigration
and customs procedure at the terminal.
47.        The Bank's supervision of the project was not adequate.
Although frequent visits were made by the Bank staff, they were generally
of too short a duration for an adequate supervision and their emphasis
was on engineering matters, with relative neglect of management, finance
and economic matters. The impression is that the supervision took the
form basically of an advisory service to the Borrower, which should have
come from his consultants in the first instance, and the main function
of supervision, i.e., the control of overall project execution, antici-
pating problems, helping to build up an institutional capability to oper-
ate the airport, etc., did not receive sufficient attention.
48.         The final product of the construction part of the project is
an airport which is approved of in most respects by airlines and by the
public. The standard of workmanship is of a high order, and the equip-
ment procured and the furnishings are of good quality. The challenge to
the DAC is to operate the facilities with high efficiency. For this, the
DAC and the Government appear to require outside assistance.
49.        The audit identified four areas where assistance is required.
These are: the development of a professional management and executive
structure, engineering training, especially for electro-mechanical
specialists, development and financing of the air cargo base, and invest-
ment in tourism facilities, particularly hotels. Such assistance is



- 12 -
essential to an efficient operation of the airport and therefore to the
maintenance of air traffic growth upon which the viability of the project
and, for that matter, the economic growth of Panama importantly depend.
50.       Some continued contact between the Borrower and the Bank's
Regional Projects staff for the next few years is desirable. This
may take the form of limited supervision of DAC operations, provided
that, in terms of priority, Bank manpower could be expended for such a
purpose. Since the completion of physical construction represents
achievement of only a part of the project objectives, the remainder being
the build-up of the institutional capability, in a case as this project
where there is no follow-up lending operation in the sector, the question
of a continued association with the Borrower until its operating capa-
bility is further improved appears to merit careful consideration.



- 13 -                    ANNEX I
Page 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
PANAMA - TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
The Overall Concept of the New Tocumen Airport
This audit has concluded that the overall development concept
for Tocumen Airport was sound. Given the need to expand and update facil-
ities to meet a growing passenger, cargo and aircraft movement, the prin-
cipal alternative option to the project as completed was the refurbishing
and extension of the old terminal building and the rebuilding and length-
ening of the existing runway. The old terminal (erected 1953) had reached
the end of its useful life after several additions had been made over 25
years. The old runway which had been cracking badly through poor drain-
age had also an adverse slope of 0.9% towards the northern hills and of-
fers take-off and landing restrictions in northerly wind conditions. These
latter disadvantages naturally still exist on this runway.
While a convincing economic case was made in 1969 by the original
consultants to build a new runway and terminal, it must be said that the
cost overrun and delay would certainly have been less if the less ambiti-
ous program of rebuilding had been chosen. The Appraisal Report detailed
(in Annex 2) the features of each option and drew the conclusion that even
with a conservative estimate of lost airport revenue, through the closing
of the original runway for lengthening and strengthening in stages, the
consultants' recommendation to build a new parallel runway and new terminal
was the correct one. It would be, however, a misconception to believe, as
did the appraisal, that air transport operations with large jet aircraft
will be confined to the new runway. Now that reconditioning of the old
runway has also been completed, the airport is operated by the airlines
using both runways, aircraft landing towards the terminal and taking off
away from the terminal to save taxi time and cost, this being possible, be-
cause of the central terminal location, in all wind conditions. Exceptions
to this will only arise when long-haul jets take off at maximum weight.
A minor conflict arises as aircraft taxi across the old roadway,
on a short length of combined taxiway and road which is therefore shared
with other airport vehicles,
There is now little doubt that the most suitable use for the old
apron is for cargo and maintenance services, replacing later the old ter-
minal which would be costly to refurbish. Plans are in preparation to im-
plement a scheme for this cargo area when finance is available,
The nature of the site and the constraints on location of the
new runway dictated that the layout of the main terminal should be of
linear type. This was certainly a correct decision, although it neces-
sitated some restriction on the number of airline "check-in" desks. (A



- 14 -                    ANNEX I
Page 2
limitation to the number of airline desks is already apparent in the inter-
national terminal, and sharing by airlines will become necessary within a
few years.) For the future, the layout of the terminal allows further
linear extension. More satellites can also be added when demand justifies
it. In brief, the design concept allows adequate flexibility.



- 15 -                    ANNEX II
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
PANAMA - TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 783-PAN)
Direccion de Aeronautica Civil
Anticipated Return on Net Operating Assets (1979-1985)
1979       1981       1983        1985
(US$ Millions)
NET OPERATING ASSETS
Tocumen Airport                   76.98      68-.77     60.36      52.21
Other Airports                     5.99       5.03       4.06       3.07
DAC Total               82.97      73.80      64.42      55.28
US$ Thousands
NET RETURN ON OPERATIONS
Tocumen Airport                   -261.1   1,778.8    3,579.5    5,030.4
Other Airports                  -1,256.7  -1,301.9   -1,267.9   -1,375.8
DAC Total            -1,517.8      476.9    2,311.6    3,654.6
PERCENT RETURN (YEAR)
Tocumen Airport                     -         2.59-      5.93       9.63
DAC Total (All Airports)            -         0.65-      3.59        6.61
1/ + 1.1% in 1980
2/    Loss in 1980
Source: Direccion de Aeronautica Civil



- 16 -                       ATTACHMENT
PANAMA
TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT (LOAN 783-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1969 and 1970, there was strong pressure on Panama to improve
its international airport facilities at Tocumen because of the economic
importance of its traditional role as a staging point between North and South
America. Thus, the leading objective of the project was to ensure that Panama
would be able to maintain this role in the face of the changes occurring in
the airline industry. The major features of the project were a new runway,
taxiway and aircraft parking system, together with a new passenger terminal
complex to provide improved service to a large and growing volume of passenger
and cargo traffic and - in particular - the new, large, wide-body jets. The
Government attached a high priority to the project as a means of maintaining
Tocumen's position as an important international airport, stimulating tourism
and economic diversification by capturing an increasing share of air passenger
and cargo traffic and meeting the requirements of Panama's developing economy.
The project was part of an airport master plan which provided for future
expansion when required.
1.02      Because of the condition and geometry of the old runway, its rehabil-
itation would have required substantial interruption to traffic and high cost.
Therefore, it was decided to build a new runway to the east of, and parallel
to, the existing runway, offset so that the south end of the existing runway
was roughly in line with the north end of the new runway. The new terminal
was to be constructed between the two runways. The existing terminal building,
the land adjacent to the existing terminal building and the land adjacent to
the existing runway were earmarked for air cargo and other operations. The
old runway was to be serviceable for light aircraft previously using Paitilla
while the new runway was to be used exclusively by large commercial transport
aircraft.
1.03      The Borrower, Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC), was a newly
established (1969) autonomous State agency with responsibility for handling
civil aviation matters in Panama. Technical and financial management were
understandably weak; therefore, a program of technical and management
assistance was included as part of the project.
1.04      Previous Bank loans to the transportation sector in Panama had
been limited to two loans totaling US$13.1 million to help finance road
construction. Not only was this the first non-highways transportation
project in Panama but also it was the first airport project undertaken
by the Bank.
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      The project was proposed by Panama at a meeting in the Bank in
February 1969, at which time a loan application and prefeasibility study
were presented. Panama was then in the process of selecting a consultant to
carry out studies, and the Bank provided suggestions with respect to the terms
of reference. Some 18 consultants responded to the Panamanian invitation,
and the Parsons Corporation of the USA was selected by Panama to carry out a
feasibility study. This study was reviewed by the Bank in February 1970.



- 17 -
2.02      The Directorate of Civil Aeronautics (DAC) was created as an auton-
omous agency in January 1969, and its Director General, Major Patricio Janson,
acted as the guiding force in the early stages of the project, although the
formal contacts with the Bank were through the Director General of the
National Planning Department.
2.03      Since this was the Bank's first airport project, there was consider-
able interest in the various issues associated with it and a need to discuss
the project in detail. As a result of suggestions from the Bank at a meeting
with DAC and the consultants in July 1970, necessary revisions were made to
the feasibility and master plan study. The appraisal mission visited Panama
in September 1970 and found that additional data were required. These addi-
tional data were not provided by Parsons until May 1971. Parsons' report
provided preliminary design calculations and was the basis for final design
and the preparation of working drawings under an engineering services contract
with DAC. This, together with some revised cost data provided at the end of
May, led to completion of the appraisal. It was appreciated that the cost data
were based on preliminary engineering only, and consideration was given to
seeking an independent cost study or waiting until final design was completed.
Since a delay of up to one year could have resulted, a decision was taken by
the Bank to proceed with the project on the basis of the available data.
2.04      This decision, in retrospect, was understandable in the light of the
available information. The studies carried out were comprehensive: a number
of alternatives were considered and, in the time available, a great deal of
ground was covered. In particular, the Bank dealt with the financial and
economic aspects carefully since the consultant was not familiar with the
scope and depth of analysis required.
2.05      It must be remembered that, in 1970 and 1971, air transport was
in a period of very rapid growth, with newer and larger jet aircraft soon to
be introduced.  There was, therefore, great pressure on Panama to improve its
airport facilities in order to retain its traditional position as a bridge
between North and South America and to profit from the opportunities provided
by the newer aircraft in terms of lower costs and increased capacity. The
timing and scope of the project were therefore appropriate for meeting Panama's
needs.
2.06      Two factors were recognized at the time of appraisal:    first, that
DAC was a new and relatively inexperienced organization and, second, that care
would have to be exercised in controlling the project. A third factor, which
could not be recognized, was that construction costs would increase very
rapidly after the 1973 oil crisis. Even though the main thrusts of the
project covenants were to promote sound management practices in DAC and to
require good project control through the retention of suitable consultants to
design and supervise the project, costs increased rapidly. The results, in a
sense, were to be expected. For a small, inexperienced group to be faced with
a project of the size and complexity of Tocumen during a time of rapidly
rising costs meant that their slender resources were overwhelmed in the early
years of project execution.



- 18 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Implementation
3.01      The implementation of this project was difficult, and a number of
factors contributed to the problem. A major point was the fact that the
design consultant proceeded with design fairly independently with the
enthusiastic support of the then Director General of DAC. The designs were
well advanced in the autumn of 1972, when a new Director General, an expe-
rienced engineer and contractor, was appointed. He and his advisers were
disturbed by some of the design features, particularly as they applied to site
conditions. The design consultants had assumed that they would supervise the
construction, but their relationship with DAC deteriorated to the point that
DAC refused to consider the firm for project supervision. As a result, there
were difficulties in coordinating the preparation and revision of the final
drawings. The new DAC staff and the newly appointed supervisory consultants,
who were unfamiliar with the design parameters, took over almost at the
tendering stage. The resolution of problems, e.g., organizing a plan of
action, checking and revising designs and generally coping with the startup
of construction, not only took time, but placed DAC in the position of having
to try to catch up with the job rather than being able to encounter problems
as they occurred and solve them before they became serious. DAC and the
consultants recovered ground, but it was a long, hard struggle. In addition,
DAC elected to carry out direct procurement of some equipment items (instead
of including these items in civil works contracts), which increased the
engineering coordination and administrative load. The net result was delay
in project execution with increased costs. The quality of the final work,
nevertheless, was very good. It is doubtful that, had DAC retained the
original consultants, the delays or costs would have been reduced materially
since the same problems plus the oil crisis inflation would have arisen.
Concerned that such a change might lead to delays, the Bank argued against
appointing new consultants until it was clear that no good working relation-
ship could be expected between DAC and the design firm. Although substantial
detailed design changes were made, the basic concept remained unchanged.
Procurement
3.02      Essentially, three types of procurement procedures were used:
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines,
international competitive bidding on a negotiated basis (shopping) and direct
negotiation with a selected supplier. International competitive bidding was
used for the three major contracts, i.e., earthmoving, runway paving and the
terminal building. Competition was intense. In the case of the terminal
building, where the costs were far higher than the original estimates, the
final contract was the result of complex negotiation with the nominal low
bidder.
3.03      Most of the electronic, electrical and mechanical equipment was
procured by DAC using competitive bidding and direct negotiation. Since
this procurement did not meet the conditions of the Bank's guidelines,



- 19 -
none of these contracts were financed from the proceeds of the loan.
The value of this equipment was about US$8.0 million, and very good
quality material, of a type readily serviced in Panama, was obtained.
A number of other contracts were awarded to local firms by direct negotiation
for additional work such as airport fencing, improved drainage and the like.
DAC was also obliged to enter into unanticipated contracts with the utility
companies for power, water and telephone services. DAC preferred to let
individual contracts, where possible, to reduce costs but, in so doing,
increased the supervisory and coordinating workload.
3.04      Procurement procedures and results were, overall, satisfactory.
Tile, cement and cement products were the main products of domestic origin.
The work was executed by Panamanian tradesmen with only a few exceptions.
Project Schedule
3.05      The schedule for implementation adopted at the time of appraisal
envisaged invitations to bid being issued in September 1972. The major con-
tracts were expected to start in July 1973, and all works were estimated to
be complete by July 1975. The original plan was to have the earthmoving and
grading work started by December 1972 and sufficiently advanced by July
1973 to allow paving and terminal construction work to start at that time.
3.06      The actual start on the earthwork was April 1973, at the beginning
of the rainy season, and the paving contract was then scheduled to start in
August 1974. The paving contractor began producing base material in October
1974, but did not start his paving operation until April 1975. The work was
essentially completed by January 1977. The terminal building contract was
not awarded until May 1975 and was essentially completed in July 1978.
3.07      The delays in the paving operations were due to the earthmoving
contractor starting work at the beginning of the rainy season with inadequate
equipment. As a result, very little progress was made the first season. This
delay was compounded by the fact that there were long delays in the domestic
production of satisfactory concrete drainage pipe, which hampered drainage
work. A grade change to improve drainage had to be made, and DAC decided,
in addition, on the advice of the consultants, that surcharging a number of
areas on the runway was necessary. The time required for consolidation
of these areas was 12 to 18 months, which further delayed progress. The
actual paving operation was slow, but reasonably steady and of excellent
quality.
3.08      The terminal building and its related works were delayed, in the
first instance, by protracted reviews, redesign work and additional soil
borings to determine if any foundation problems existed because of geological
faults prevalent in the area. One of the satellite foundations had to be
redesigned as the result of the detection of an old water course with poor
bearing characteristics.
3.09      Foundation work started on the terminal in June 1975, and progress
was slow but steady. The scheduled date for contract completion was June



- 20 -
1977; because of revisions and the associated time required for decision-
making, however, it was anticipated that the work would not be completed
until November 1977. Unfortunately, labor slowdowns made progress very
difficult after the middle of 1977. There were few other jobs available
in Panama, and tradesmen, protected by the stringent Panamanian Labor
Laws, took every opportunity to extend the work as much as possible with
the result that the building was not completed until June 1978.
3.10      The major delay factors were design problems, the time required
for decision-making and labor problems. The original schedule did not allow
sufficient time even under normal conditions of good staff work, good design
and reasonable tradesman productivity.
Services of Consultants and Contractors
3.11      The first consultant (Parsons Corporation) engaged by DAC carried
out the feasibility study, the detailed engineering and the design, and
it expected to be engaged to carry out the supervision. The engineering and
architectural work was generally of high quality, but there were some defi-
ciencies, especially in the basic terminal building layout, the soils engineer-
ing and the earthmoving plan.
3.12      The consultants retained one of the most prestigious soil mechanics
consulting firms in the United States to carry out the basic investigations;
however, the actual field work was done by a Panamanian firm. No one really
controlled the Panamanian firm, but the soils consultants produced a report,
and the design consultants proceeded accordingly. A number of questions
were subsequently raised by Panamanian professionals to whom DAC had submitted
the soils report for comment. Another round of drilling was carried out,
and another report was issued by the soils consultants. DAC was not satisfied,
and further tests were made. Two critical points were at issue: first, there
was evidence of geologic fault lines crossing the proposed terminal building
location, which, in an earthquake zone, could be serious; and, second, the
runway was to be established in a swampy area of soft marine clays where
settlement was a potential problem. DAC elected to take a conservative
approach, which caused delay and increased costs; under the circumstances,
however, the decision was probably correct. Better results would have been
obtained if a well qualified firm had been solely and entirely responsible at
the outset for the soils investigation and had been charged with producing a
comprehensive testing program and analysis.
3.13      DAC's relations with the design consultants deteriorated to the
point that another group was selected to supervise construction and to redesign,
as required, the work of the original designer. This group, a consortium of a
Panamanian firm (Planos y Supervisiones Tecnicas, S.A. (PISTSA)), and a
large US consulting firm (Greiner Engineering Sciences, Inc.), took over
after the earthwork contract was awarded, and, consequently, they faced several
immediate problems that had to be resolved in the field. Again some delay was
inevitable; however, the consortium carried out its work conscientiously and
satisfactorily.



- 21 -
3.14      The terminal building design presented some problems, and the
original design consultant was requested to revise the design. This revision
was done reluctantly and not too completely. DAC made a major decision to
incorporate the control tower into the terminal, which caused additional
problems and some basic design changes.
3.15      Since it was obvious that the cost of the terminal building would
be much higher than originally estimated, DAC sought to reduce costs by con-
tracting design modifications in the package with the construction work. This
was negotiated with a consortium of a Panamanian firm and a U.S. design con-
struction firm (Linbeck-LACA) which was awarded the contract and has carried
out the design modifications and construction of the building.
3.16      From the outset, Parsons had proposed that the work would be done
in a series of contract packages with earthworks as a separate component.
The major contract works were the runway, the taxiway and apron and the
terminal building complex. The earthwork contractor (Energoprojekt from
Yugoslavia) was responsible for general site preparation and grading. He
began work at the beginning of the rainy season with inadequate equipment
and personnel. The contractor had expected to use men and equipment from
the Bayano Dam project. When this was not possible, it was necessary to
supplement his efforts by subcontracting with the paving contractor and
another Panamanian firm to provide equipment and trained operators. The
contractor created most of his own problems, but there were extenuating
circumstances, as explained in paragraph 3.07.
3.17      The paving contractor (ICC-Continental, a Panamanian-Mexican
Consortium) was unable to start on schedule because of the slow progress
of the earthwork. After initial startup problems, this contractor worked
slowly but steadily and the results of his work were very good.          e
3.18      The contractor for the terminal building complex (Linbeck-LACA)
performed very well. Considering the major design revisions plus the usual
changes during construction due to various user decisions and the labor
problems, the work proceeded satisfactorily and the quality was good.
3.19      A contract was awarded to a management consulting firm (Arthur Young
& Co.) to advise DAC on organization and administration. It produced and
installed a sophisticated accounting and management control system that DAC
has been unable and unwilling to use effectively. The system is more elaborate
than required at the moment, but, rather than scaling it down to actual needs,
DAC had largely neglected it until recently. Further comments on this issue
appear in paragraph 6.06.
Costs
3.20      The project costs overran the appraisal estimates by 121% as
indicated in Table 1. The major factors that affected the costs were an
unrealistic estimate for the cost of the terminal building at the time of
appraisal; design revisions for the earthwork, paving and terminal building
contracts; and additional works and compounded high inflation effects arising
from the delays in project execution. Based on information provided by DAC,



- 22 -
the final total cost of the project is estimated at US$77.0 million. Of this
sum, US$28.0 million is due to inflation, meaning that the cost in 1971 dollars
was US$49 million compared with US$32 million estimated in the appraisal
report. Of this difference of US$17 million, about US$5.0 million arose from
additional works not included at appraisal, US$2.5 million from additional
supervision and US$9.5 million from oversights in the cost estimates for project
items included at appraisal.
3.21      The original bid prices for the earthworks and the paving were
reasonable, but, because of oversight during design, the contracts did not
include work that had to be carried out subsequently, such as fencing the
airport, surcharging, additional drainage and grade changes on the runway and
in other areas of the airport.
3.22      In addition, in order to complete the project, DAC had to finance
works that were not contemplated at the time of appraisal, such as the con-
struction of a power line for the power authority, brought about by the power
company's decision not to relocate its main high voltage system and substation.
Additional work was done for the water and communications companies because
they were unable to finance the necessary works. DAC was also obliged to
finance, in part, a bypass road around the airport pending a major revision
of the connection to the Pan American highway at Tocumen village.
3.23      The cost of the terminal building complex was underestimated in the
first instance. As detailed engineering progressed, the cost estimates in-
creased. For example, the basic terminal complex was estimated at about US$10.0
million in 1971, US$10.6 million in 1972 and, in the consultants' final report
in 1974, US$20.7 million (including their design revisions); an independent
estimate at that time indicated that the cost would be closer to US$29.0 million.
In the interim, the terminal and apron facilities had been relocated and rotated
90 degrees, and, in 1972, both the terminal and runway locations were again
shifted. This led to more soil testing, increased costs and new engineering
problems that were fully resolved only during construction.
3.24      The appraisal estimate was based on a design engineering report
dated May 1971 which, in turn, was based on the master plan report presented in
December 1969 and on an addendum prepared in July 1970. The consultants'
final drawings for the paving were prepared in 1972, and those for the
terminal were prepared in 1974. Two points are apparent: the project had a
long gestation period, and significant design changes were made after appraisal.
The changes were beneficial, but it is unfortunate that they were not made
earlier to allow more detailed engineering and cost analysis. The appraisal
was carried out in 1971, two years prior to the oil crisis, while about 85% of
the work was carried out after the oil crisis, which led to unexpectedly high
inflation rates.
3.25      Ground support equipment was not included in the appraisal but
was installed by DAC. A hydrant refueling system, estimated to cost US$2.8
million, was installed by the airlines, and, while ownership will eventually
revert to DAC, it is not included in the costs.



- 23 -
Disbursement
3.26      Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan are as shown in Table 2.
It will be noted that, at the original closing date, only about 36% of the
loan was disbursed, and this reflected the general status of the project at
that time. The various delays that led to slow disbursement are discussed
under the project schedule part of this report.
IV. TRAFFIC AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.01      Traffic projections at appraisal were made for each five-year period
until 1990. The main categories of forecast traffic were arriving and depart-
ing passengers on international flights, passengers in transit at the airport
on international flights, passengers on domestic flights and air cargo on
international and domestic flights. Table 3 summarizes the appraisal fore-
casts and relates these figures to actual data and the new projections. It can
be seen that expected traffic in 1978 based on traffic for 1975-1977 for the
most important category, arriving and departing passengers on international
flights, is only slightly less than that predicted in the original appraisal.
All other categories of traffic are significantly lower than expected for a
variety of reasons and particularly because of the delays of the project. The
most important consideration was the economic effect of the energy crisis,
which slowed down anticipated travel generally and air cargo growth in particular.
The fact that Paitilla, the domestic airport close to Panama City, still
operates has an effect on the traffic at Tocumen, as evidenced by the domestic
traffic figures shown in Table 3. The most important factor for Panama, how-
ever, is the very slow growth of transit traffic, which was partly caused by
the delay in the completion of the new airport investment. Despite this, a
limited transition to wide-body aircraft has already taken place and the
.proportion in 1978 (7.5%) is already almost as high as that expected for
1980. This proportion is expected to increase more rapidly as a result of
the new project. Air cargo is also expected to develop more rapidly when
former passenger aircraft loading positions can be used for cargo flights.
4.02      Day-to-day operating performance of the airport has been good
despite the delay in the project's implementation. Part of the reason for
this has been the lower than anticipated traffic volume (para 7.05). Never-
theless, for some of the relatively few large aircraft movements, long
delays for fully' 'loaded aircraft have been experienced, as anticipated at
the time of appraisal.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
5.01      Table 4 shows that DAC's net operating income has generally
been higher than the levels forecast at appraisal and increased from 200
thousand Balboas in 1971 to 1.8 million Balboas in 1977 compared with
projected figures of 639 thousand in 1971 increasing to 976 thousand.



- 24 -
5.02      The net operating income has been higher than the appraisal pro-
jections because of both higher-than-forecast revenues and lower-than-forecast
expenses (para 5.03). Total revenues increased from 2.3 million Balboas in
1971 to 6.9 million Balboas in 1977, an average growth rate of 20%, compared
with a forecast growth from 2.5 million Balboas in 1971 to 6.6 million Balboas
in 1977, constituting a forecast growth rate of 17%. The reasons for the
better-than-forecast income are:
(a) Departure fees derived from international passengers were
increased from US$1 to US$3, then to US$5 instead of US$2 as
projected at the t:ime of appraisal. Thus, revenues from these
in 1977 were US$1,567,000 compared with US$858,000 forecast.
(b) Income received from rentals and concession fees has increased
more rapidly than anticipated because of the great success of
the duty-free shopping area available to both departing and
in-transit passengers at,Tocumen Airport. Thus, revenues from
these in 1977 were US$2,100,000 compared with US$1,665,000
forecast at appraisal.
These factors more than offset the effect of traffic being at slightly less-
than-forecast levels.
5.03      Operating costs have been lower than appraisal forecasts because
of the later-than-forecast commencement of operations at the new airport and
the resulting lower depreciation provisions being charged. In that forecast,
the new runway and terminal were scheduled to be operational during 1975;
thus, depreciation of the project assets commenced in that year at a rate
of about US$2 million per year. The delay in the project has meant that
the project assets are stilL being treated as construction in progress and are
not being used. This reduction in depreciation more than offsets the increase
in other operating costs over appraisal expectations. Cash operating expenses
were US$1.7 million in 1971, but increased to US$4.1 million in 1977 compared
with US$3.3 million in the appraisal forecast. The difference principally
reflects the inflation experience of Panama in the intervening period. It
was expected that salaries would increase by an average of 5% per year, but
the actual rate was about 10% per year. Total staff required has also been
slightly higher than anticipated. It was expected that about 600 people
would be employed by DAC once the new facilities were operational; however,
the actual figure at the end of 1977 was 686, and some further staff are
expected to be added in order to operate the new facilities. The difference
between the two figures arises principally from an increase in the number of
low level staff employed by DAC in the form of cleaners, attendants, etc. The
number of professional and management staff is, in fact, lower than was
forecast at appraisal and, to this extent, DAC has attempted to control
personnel costs. It does not appear that the higher figures for low level
staff reflect underestimation at appraisal but that there may be some over-
staffing in these instances.
5.04      Operating ratios were consistently lower than forecast throughout
the period, and the return on assets can be seen to have been consistently
higher. Both of these differences reflect the non-inclusion of the project
assets in the asset base and depreciation provisions.



- 25 -
5.05      The Balance Sheet figures are shown in Table 5, which compares
the actual figures for the period 1971-1977 with the appraisal projections.
It can be seen that there was a substantial difference in total assets by
1973, when forecast assets were-US$33-million and actual assets were US$15
million. This difference represents the effect of delays in the project;
work in progress was forecast to reach US$22 million by the end of 1973 but
actually had reached only US$4 million. By 1975, total assets were roughly
equal to forecast assets of US$41.7 million. However, the bulk of the actual
assets -- US$29 million -- was in work in progress rather than fixed assets
in operation as forecast.
5.06      The most recent Balance Sheet for the end of 1977 shows most
dramatically the effects of the delays and cost overruns in the project.
Total assets were US$87 million compared with US$37 million forecast at
appraisal, and net fixed assets were US$86 million compared with US$35
million forecast at appraisal. However, considering the substantial cost
overruns that were experienced on the project, the financial position was
fairly sound. Debt/equity ratio was 82/18 as forecast at appraisal for
this year, showing that the substantial quantity of additional debt that was
utilized to complete the project was proportionally matched by increases in
equity which were provided principally by retained earnings.
5.07      Table 6 summarizes the effects of the revision in the project
costs on the financing plan. It can be seen that total project costs amounted
to US$77.0 million as against an appraisal estimate of US$34.8 million.
Originally, the Bank component was US$20 million, leaving US$14.8 million
to be provided by DAC and the Government (US$1 million by DAC). Actually,
the Bank contributed only a net of US$17.4 million during the project con-
struction period given repayment before completion, and a total of US$59.6
million had to be provided by DAC/Government. The additional US$44.8 million
in other financing was provided from three sources:
Amount       %
US$ millions
Self-financing by DAC                         5.0         11
Government of Panama                         14.3         32
Venezuelan Investment Fund                   25.0         57
5.08      In general, the appraisal financial analysis seems to have been
soundly prepared, but the actual results have varied dramatically because of
the delayed implementation of the project and the high final cost. Revenue
and expense statements seem to have been conservative in that, in spite of
lower-than-forecast traffic affecting the former and higher-than-expected
inflation affecting the latter, the net operating results exceeded the appraisal
estimates. Once the project is completed, the financial position, in terms
of operating ratios and rate of return, will deteriorate considerably and
will be below the levels forecast for the first years after project comple-
tion. Increased tariffs for the new facilities will, however, mean that
the cash flow will be substantial and more than sufficient to meet DAC's



- 26 -
immediate needs for investment and debt service to the World Bank. Projected
rates of return and operating ratios are currently being developed in the
context of a revision of the rate of return covenant, which will essentially
give the borrower until the mid-1980s to reach the 6.5% target originally
specified by the Bank for 1980. This change in the covenant was justified
on the basis of the delay in completion of the project and the higher
investment costs (para 5.11).
Review of Financial Covenants
5.09      The principal financial covenants included in the Loan Agreement
were traditional--a minimum cash generation was required during the construc-
tion phase, minimum returns on completion and limitation on debt contracted.
While each of these was included for good reason, they were difficult to
apply under the actual turn of events. A more detailed discussion follows.
5.10      Section 5.01(a) required that the Borrower achieve a net internal
generation of funds of at least US$3 million equivalent in the years 1971
through 1975. Internal generation of funds was defined as operating income
less debt service. Actual net generation of funds under this definition
was US$5.3 million, or well in excess of the minimum. However, investments
in other airports were US$6.5 million during this period compared with US$0.9
million forecast at appraisal. Thus, although DAC complied with the cash
generation covenant, its net contribution to financing the new airport facili-
ties during this period was substantially less than the US$2.1 million antici-
pated. No limitation was placed on other investments by DAC, and no require-
ment was made that non-project investments above a certain size should be
approved by the Bank.   While some of these investments may have been worthwhile,
a limitation of this sort would have been a useful control on those that were
not worthwhile.
5.11      Section 5.01(b) of the Loan Agreement required that the Borrower
earn certain minimum financial rates of return in the years from 1976 onward.
These returns were determined on the assumption that the new assets would be
operational by that time. In fact, completion was delayed, and, thus, the
rates of return to be achieved for 1976 and 1977 were well above those that
were required under the Loan Agreement. Furthermore, the rate of return
imposed for 1978 was based on the assumption that the new facilities would
have been operational for over two years at that time; as it turned out,
these facilities are only ilow coming into operation. It is not reasonable
to expect the Borrower to earn the prescribed return during thc first year
of operation since tariffs would have to be increased by a further 40%
over the currently scheduled large increases in order to achieve this expec-
tation. It would have been better, considering the large size of the project
and possible slippages in its completion date, to have tied the returns to
the completion date, i.e., have wording which stated returns in first,
second, third, etc. year after completion.
5.12      Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement focused on the initiation of
debt increases by the Borrower and provided that cash generation from opera-
tions in the year preceding should exceed 1.4 x the debt payments in any
future year. However, the projections made during the appraisal showed
that DAC could not comply with this covenant until 1979, i.e., that was



- 27 -
the first year in which the cash flow was 1.4 x the debt service on the Bank
loan. In a situation where cost overruns and other investments were provided
by Government grants, this covenant placed no effective limitation on the
investment program and did not add to the financial strength of the institution.
5.13      Sections 5.03 and 5.04 required that the Borrower maintain adequate
records and use auditors acceptable to the Bank. Recording and auditing
were satisfactory but, while information was provided as required, formal
reporting was unsatisfactory in spite of requests to improve it.
5.14      Thus, in general, the financial covenants were found to be poorly
suited for the project as it actually developed. One of the main weaknesses
was that the focus of the covenants was on DAC as a whole. It appears in
retrospect that it would have been better to have prepared some covenants
focusing on the new facilities with other covenants focusing on other DAC
operations. These other operations have been continually loss-making and
should be restructured, in terms of tariffs, so that they are at least finan-
cially self-sufficient. As can be seen from Table 4, the losses from these
operations are becoming substantial, and the rate of return covenant was found
during supervision to be ineffective as a lever to restrict these losses.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.01      The key task for management during this period has been construction
of the new facilities; this is where most of the effort has been exerted and
management's success must be judged on the extent to which problems have
been overcome in this regard. However, the management of the Borrower has
been disappointing from an operational viewpoint. It appears to have been
unable to staff DAC fully and appropriately and avoid some investments in
non-project items because of political considerations. In this respect, it
is notable that, in spite of the Loan Agreement requirement that Paitilla
Airport be closed, investments have recently been made in upgrading this
airport, among other things, for night operations. In this report, it is
mentioned a number of times that changes in layout/design were made at the
Borrower's insistence. Generally these changes were justifiable and in some
cases proved to be necessary; thus the Borrower made positive contributions to
the project. In other cases, however, the Borrower's opinion was disputed by
the Bank. For instance, DAC's decision to locate the control tower in the
terminal building was considered to reduce the potential flexibility for
future use of this area and to be a more expensive approach. However, the
Bank reluctantly accepted the Borrower's decision and, in the end, made
contributions to financing this element.
6.02      It is to the credit of DAC staff that, in spite of the preoccupa-
tion with Tocumen, good progress has been made in promoting aviation safety,
air traffic control and training under the auspices of ICAO with UNDP funding.
The airport operations directorate has also made progress. There is still
much to be done in all departments, but, considering the staff and finan-
cial constraints, DAC has performed well.



- 28 -
6.03      With respect to the covenants of Article IV of the Loan
Agreement, the first covenant (Section 4.01) requires the Borrower to
manage its affairs and to carry out its operations in accordance with
sound business, financial and civil aviation practices, all of which it
is attempting to do. The same section requires that competent management
and qualified technical staff be provided at an appropriate staffing level.
DAC does have some good staff, but, as a result of austerity measures in
force in Panama, the salary levels to attract and retain well qualified
staff do not exist. Until the Government eases the controls on DAC, this
situation is not likely to improve. DAC's staff at present is short of
good managerial and top quality technical talent, is adequate at the
middle levels and is overstaffed in the unskilled category.
6.04      DAC has complied with the covenant (Section 4.03) to provide
suitable aircraft operating procedures. It has also complied with Section
4.08, which requires the establishment of a zoning ordinance in the vicinity
of Tocumen. Section 4.04 requires that the municipal airport of Paitilla
be closed not later than one year after the opening of the new facilities
at Tocumen; therefore, no action is required until August 1979. The Govern-
ment, known to be reluctant to close the airport, is restudying the
advantages and disadvantates of such action. If a good argument for its
continued operation is found, and provided that the airport is operated in
accordance with good aviation practices and recovers its operating costs,
there may be some justification for waiving this covenant.
6.05      Section 4.06 required that the Borrower would engage consultants
to prepare a civil aviation plan for Panama; however, because of the cost
overruns, there was no money available to finance this work. Panama has
the components of a plan, but these are not available in a comprehensive
form as yet. However, work is well under way on its preparation with the
assistance of an expert from ICAO. The plan should be ready toward the
end of 1978.
6.06      The Bank loan included a substantial component for management
assistance through consultants (Arthur Young and Company) which resulted
in the preparation of administration, financial planning and maintenance
procedures. Although this work was obviously required in view of the large
increase in operations taking place, the results were mixed. There were
definite improvements in financial procedures, for instance, but many of
the other specific suggestions were ignored. This issue was discussed
with the Borrower, who suggested the following reasons for the failure of
these aspects of the assistance:
(a) The consultants' limited knowledge of airport operations;
(b) The consultants' inadequate Spanish;
(c) The inappropriate timing of the assistance, i.e., well
before facilities were constructed; and
(d) The high cost of the consultants' services.



- 29 -
From the Bank's point of view, it appears, in retrospect, that the consult-
ants' recommendations were ,well thought out but poorly implemented. The final
result of the assistance was a series of procedural manuals which were lengthy
to read, comprehend and implement, and DAC was not convinced that the required
effort on their behalf was justified. In areas where specific implementation
assistance was provided, such as accounting, the assistance was very success-
ful. The Bank should have supervised the implementation of these procedures
closely and reviewed DAC's problems with the manuals at the outset. Following
later suggestons made during supervision, DAC received assistance through an
ICAO expert who has worked hard on increasing the utilization of the proce-
dures, and they are now proving to be quite effective.
6.07      One important matter was not covered in the loan covenants.    Part
of the justification (economic) for the project was savings in passenger time.
It was assumed that increases in peak handling capacity of the airport
facilities would move the passengers more quickly. Actually, a main bottle-
neck seems to continue to be Government officials--customs and immigration--
who are slow and outside the control of DAC. The success of the new facilities
will depend on the chances for lessening these inspection delays after comple-
tion of the project, and it is unfortunate that, at appraisal, some guarantee
of improvements in these services was not insisted upon.
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
Economic Return
7.01      The appraisal analysis separated benefits over 20 years for the
two main parts of the project, i.e., the passenger terminal and the runway/
taxiway complex. This reappraisal does not repeat this separate analysis
because a large portion of the savings of wide-bodied aircraft and reduced
aircraft delays are attributable to the new building and the fact that two
runways are now going to be used. A separate analysis of the benefits from
the new runway shows that it is economically justified. For the appraisal,
five main sources of benefits were identified: (a) time savings for
passengers, (b) time savings for aircraft at the terminal, (c) transport
cost savings from a shift to more cost-effective wide-body aircraft as a
result of runway improvements, (d) reduced runway maintenance costs, and
(e) more efficient runway use for Panama through the closing of Paitilla.
7.02      The concentration of air traffic at one airport, Tocumen, would
avoid the costs of the operation of two separate airports. The main evaluated
benefit of this aspect was the value of released urban land at the closed
Paitilla airport. The total rate of return was 18% or 20% depending on
the assumptions concerning passenger time values. Based on actual construc-
tion cost and on present and projected traffic, a new rate of return would
be 14% if Paitilla is closed in the near future and 13% if it is not.
7.03      The reduction of the rate of return primarily reflects the more
than doubled construction cost, caused mostly by inflation and the delayed



- 30 -
project completion. Inflation on benefits has partly counteracted cost
increases, but both aircraft and passenger time cost increases have been
less than cost inflation for major construction and equipment contracts
in the same time period.
Economic Analysis
7.04      The economic analysis for this completion report compares the
actual investment with the appraisal alternative above with 18% return. The
Bank, in recent years, has valued personal time at 25% of working time.
Using this value, the return would be approximately equal to that yielded
by the lower time value of passengers assumed during appraisal. On this
basis, the average time value per passenger increased from US$5.00 per hour
in 1970 prices to US$8.55 in 1976 prices. The weighted average for aircraft
time values in 1970 prices similarly increased from US$766 (1975) and US$838
(1980) to US$1,543 per block hour in 1976 prices weighted according to January
1978 departures. Prices in 1976 were chosen because the median year for
airport investment was 1976.
7.05      The other main component in the appraisal analysis other than hourly
value of time saved was the actual passenger and aircraft hours likely to
be saved. A two-week survey was done at Tocumen in the first half of
December 1977 to ascertain present passenger processing times and aircraft
gate delays. On the basis of this survey, it is estimated that 184,600 hours
of passenger time would have been gained for 1977 if the new terminal and
runway had been in operation. Correspondingly for aircraft, 832 hours of
taxiway delays and 402 hours of gate delays could have been saved. This may
be compared to an appraisal estimate of 192,400 passenger hours in 1975
(325,000 in 1980) and 874 aircraft hours in 1975 (1,154 in 1980), most of
these arising from gate delays. Thus, as a result of slow growth in transit
traffic and a relatively even spread of flight arrivals and departures
(spreading the peak), passenger delays have been less than anticipated.
A slightly larger proportion of wide-body aircraft and the use of two runways
give higher aircraft delay savings despite a more evenly spread demand.
7.06      The appraisal estimated as a benefit the avoided cost of regular
resurfacing of the old runway. The delay of the completion of the project
required these repairs and an overlay to be carried out. Since heavy aircraft
are using, and will continue to use, the old runway at least occasionally,
maintenance costs for this runway have been incurred and will continue in
the future. On the other hand, the use of two runways at the new airport
generates a significant taxi distance savings which outweighs any cost
savings made possible by a closing of the old runway. An important factor
not anticipated in the appraisal is the growth of business carried out
by tax-free shops at the airport, which will have an anticipated turnover
of US$14.5 million in 1979 compared to an actual US$8.3 million turnov2r
in 1977.  The rented areas for2this purpose will increase from 1,002 m
in the old terminal to 1,651 m in the new one.
7.07      These tax-free shops are located in a temporary wing of the
old terminal added after the appraisal in 1970. The airport sales have
been calculated as about one-third of the incremental turnover, which would
represent non-foreign inputs such as DAC rentals, profits and remuneration



- 31 -
to labor. Included also is the net benefit (allowing for hotel invest-
ment) to Panama of some 40 permanent hotel rooms used for airline crews
in transit, which would not be used in a situation without the project.
7.08      For the first 12 months of operation in 1978/79, this would mean the
following benefits:
APR            PCR
(US$'000)
Savings of wide-body aircraft         1,130          1,390
Aircraft delays                         830             689 gate
1,425 taxiway
Passenger-time savings                1,320          1,753
Airport sales (net)                       -           2,403
3,280          7,660
Benefits to Panama
7.09      The Panama Airport project was the first Bank-financed airport
project. The economic analysis, as in all such projects at that time,
included benefits to all users regardless of nationality. All aviation
projects analyzed since that time have included only the direct benefits
to the economy of the borrowing country. A similar analysis for Tocumen
would disregard benefits to foreign passengers and aircraft and replace them
by foreign exchange earnings from improved services provided to such users.
The net effect of this would be a reduction of total quantified benefits by
about 25%, giving a rate of return of 11% if Paitilla is closed and 10% if it
is not.
7.10      Furthermore, the above quantified benefits underestimate the value
of a good Tocumen airport for the economy of Panama in several ways. As
pointed out in the appraisal, the economy of Panama is highly service-
oriented, and rapid and frequent transportation of passengers is vital. Many
of the visitors are tourists (over 50% of all passengers), for whom lower
air fares made possible by wide-body aircraft are important. Thus, as an
example, despite the fact that aircraft costs doubled from 1970 to 1977,
the cheapest return air fare between Miami and Panama increased only from
US$130 in 1971 to US$164 in 1978. Another important benefit which has only
partly been taken into account is the operation of the airport itself.    It
presently provides a total employment of about 3,300 people, including not
only airlines, aircraft maintenance and shop staff, but also workers required
for the many subsidiary activities taking place at the airport. A recent
estimate indicates that a total salary figure of about US$15 million was
paid to the personnel in 1977. In addition, 35.6 million gallons of avia-
tion fuel at a cost of about US$17 million were delivered at the airport.
A large part of this fuel was refined in Panama. For 1979, the working
expenses for the DAC airport operations are expected to be US$5.0 million
while the shops, etc. will have a turnover of US$14.5 million. One hotel
(190 rooms) is already largely dependent on passengers and crews staying



- 32 -
over between flights, and two more hotels are planned. The airport-related
business is therefore at least US$50.0 million per year, a large part of
which is from Panamanian inputs. Much of this is dependent on good airport
services. The investment in the new airport will not only encourage these
activities but will avoid a loss of business occasioned by reduced transit
flights, which would be the long-term result of a non-competitive airport.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01      The fact that the revised economic review of the project's justi-
fication shows a return of over 13%, in spite of the less favorable traffic
forecast and the cost overruns experienced, indicates that the overall project
was sound. Furthermore, the general concept of the project still appears to
be appropriate regardless of the changes that have occurred in the aviation
industry during the period between appraisal and completion. In particular,
the decision to build a second runway rather than extend the old one is
shown to have been a good one (para. 7.01). However, the substantial cost
overruns and delays that occurred in the project raise questions about whether
the Bank's performance could have been better.
8.02      In this respect, it is evident that the Bank's contribution prior
to appraisal in terms of improving the feasibility study, the preliminary
design and the determination of institution building requirements was very
significant. However, much of this technical evaluation relied upon reviews
of the consultants' reports made in the Bank or in Los Angeles where their
offices were located. Reliance centered more upon the consultants' field
work than upon a detailed evaluation at the site. It is estimated (para. 3.20)
that some 35% of the cost overruns were spent on necessary items that should
have been included in the original design estimates; thus, the cost estimates
made at appraisal appear to have been unrealistic. While detailed design
would not have been necessary to identify these items, better soils data
should have been obtained.
8.03      The Bank's appraisal estimates of time requirements seem to have
been over-optimistic. Even if the execution problems had not arisen, this
project could not have been completed in the time allowed, and another year
would have been needed. The Bank's operating forecast of traffic and
finances appears to have been somewhat conservative in that traffic was only
marginally lower than forecast and yet the changes in worldwide traffic as
a result of the changed oil price situation were dramatic.
8.04      Bank supervision was not sufficient either in terms of time
provided or in terms of breadth of focus. The amount of time allowed
was only about 20 man-weeks in the field over six years on a particularly
difficult project which was experiencing continual problems. This fact
reflects the shortage of technical aviation staff available for the project
during the period. Furthermore, the Bank reorganization late in 1972
meant that there was a complete turnover of Bank staff at the start of the
implementation and supervision cycle; the project officer had left the Bank,



- 33 -
the financial analyst and economist were reassigned and a new division
chief took over the project. A new engineer was assigned in November 1972
and has remained with the project, but no financial analyst could be
spared for other than cursory supervision until January 1976. Generally,
during supervision, priority was given to the pressing technical problems,
and this left little time to be devoted to the institutional issues. While
later management at DAC was by no means weak, more Bank effort should have
been made, especially during the implementation phase of the technical
assistance for management and organization problems.
8.05      The working relationship with the Borrower was quite good, but the
Bank was still unable to persuade the Borrower to alter certain decisions
during execution such as the location of the control tower. However, the
Borrower was cooperative in discussing problems and providing information
as required and was responsive to a number of the Bank's suggestions.
8.06      There are still several important problems facing DAC in that
the new facilities are just opening, startup problems are bound to occur
and studies have to be completed (para 6.05). In this respect, it appears
that some extension of the supervision after completion would be appropriate
and could be one of the most effective contributions that the Bank could make.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01      Although the project was undertaken with a newly organized Borrower
and executed during a period of spectacularly rising construction costs, the
project was carried out generally successfully and the Bank's initial finan-
cial support did not have to be increased.
9.02      In spite of the problems experienced during execution, it does not
appear that final costs would have been reduced or that the project would have
benefited from completion of detailed design prior to appraisal because this
detailed design would have contained the same flaws that existed in the
preliminary design. It would have been better to have analyzed the pre-
liminary design more carefully.
9.03      Although the project experienced a change from the design consult-
ants in the supervision stage, this does not seem to have been a major contri-
butor to the problems experienced. A more important factor was the change
in Borrower management.
9.04      In cases where substantial institution building is involved in the
project, sufficient emphasis should be placed on this aspect during super-
vision.
9.05      Covenants which require the closure of certain facilities upon
completion of project components intended to replace them should be presented
in such a way that the intended action actually takes place during implemen-
tation, especially in cases where the main group affected by such closures
is very influential.



- 34 -
9.06      The financial covenants focused on DAC as a whole rather than
separately on the Tocumen Airport and DAC's other operations with the re-
sult that it was difficult to exert fiscal discipline.
9.07      Projects involving substantial institution building designed to
prepare the borrower for a substantial increase in management responsibility
should be considered for further supervision for a limited period after start-
up of operation of the project components. It should be clearly established
in such cases that the entities involved (Government and/or implementing agen-
cies) will be receptive to Bank advice, and that the benefits will exceed the
costs (in terms of additional budgetary resources) to the Bank.
9.08      Better soils data should have been obtained prior to appraisal.



-  35    -                                           TABLE     1
PROJECCT CQiPWMON REPORT
PANAmA - LOAN 783-PAN
TCocW    INTZRT1ONBAL ARURT
Actual and AP-aisdal EatimCas of Pro1ect Cost
AppraisAl                                  AcCtul 1                      Actual Cost as a
Local          Foreign     Tocal            Local          Foreign      Total           Percentage of
Balboas (0001    USS (000)    U55 (000)     Balboaa (000)    US$ (000)    USS (000)      Appraisal Escimace
Runwav and Taxiway                       3,731           3,732       7,463
Apron                                    1,503           1,837       3,340
Runway, Taxiway Lighcing                   110             215         325                           3/
Approach Lighting and ILS                   49             276         325
Subtotal   Runway System            5.393           6.060     11 453          12.668          10.826      23.494                 212
Terminal Building                        4,841           5,918      10,759
Access Roads, Ucilities                    495           1,281       1,776                           3/
Crash Rescue Building                       63              72         135
Control Tower                               83             249         332            -              -            -
Subcotal  Terminal Complex          S4.82           7 520     13.002          17.909          20,102      38.011                 292
Subcocal   Project Works           10.875          13.580     24.455          30.577          30,928      61,505
Design                                     418           1,230       1,648            668           1.266        1,934                117
Supervision                                450             750       1,200          2,266           2.134        4,400                366
Management Consultants                     125             375         500             172            400          572                114
Subtotal Consultants                  993           t 355      3.348           3.106           3,800       6.906                 206
Concingencies - Physical                 1.562           2,495      4,057
Price                  1t370            1.570      2,940
Project Cosc                            14.800          20.000     34.800          33.683          34,728      68.411                 197
Additional Comoonents 2/
Land                                                                                  439              -           439
Furnishings. Equipment, etc.                                                        1,200             800        2,000
Power Supply                                                                        1,157             496        1,653
Road Work                                                                             808              -          808
Cround Support Equipment                                                              528           2,113        2,641
Domestic Terminal                                                                     106             118          224
Subtotal                                                                         436             373         809
4 674           3.900        8.574
.ocal Cosc                              14A800          20.000     34.800          38.357          38.628      76 985                 221
i/ Based on data provided by DAC *a of Dacmber 1977 and must be conaidered as approximate only as final coac have aoCt yet been
determined.
'/  Componencs financed by DAC but noc included in appraisl estimates.
3/  As woric was not done in units correspanding to appraisaL estimtes, direct ciperison is not reliable.
Source: DAC estimaCes
may 1?78



-36 -                                 TABLE 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA - LOAN 783-PAN
TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Schedule of Disbursements as of 31 December 1977
Accumulated Disbursements (US$ Millions)
Actual Disbursements
Latest         as a percentage of
Actual Total     Appraisal    Revised         Appraisal or Revised
Disbursements    Estimate     Estimate              Estimate
(9/22/76)
1971 -December 31         -         1.0
1972 - June 30          1.1         2.5                                   44%
Dec. 31          1.1         4.2                                   26%
1973 - June 30          1.1         8.4                                   13%
Dec. 31          1.4        12.8                                   11%
1974 - June 30          3.6        15.8                                   23%
Dec. 31          4.9        18.2                                   27%
1975 - June 30          7.2        20.0                                   36%
Dec. 31         11.3          -            11.3                   100%
1976 - June 30         13.9          -             14.0                   93%
Dec. 31         16.8          -             17.9                   94%
1977 - June 30         18.8          -             19.5                   96%
Dec. 31         20.0          -             20.0                  100%
Closin3 Date                       12/31/75      3/31/78
Source: Disbursement Division
June 1978



- 37 -                               TABLE 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAHA - LOAN 783-PAN
TOCUI1N INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Actual and Appraisal Airport Traffic Projections
Passengers (000) International
Actual        APR Estimate          Actual      PCR Estimate
1969     1975     19781/    1980    1975    1978    1980   1985
Arr. & Dep.        417.2      693     914       1100     666     873    996    1343
Transit            199.3      310     393        460     234     297    318     369
616.5     1003     1307      1560     900    1170    1314   1712
Domestic            91.5      180     254        320      80      93    101     120
Air Cargo (000) tons
International
Arriving            10.1                                 12.0   14.9   15.3    16.3
Departing           14.0                                 20.6   24.9   27.9    37.1
24.1     53.0     72.3      89.0     32.6   39.8    43.2   53.4
1/ Interpolated between 1975 and 1980
Source: DAC estimates
June 1978



P8ROJECIT COMPLETI ON REVORr
iPANAMA - LOAN /Itl3-PAN
TiCIINEN IN 'tERNATf ONAL A1RPORIT
Acttial and Prolected Income. Stat.menrts of [(AC, 1971 - 1977 (Figures in Balboas 'o00)
1971                             1973                             1975                            1977
Actual         Appraisal         Actual        Appraisal         Acttal         Apprai al        Actual         Appraisal
Forecust                         Forecast                        Forecast                        Forecast
Tocua.egn Airport
Oper-ating Reveatiies:
Landing Fees                       693              834          1,657             1,482         2,116             2,333          2,141             2,729
Fuel Tax                           449              506            527               542           495               612            533               714
Departure Tax                      417               500           569               580         1,433               708          1,567               858
tLaer  ___                        580               704           954               761          1,576            1.421          2,337             2,069
Stib-Total                       2,139            2,544          3,707             3,365         5,620             5,074          6,578             6,370
Operating Expenses:
WoFking Costs                      109               797           976               939          1,735            1,401          1,920             1 552
Depreciation                       125               99            179               108           307             1,398            555             2,093
overheai     _                     417              481            555               650            740              775            818               848
Suib-Total                       1,251             1,377         1,710             1,697         2,782             3,574          3,293            4,493
Net Operating licoime                     889             1,167          1,997            1,668          2,838             1,500         3,285             1,877
Other Airpo2!S
Reveniues                             123                98           142               120            191               162           333               204
Expenaes
Workinig Couts                     439               310           470               455            876              602            900               679
Oepreciatious                      200               196           255               215            278              212            454               223
Overhead.                          175            _120             2Qf               162            255              194            448               212
Sub-Total                          814              626            925               832         1,409             1,008          1,802             1,114
Net Operatlngflncuae (loss)              (691)             (528)          (783)            (712)        (1,218)             (846)       (1,469)             (910)
DAC Total
Operating llucO5e /(Los,)             198               639         1,214               956          1,620               654         1,815               976
Ilnterest Expenses                     74                46            30               700            -              1,421              3             1,386
Net olther loicowi,e AExpense)      i  23)             (212)                             -              22              -               18 
Net Income(fLoea)       2_              4               _2          __M_             -__7_           1 TM              (767)         1.830              (419)
Memao Iteuss
Operatinig Ratio                     0.91              0.76          0.68             0.77           0.79             0.88            0.79              0.85
Return on NeL Assets in              2.7               8.6          14.3             11.7            16.0             2.3            10.1               2.7
Operatloi (I.)
Source: IDAC ankd Appraisal Report
l.--l 1'178



I'KOJLC'r ClMPLETiON REPtRT
i'ANAMA - L)AN 783-PAN
TOCMEMEN INTERNATIONAl. AIRPORT
Actual isid Proiected Balance Sheets of the Airport Alithority. 1971 - 1977 (Figures ill Balboss  000)
1971                               1973                              1975                              1977
Actual        Apprasiaal           Actjual       Appraisal           Actnial      Appraisal           Actual        Appraisal
Forecast                           Forecast                          Forecast                         Forecast
Asets:
Current Asseta:
Cash1                                 541          1,646               1,701         2,300                 644         2,051                 609         1.104
Accounts Payable                      244           317                  449           418               1,273           628               1,608           788
InvenaL rles _and Other               115            40                   87            50                 250            75                o67            100
Sub-Total                             900          2,003               2,237         2,768               2,167         1,992               2,284         t,992
Fixed Assets:
Land                                3,378         4,128                3,378         4,128               3.456         2,844               3,476         2.844
Runways                             2,504          2,256               2,935         2,496               4.591        11,821               8,773        12.521
Buildings                             832            794               1,125           894               1,184        20,604               2,197        20,804
EQulrxeoi                           1.819          1.677               2.329         170                 2,946         6,631               3,908         6,697
Total Fixed Assets In Operation     8,533          8,855               9,767         9,225              12,883        41,906              18.354        42,866
less: Accumulated Depreciationx       539           524                1365          1.197               2406          3,325              4.061          7,956
Net Fixed Assets In Operation       7,994          8,331               8,402         8,028              10,477        38,581              14,293        34,910
Construction in Proaress            2,145          1,700               4.279         21.750             28,798          -                 70,545
Net fixed Assets                   10,139         10,031              12,681        29,778              39,275        38,581              84,838        34,910
(Itier Assets                        -                50                -               50U               -              450                 -             350
rotol Assets                       11a039         12.084              14.918        33,046              41,442        41,785              87,222        37.252
liabilitles anid Equlty
Current Liabtilities
Accounts Payable                      422.           272                 663           323               1.087           410               1,805           485
Current Portion of Debt               841            106                 133            106                695          1,601              2,432          1.805
Interest Payable                       78            -                     9           -                   -            -                    336          -
Sub-Total                           1,341            378                 805           429               1,782         2,011               4,573         2,290
Long Ierm Debt:
World Bank                           -             1,000               1,276         12,750             10,300         19,305             17,335         17,755
G.vernment                            899            750               2,72b          9,500             14,432         13,000             22,931        11,000
i)tber                                399            494                 188            282              1,135             70             24-288
Sub-Total                           1,218          2,244               4,190         22,532             25,867        32,375              64, 554       28,755
Capital                             7,448          7,376               7,522          7.376              8,255          5,683              8,569          5,683
hetained Earnings                   1,032          2086                2401          2,709              5538          1,716               9 525           524
Sub-Total                           8,480          9,462               92            10,085             13,793          7,399             18,094         6,207
I_ota l .aWlities and EQuiLj            11,039        12,084              14,918          ,                 41,442        41,785              87,222         31,252
Source: Appralial Report and DAC
Junle 198



PROJECT C0t4PI.ET1ON tFPOHT
PANAMA - LOAN 783-PAN
TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Actuial and Appraisal Expectation of Project Financing
Local Currency                                               Foreign  Currency
Actual                    Appraisal Estimate                    Actual                   Appraisal Estimate
Balboa '000     %           Balboa (003)      %                 US$(000)       %          A%000L          /
Lrce of Ftinda
Self Financing by DAC           6,000           16           1,000           7
Covernment of Panama            28,600          75          13,800          93
I                                               _KD          _              _                  17,385          45           20,000       100
Other International Agencies     3,757           9                                             21,243           55
(F.I.V.)
ToL   (.l                       38,357         100\         14,800         100                 38,628         100           20,000       100
wrce: DAC
,ne 1978



- 41 -                    TABLE 7
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA - LOAN 783-PAN
TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Summary Status of Principal Covenants
Agreement                    Commitment                         Action
1.   Loan Agreement     (a)  Borrower to manage its affairs          Done
Section 4.01            in accordance with sound busi-
ness, financial and civil aviation
practice.
(b)  Borrower to maintain an adequate        Hampered by
staffing level.                         Government pay
restrictions and
staffing regula-
tions but essen-
tial functions
satisfactory.
2.   Loan Agreement          Borrower to maintain all plant          Done
Section 4.02            in accordance with sound engi-
neering and civil aviation
practices.
3.   Loan Agreement          Borrower to develop new operating       Done
Section 4.03            procedures for Tocumen.
4.   Loan Agreement          Borrower to close Paitilla Airport      Not required
Section 4.04            one year after opening new Tocumen.     until July 1980.
5.   Loan Agreement          Borrower to retain management con-      Study done; report
Section 4.05            sultants and implement new approved     prepared but only
system.                                 partially imple-
mented.
6.   Loan Agreement          Borrower to develop a national          Study and develop-
Section 4.06           aviation plan.                           ment of plan under
way.
7.   Loan Agreement          Borrower to maintain adequate           Government self
insurance.                              insures.



- 42 -                   TABLE 7
Page 2
Agreement                    Commitment                        Action
8.   Loan Agreement         Borrower to institute a                 Done
Section 4.08           zoning ordinance for Tocumen.
9.   Loan Agreement    (a)  Borrower to establish adequate          Done
Section 5.01           user charges to achieve a net
internal generation of funds
equivalent to US$3.0 million in
1971 through 1975.
(b)  Adjust user charges to achieve         Achieved 1976.
an annual rate of return of 1.5%        Stated returns for
in 1976 up to 6.5% in 1980 and          1979 onwards will
thereafter.                             not be achieved,
covenant to be
modified.
10.  Loan Agreement         Borrower not to incur debt              Done.  Additional
Section 5.02           at any time unless net cost             debt required to
generation is 1.4 times maximum         complete project
debt service requirement.               contracted by the
Government.
11.  Loan Agreement         Borrower shall maintain adequate        Borrower has
Section 5.03           records and books of account.           complied.
12.  Loan Agreement         Borrower shall have its accounts        Borrower has
Section 5.04           audited by a qualified outside          complied.
auditor.
July 1978



IBRD 2732R2
no                                                      er                       or                       Sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  NOVEMBER 1978
C   A   R   I   B   B   E   A   N        S   E   A
<                                                   /                                 portoio)LONISLAS DE SAN BLAS
tt i ~~~~Almirante$>P_i) _C _ 
CI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CL
Wa/)~ ~~~CrepA     Gualoce e\    .--------r  K
Prenese 1 0   * DAVUID CO HI RI 0 U F            *  00 Y.goedelt  *hm9t   Pecerme DAR\ EN_
-rl-   ' Telid          S6eIj             V ERo  AG UPe<#u ASse      Aie *    G~ SenCariesN         A   A8          Goccie                       S
,, r,, r ;:: ,~~~~~~~ Guobold) /   3    A So'nuPrereisn      P*uertoe Obli
'N'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tOT'
A.1~~~~~~~~~
ano de  P00,1         -  Ine-Aeejo  ih
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        -   PULFOMEns od rou\. X<L  te,m9 Intor-Amoniacr Higirnoy  * 
< ISL e) )\>           Pitaleee  ( ,<LOS  SANTOS  X Fe d i __ Poee d o>ule, nAsr ell-osernlghey \  r- Ae s |
;O  DU  A  CAC(OOEAS SEA                                                            Port              . .m * 
EL SA                                                                       >p PANAMA Ch- i ._._,Pn.em Cenal                       C O  L  M IA
0                                                                    iPANAMA    P-PANAMA                                                   /
EL SALOADOR  NICRAOOA  L.IFoCore Zone bCLndbrle
RICOA         VENEZOEL                                    L E                      10 Z,
NICIFgC O CEAN  - on7/,,| CoL0"51A  SIZ  F  |  C                     as-                M Lrs;    eo                   76DA I E
PACIFI  OCEA      C     ILRMIIR  P  AI               C. 0Y               A           0   OPd0     50
SO                   .f-S    C.                       0                O.bEER.'



