                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                Report No. 88547




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                   Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                (IDA-36731 IDA-36730 TF-51248)




                                 June 25, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                iii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages, select years)
Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR)

2002    US$1.00          LKR96.7
2005    US$1.00          LKR102.0
2010    US$1.00          LKR111.1
2011    US$1.00          LKR113.9
2012    US$1.00          LKR128.2
2013    US$1.00          LKR126.9

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AU        Administrative Unit
DFCC      Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
GEF       Global Environmental Facility
IDA       International Development Association
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IFC       International Finance Corporation
kW        Kilowatt
MW        Megawatt
MWh       Megawatt-Hour
NCRE      Non-Conventional Renewable Energy
PCI       Participating Credit Institution
PUCSL     Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
PV        Photovoltaic
RERED     Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development (Project)
SEA       Sustainable Energy Authority
SHS       Solar Home System
SPPA      Standardized Power Purchase Agreement
VHP       Village Hydro Project




Fiscal Year

Government:              July 1 – June 30




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                   :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                             :   Mr. Varadarajan Atur
                                                                   iv



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1.Background and Context.................................................................................................. 1
2. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development (RERED) project ...................... 7
   Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 7
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 11
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 15
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 20
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 21
3. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 29
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 31
Annex B. List of WB Energy Projects in Sri Lanka ......................................................... 34
Annex C: Additional Data Tables and Figures ................................................................ 35
Annex D. List of Persons Met........................................................................................... 39

Figures

Figure 1: Rate of electrification in Sri Lanka (1976-2012) ............................................... 2
Figure 2: Structure of the Electricity Industry in Sri Lanka ........................................... …3
Figure 3: Cost of Power Generation (LKR/kWh) from Various Power Plants .................. 5

Tables

Table 1: Evolution of Installed Capacity and Peak Demand (2000-12) ............................ 4




This report was prepared by Varadarajan Atur, who assessed the project in March 2014. The report was
peer reviewed by Raihan Elahi and panel reviewed by Robert Lacey. Romayne Pereira provided
administrative support.
                                                         v


Principal Ratings
                                    ICR*                      ICR Review*                        PPAR
Outcome                         Satisfactory                                                  Satisfactory
Risk to                     Negligible to Low                                             Negligible to Low
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                Satisfactory                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                        Satisfactory                                                  Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department.
The ICR Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
Project                   Task Manager/                   Division Chief/                 Country Director
                                                          Sector Director
Appraisal             Subramaniam V. Iyer                Penelope J. Brook               Mariana Todorova
Completion               Abdulaziz Faghi                     Jyoti Shukla                  Gaye Diarietou
                                                                 vi



                  IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
                                              independent evaluation.


About this Report
      The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first, to ensure
the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the expected results, and
second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons drawn from
experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the Bank’s lending operations through field work. In
selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to
upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments;
and those that are likely to generate important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other documents, visit
the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank
staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower for review. IEG
incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are attached to the document
that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to
the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
      IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending
instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project
ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional information is available on
the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved,
efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes relevance of objectives
and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s objectives are consistent with the
country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Relevance of design is the extent to which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to
which the project’s objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.
Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected outcomes)
will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High, Significant, Moderate,
Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation and
supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for
regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The
rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision. Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing agency or
agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government performance and implementing
agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
                                             vii


Preface

This Project Performance Assessment Report, prepared by the Independent Evaluation
Group (IEG), evaluates Sri Lanka’s Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Project (2002-2011).

The project was approved on January 22, 2002 with an IDA Credit (IDA-36731) and
GEF Grant (TF-51248) of US$ 75 million and $8 million respectively. Additional IDA
financing of US$ 40 million (IDA-36730) was approved in 2007 to meet the greater than
expected demand for financing sub-projects. The final IDA contribution was US$121
million, about 5 percent higher than planned, while the GEF grant was close to the
planned amount of US$8 million. The total project cost was US$254 million, about 10
percent higher than the original estimate of US$232 million. The project was
restructured twice – first, on October 18, 2010 to reduce the target for the ‘off-grid
renewables’ component from 161,000 units to 113,500; and next on June 16, 2011 to
extend the closing date by six months to enable ongoing investments to be completed.
The project was closed on December 31, 2011, three and a half years after the originally
planned completion date of June 30, 2008.

The project supported the country’s priorities for providing sustainable electricity access
to its unserved population, especially for improving the quality of life in rural areas, by
utilizing off-grid renewable energy technologies and promoting private sector
involvement in renewable energy resources for the main grid. The project also sought to
reduce atmospheric carbon emission by removing barriers and reducing implementation
costs for renewable energy and removing barriers to energy efficiency.

IEG considered several factors in choosing this project for an assessment. Sri Lanka is
widely regarded as having made significant progress in improving generation capacity
and electricity access over the last decade and as having effectively employed both off-
grid and grid-connected renewable energy in the process. In this effort, the role of
microfinance institutions and the private sector is particularly noted. Collectively, these
efforts are seen to have placed Sri Lanka on the road to universal access to electricity, in
sharp contrast to the other large countries in South Asia that lag behind in electrification.
The World Bank has played a significant role in supporting the electricity sector in Sri
Lanka over the past fifteen years, providing nearly US$300 million for investment, policy
reform and technical assistance. Examining the performance of this project can add to our
understanding of the Bank’s role and effectiveness in supporting Sri Lanka’s electricity
sector, and can provide valuable feedback for future engagements of a similar nature in
this country as well as in other country situations. The findings and lessons from this
assessment will also be an important input to the forthcoming IEG evaluation of the
World Bank Group’s Support for Electricity Access.

IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project Appraisal
Documents, Implementation Completion and Results Report, legal agreements, project
files and archives, as well as other relevant reports, documents, memoranda and working
papers. An IEG field mission visited Sri Lanka during March 2014. Discussions were
held with Bank staff in Washington, DC and in Colombo, and government and other
                                           viii


officials in Colombo and other locations in the country. The mission discussed the
project’s experience and the effectiveness of Bank assistance with other stakeholders
including the project developers, commercial banks, think tanks, independent consultants,
citizens, and the Asian Development Bank. Site visits were undertaken in locations with
mini-hydro, community-based micro hydro systems, Solar Home Systems (SHS) in the
Ratnapura region.

The mission expresses its appreciation of the generous time and attention given by the
Borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons met by the mission is in Annex D.

Following IEG practice, copies of the draft report were sent to government officials and
implementing agencies, and no comments were received.
                                            ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report assesses the development effectiveness of
Sri Lanka’s Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development (RERED) project. The
project sought to (i) improve the quality of rural life by utilizing off-grid renewable
energy technologies to provide energy services to remote communities; and (ii) promote
private sector power generation from renewable energy resources for the main grid. The
project also sought to reduce atmospheric carbon emission by removing barriers and
reducing implementation costs for renewable energy and improving energy efficiency.

Project performance and ratings

The RERED project helped catalyze and scale up grid-connected and off-grid renewable
energy with private sector participation. The project built upon the foundation laid by the
Bank’s previous Energy Services Delivery project (1997-2003) for Sri Lanka. The
project also benefited from the Bank’s experience with large renewable energy and
energy efficiency projects in Africa and Asia.

The Overall Development Outcome of the project is rated satisfactory due to the
improvements in social and economic welfare in rural areas through increased electricity
access, and from increased private sector activity in renewable energy; as well as the
substantial efficiency with which the project was implemented. Risk to development
outcome is rated low as there is significant on-going private sector activity in renewable
energy; and continued use of the majority of solar home systems installed under the
project, even alongside newly acquired grid-based electricity. Bank performance is rated
satisfactory based on generally good quality at entry and quick adaptation to changing
project, market, and country circumstances. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory
due to steady commitment to the project objectives, and sound project implementation.

Lessons

Local participation and involvement, suitably incentivized, is crucial to promoting
distributed power generation activities. Active local participation drove the momentum
and successful implementation of the 68 mini hydro projects and the 173 community-
based micro hydro projects supported by the project. The participation came in the form
of local political support and the newly-formed village level electricity consumer
societies, which were incentivized by opportunities for selling a part of the generation to
the grid through ‘net metering’.

Involving the private sector effectively in a decentralized developmental effort
requires flexibility in implementation arrangements and space for adapting to
market conditions. In spite of past lessons informing the design of the project, almost all
major aspects – financing and disbursement parameters, procurement policies and
approach, SHS business model – had to undergo modifications to keep up the pace of
implementation. Without such adjustments, the project would likely have stalled /failed.

An appropriate feed-in-tariffs policy and its consistent and transparent application
are crucial to spur growth of small scale and non-conventional renewable energy
                                              x


generation. The low transaction costs enabled by attractive feed-in-tariffs crowded in
project developers and investors, as well as commercial/investment banks to develop and
invest in a variety of distributed generation projects. Market confidence was enhanced by
consistent and transparent application of the policy by the regulator / government.

Investments in off-grid electrification could be underutilized or even abandoned in
the event of a faster than expected arrival of the electricity grid. To mitigate this,
the expansion of the grid should be coordinated with off-grid investments, and,
where warranted, the off-grid facilities should be made grid-compatible to ensure
their continued utility. In Sri Lanka, as the electricity grid expanded faster than
expected, the decreasing necessity and relevance of off-grid electrification was not
foreseen early enough, resulting in some off-grid facilities falling into disuse or neglect.
This experience points to the need for planning ahead for a coordinated access rollout,
and making policy and technical provision for making the off-grid facilities grid-
compatible and economically viable.




                                                              Caroline Heider
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Evaluation
                                                           1


1. Background and Context

1.1      Sri Lanka has become a lower middle-income country, with GDP per capita
reaching US$3,194 in 2013, putting the country ahead of others in the South Asia region
in this respect. The country is shifting from a predominantly rural-based economy to an
urban economy oriented around manufacturing and services. Currently, services account
for 59 percent of the economy, followed by manufacturing at 30 percent and agriculture
at 11 percent. Growth in Sri Lanka has been inclusive, with poverty rates declining
dramatically to 9 percent in 2010 from 22 percent in 2002. Moreover, inequality in per
capita consumption expenditure has declined as reflected by a drop in the Gini
coefficient 1 from 0.40 to 0.36 between 2002 and 2010. Sri Lanka notably outperforms the
South Asia average on progress towards meeting the Millennium Development Goals.
While South Asia as a whole is on track or is an early achiever for only nine indicators,
Sri Lanka manages this for 15 of the 22 Millennium Development Goal indicators. (WDI
2013)

1.2      The end of the civil war in 2009 and a well-educated workforce are expected to
facilitate Sri Lanka’s economic growth in the coming years. The Government’s vision for
future development, as presented in its 2010 ‘Mahinda Chintanaya’ – Vision for the
Future, has targeted GDP per capita of above US$4,000 by 2016 through sustained real
growth of over 8 percent per annum. While economic activity has been mostly private
sector driven through strong private consumption and investment, public investment has
contributed through large infrastructure projects, including post war reconstruction efforts
in the Northern and Eastern provinces. The economy’s growth is expected to drive up
demand for energy, especially electricity. Energy demand in the industry sector is
expected to grow at 3.0 percent through 2035 and electricity demand in particular may
see an even higher rate of increase at 5.5 percent per year (ADB 2013), driven also by
increasing consumption by households.

POWER SECTOR

1.3     In 2002, nearly 60 percent of the then 19 million population of Sri Lanka had
access to electricity and the levels of access varied significantly among regions of the
country. The Western Province had about 80 percent access to electricity while other
Provinces (e.g. Uva) had less than 30 percent. 2
1.4     Recognizing the importance of electrification to the expansion of the economy
and for the country’s overall development agenda, the Government set a target of 75
percent electrification island-wide by the year 2007, which was achieved with a year’s
delay in 2008. By end-2012, the access rate had reached 94 percent of households in the
country through aggressive grid expansion. The Government plans to provide access to
the remaining unconnected population within the next couple of years to reach universal


1
 Gini coefficient measures the degree of inequality in the distribution income in a country. The more nearly equal a
country's income distribution, the lower its Gini index
2
    Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Power and Energy.
                                                                                                    2


access status. About 40,000 households in remote areas are identified for off-grid options,
including solar, mini-/micro-hydropower.

                                    Figure 2 Rate of electrification in Sri Lanka (1976-2012)
                                          100
                                          90
             Households electrified (%)   80
                                          70
                                          60
                                          50
                                          40
                                          30
                                          20
                                          10
                                            0
                                                1976
                                                       1978
                                                              1980
                                                                     1982
                                                                            1984
                                                                                   1986
                                                                                          1988
                                                                                                 1990
                                                                                                        1992
                                                                                                               1994
                                                                                                                      1996
                                                                                                                             1998
                                                                                                                                    2000
                                                                                                                                           2002
                                                                                                                                                  2004
                                                                                                                                                         2006
                                                                                                                                                                2008
                                                                                                                                                                       2010
                                                                                                                                                                              2012
                                                                                                           Year

          Source: Ceylon Electricity Board

Institutional Structure

1.5      The Power sector is overseen by the Ministry of Power and Energy (MPE), which
is also responsible for policy making. The Ministry of Power and Energy sets policy
goals, targets and broad strategies periodically, including the institutional responsibilities
for achieving the same. The Sustainable Energy Authority (SEA) was established in 2007
under the Ministry of Power and Energy to plan, promote, facilitate and coordinate the
development of non-conventional renewable energy (NCRE, e.g. solar, wind, biomass,
mini- and micro-hydro). In 2013, the policy and oversight responsibilities for renewable
energy were transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Renewable Energy (MERE);
the Sustainable Energy Authority also moved under the MERE.

1.6     The power sector is regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
(PUCSL). The PUCSL was set up in 2002 under an Act to regulate infrastructure sectors;
currently electricity, water and petroleum industries are under the purview and
responsibilities of PUCSL. In the power sector, PUCSL has since gradually developed
capacity to carry out its responsibilities covering several aspects, namely, consumer
protection, tariff setting, dispute resolution, licensing, performance standards, grid code,
etc. The PUCSL also set feed-in-tariffs for non-conventional renewable energy, approved
standard power purchase agreements and net-metering regulations. These functions are
typical and represent the core of regulations for a sector.

1.7     The electricity supply is dominated by the Ceylon Electricity Board, which is a
vertically integrated utility responsible for generation, transmission and distribution. The
Ceylon Electricity Board is functionally organized into separate generation, transmission
and several distribution entities within its corporate structure, which adopt power sales
agreements for entity level activity and performance tracking. Among the distribution
entities, Ceylon Electricity Board also owns majority shares in the Lanka Electricity
                                            3


Company (LECO), which is a private limited company established in 1983 to carryout
retail sales to certain industry customers and large domestic customers. Lanka Electricity
Company distributes about 10% of Ceylon Electricity Board’s total sales. In the
generation, there are a number of independent power producers (IPPs) who supply to the
Ceylon Electricity Board. The Energy Policy of 2008 contemplated unbundling of the
Ceylon Electricity Board into separate generation, transmission and several distribution
companies and stops short of introducing competition in the electricity market. The
schematic of the current industry structure is shown in Figure 2 below.

          Figure 2. Structure of the Electricity Industry in Sri Lanka




  Source: PUCSL Annual Report, 2012


Demand-Supply Balance

1.8    Sri Lanka is the only country in the region to have installed adequate generation
capacity to meet demand. The evolution of demand and supply capacity over the 2000-
2012 is summarized in Table 1 below for select years.
                                                         4


                 Table 1: Evolution of Installed Capacity and Peak Demand (2000-12)
                                                2000         2005     2010     2011     2012
     Installed Capacity (MW)
     Major Hydro                                 1,137        1,207    1,207    1,207    1,357
     Thermal                                       685        1,115    1,389    1,689    1,695
     NCRE                                           16           89      221      244      315
     Total (MW)                                  1,838        2,411    2,818    3,141    3,368
     Maximum Demand (MW)                                      1,748    1,955    2,163    2,146
     Gross Generation (GWh):
     Major Hydro                                 2,813        3,222    4,988    4,018    2,727
     Thermal                                     3,512        5,339    5,063    6,896    8,416
     NCRE                                           47          282      731      725      735
     Total (GWh)                                 6,372        8,844   10,738   11,628   11,879
     Sales (GWh)                                 5,443        7,253    9,209    9,990   10,407
     System losses (%)                          14.6%        17.2%      14.2   14.1%    12.4%
     Ave. Revenue (LKR/kWh)                       4.85         7.99    13.10    13.42    15.73
     Ave. Revenue (US cents/kWh)                    na         7.83    11.79    11.78    12.27
    Source: SEA Statistics (2012)

1.9     Sri Lanka’s power supply is heavily reliant on thermal power plants, mostly oil-
based. The share of oil-fired power gradually increased from 1995 and quickly reached
54.2 percent in 2000, and has since stayed around 50 percent. 3 Most of the country’s
hydropower resources have already been developed. The country has no domestic
production of coal, crude oil, or natural gas, and as a result all the fossil fuel demand is
met through imports. The high reliance on oil-fired power, together with growing
international oil prices, has pushed up the cost of electricity generation, whereas the tariff
adjustments, though aggressive, lagged the levels required for full-cost recovery. For
example, in 2011 and 2012, the average revenue / tariff levels were approximately LKR
2.20/kWh below the level that were necessary for the Ceylon Electricity Board to avoid
operating losses 4. The April-2013 tariff adjustment expected to result in average tariff of
LKR 17.73 to 18.60/kWh 5, and hence the 2013 financial outcome for the Ceylon
Electricity Board and the sector is expected to be positive.

1.10 In parallel with tariff adjustments, and in response to rising power generation
costs, the Government supported the construction and operation of two coal-fired power
stations with a total capacity of 1,400 MW, of which 300 MW in the first phase of the
Norochcholai coal-fired power plant was already commissioned in 2011; an additional
600 MW of capacity is under construction. Since a large part of the cost is attributed to
oil-based generation to meet peak power demand, base load coal power plants are
unlikely to lower the overall supply costs significantly, whereas non-conventional
renewable energy plants should be able to replace the oil-based peak load power plants,
thereby helping lower the costs of supply (see Figure 3 below). On the tariffs side, the
average level for 2013 is estimated to exceed US cents 14.0/kWh, the highest in South

3
    International Energy Agency Statistics; IEA.org
4
    Author’s estimate using CEB operating statements
5
    Based on CEB and PUSLK documents
                                            5


Asia. Increasing further to cover higher fuel costs would likely be difficult for socio-
political reasons and Sri Lanka has opportunities to explore and realize cost reduction in
electricity supply. Therefore, the growth and diversification of sources of electric power
generation that also lower average cost of supply is an urgent issue for Sri Lanka’s power
sector.

       Figure 3: Cost of Power Generation (LKR/kWh) from Various Power Plants




      Source: PUCSL

Reliability and Quality of Supply

1.11 Sri Lanka’s power system losses (see Table 1 above) indicate an improving trend
and the level of losses at about 12.4% in 2012 is not unusually high for a rapidly growing
network in developing countries, but could be further improved. According to Enterprise
Survey (2011), the number of electrical outages in a typical month stood at 4.1 (compared
to 18 for South Asia) and the duration of a typical electrical outage was 1.1 hours
(compared to 1.2 in South Asia). This is also corroborated by a survey by World
                                                           6


Economic Forum 6 which showed consistent improvement in quality of electricity supply
from 2006 through 2013. The index 7 was at 3.8 in 2006 and improved to 5.0 by 2012.

World Bank Group support for Sri Lanka’s electricity sector

1.12 The World Bank has played a significant role in supporting the electricity sector
in Sri Lanka over the past two decades providing nearly US$300 million for investment,
policy reform and technical assistance. The Energy Services Delivery project (1997-
2003) financed by the World Bank and Global Environment Facility (GEF) demonstrated
that off-grid systems – such as solar home systems (SHS) and community-level
independent grids – were a viable option to serve the population living in remote rural
communities where the grid had not reached. It also demonstrated that mini-hydro and
other renewable energy technologies such as wind and biomass had potential to
contribute to the energy mix in the grid and could add diversity to electricity generation.
As renewable energy technologies use indigenous resources, this would lead to a
reduction in the import of fossil fuels for power generation. The Energy Services
Delivery project had also proven to be a catalyst for engaging the private sector to invest
in renewable energy development.

1.13 IFC has contributed through a program called PADGO or Portfolio Approach to
Distributed Generation Opportunity. The IFC supported an innovative risk sharing
facility with two commercial banks, in combination with advisory services, in supporting
small hydro and wind power projects with total installed generation capacity of 65.4MW
thus far, enabling 72,000 MT GHG emissions reduction yearly. IFC has also provided
direct financing for wind power generation.

1.14 Building upon the earlier Energy Services Delivery project, the RERED project
helped scale-up renewable energy with participation of private sector investors and
financing in a significant way. Across the stakeholders group, the RERED project
remains the pioneer in establishing the framework for private sector led renewable energy
development in Sri Lanka, institution and capacity building, and as a catalyst for critical
policy development in the sector. Deepening the liquidity in the financial sector for much
longer-term financing that is more suitable for financing utility scale renewable energy
projects is a pressing need in Sri Lanka. Such financing would not only lower the
annuitized tariffs, but also help Sri Lankan project developers to compete with
international bidders for such types of power plants, e.g. large solar and wind farms being
prepared.

1.15 In the following sections, the RERED project is assessed, followed by lessons
drawn from the overall project experience.



6
  World Economic Forum (WEF): The Global Competitiveness Index data platform. Available at
http://www.weforum.org/issues/competitiveness-0/gci2012-data-platform/
7
  The index measured the response to: “How would you assess the quality of electricity supply in your country (lack
interruptions and lack of voltage fluctuations)?”[1=insufficient and suffers frequent interruptions; 7=sufficient and
reliable].
                                                          7


2. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
(RERED) project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES

2.1     According to the Project Credit Agreement (June 12, 2002), the project
development objectives were to (i) improve the quality of rural life by utilizing off-grid
renewable energy technologies to provide energy services to remote communities; and
(ii) promote private sector power generation from renewable energy resources for the
main grid.

2.2     The global environment objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document
was to reduce atmospheric carbon emission by removing barriers and reducing
implementation costs for renewable energy and removing barriers to energy efficiency.
There is no statement of the global environment objective either in the Project Credit
Agreement or the GEF Project Agreement 8 documents.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

2.3     Relevance of the project development objectives is rated High. The objectives of
the project were highly relevant to Sri Lanka’s priorities, the Bank’s partnership strategy,
and global energy and climate concerns, both at the time of project appraisal and project
completion.

2.4     The grid-connected renewable energy development under the project is in line
with the Government’s October 2006’ National Energy Policy and Strategies of Sri
Lanka’ 9 which sought to: (i) provide basic energy needs; (ii) improve energy security;
and (iii) use indigenous resources for these purposes. It is also consistent with the
Government’s ‘Mahinda Chinthanaya – Vision for the Future’ which commits to
increasing generation from renewable energy (excluding large hydro) to 20 percent of
total generation by 2020 corresponding to about 4,000 GWh/year (or approximately 1300
MW in installed capacity). The off-grid effort under the project remains highly relevant
to the Government’s priorities: to achieve a 100 percent electrification goal, the
Government has been investing significantly in network expansion, including off-grid
means to electrify roughly 40,000 customers who are “beyond the last mile,” and adding
new generation capacity.

2.5     While the foundations had been laid for sustainable growth of the renewable
energy industry in Sri Lanka – to which the Bank‘s earlier Energy Services Delivery
project had contributed significantly – critical barriers still needed to be addressed to
maintain the momentum: the relatively small size of the market; lack of a level-playing

8
 The GEF Project Agreement refers to the “the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement’, but there is no statement to be found there.
9
    Government of Sri Lanka: Gazette Notification No. 1553/10 – June 10, 2008
                                             8


field for private sector participants; limited access to long term financing with domestic
fund mobilization being mainly short term; integrating renewable energy in the country’s
overall electrification strategy; and establishing a sustainable and transparent basis for
subsidies for rural electrification.

2.6     The project continues to be relevant to the latest Country Partnership Strategy
(FY2013-16) that supports sustained private and public investment; and improving living
and standards and social inclusion. The project was also consistent with the World
Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (FY97-99) which included promotion of sustainable
private-sector led growth; increasing efficiency in delivery of infrastructure, especially in
rural areas; preserving the environment; and working closely with communities and non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to generate development solutions. The project
objectives were also aligned with the GEF Operational Program 6 which covers
promoting renewable energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs.
The development of grid-connected renewables responds to the 2009 Country Assistance
Strategy goals of improving infrastructure provision, improving the business environment
for stronger entrepreneurship and knowledge-based economy, and improving economic
opportunities in North and East of the country.

DESIGN

2.7   The project financed investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency and
demand side management as well as technical assistance to support capacity building and
implementation, and M&E surveys.

Component 1. Grid-Connected Renewable Energy Power Generation (At appraisal:
US$150.3 million; At completion: US$204.9 million): Continuation of refinancing
support for mini-hydro projects provided under the preceding Energy Services Delivery
Project, and support for two other commercially available renewable energy sources -
wind and biomass, to result in an increase of nearly 85 MW of grid-connected small-scale
renewable energy capacity.

       •   Mini Hydro Projects: In addition to a pipeline of eight projects, totaling 39
           MW, in an advanced stage of development, an additional 20-25 MW.
       •   Wind Projects: Commercialization and up-scaling of wind development,
           including exploring the possibility of off-shore development. Technical
           assistance would be provided for business development, feasibility studies,
           and off-shore resource assessment.
       •   Biomass: Support the marketing of viable grid-connected biomass projects.
           Focus initially on small-scale co-generation/gasification projects in the
           coconut and tea-industry and on larger scale projects with potential biomass
           plantations. Technical assistance for business development, feasibility studies,
           and regional trade shows, as well as longer term financing for developers
           through the Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs). Additional support for
           pilot biomass gasification investments was to be determined and implemented
           during the life of the project. Subprojects anticipated were one 8 MW project
           (coconut-based) and about 4-5 smaller biomass generators in the range of 1-2
           MW based on wood waste (from saw mills) and/or new plantations.
                                             9


Component 2. Solar PV Investments (At appraisal: US$63.7 million; At completion:
US$43.7 million): Credit and grant support for solar PV investments for household,
commercial, and institutional use to enable the market to become fully commercial. In
particular, the Project's proposed refinance, grant, and technical assistance support would
seek to solidify the existing middle-range solar home system market and expand service
to other applications such as: (i) smaller systems accessible to poor households; and (ii)
community applications for health clinics, schools, street lighting, etc. Further capacity
building would be provided in respect of micro-finance institutions and other household
financing organizations serving limited communities to expand credit access. These
measures would enable Sri Lanka to achieve the indicated target of 85,000 solar systems.

Component 3. Independent Grid Systems (At appraisal: US$5.3 million; At
completion: US$2.6 million): Support further commercialization of village hydro and
other community-based independent grid systems through refinancing and grant support
for investments and project preparation support. Additionally, technical assistance would
address such issues as daytime electricity use for income generation activities and
mechanisms for disposal of assets once an area served by an independent grid is
connected to the national system (stranded assets). The status of independent grids within
the sector reform agenda would also be emphasized in the broader sector technical
assistance. The indicative target was access for 15,000 new households and enterprises
through independent grids - village hydro projects, as well as projects based on biomass
and other technologies, where feasible.

Component 4. Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management (DSM) (At
appraisal: US$2.0 million; At completion: US$0.3 million): Provide TA and limited
credit support for further private sector development for provision of energy efficiency
services, including a framework for integrating sustainable implementation of such
programs into sector reforms. It was envisioned that responsibility for energy
efficiency/demand-side management (DSM)-related policy and regulatory issues, as well
as implementation of public-policy type DSM programs would rest with the Government,
regulator, or utility, while private sector enterprises such as Energy Service Companies
(ESCOs) would implement commercially viable energy efficiency projects.

Component 5. Cross-sectoral Energy Applications (At appraisal: US$4.9 million; At
completion: US$0.04 million): Provide rural enterprises credit support for larger systems.
Provide TA to service institutions for the development of energy, and standardized
energy packages to create awareness and to integrate energy provision into improved
service delivery. In addition, co-financing support would be provided for investments in
selected areas. Commercial/institutional support would include TA aimed at
mainstreaming productive applications in off-grid systems. The project sought to connect
at least 1,000 institutional and commercial systems, spurring interventions that are
critically important in restoring economic development in the country's northern and
eastern areas.

Component 6. Technical Assistance (At appraisal: US$5.7 million; At completion:
US$2.3 million): In addition to the component-specific assistance described above,
technical assistance under the Project was projected for the following activities: project
administration/ promotion; subproject promotion/development support; technology/
                                                        10


market introduction/ promotion/capacity building related to renewable energy and energy
efficiency; cross-sectoral energy applications; sustainability; and monitoring and
evaluation.

2.8    Additional financing: Following a mid-term review in 2005, which noted an
increase in demand for independent power projects, an additional financing of US$40
million was approved by IDA in 2007.

2.9     Project Restructuring: The first restructuring (level 2, implying that project
objectives were not changed), which was carried out on October 18, 2010, revised the
end-of-project target for component 2 (‘off-grid renewables) from 161,000 households,
small and medium enterprises and public institutions to 113,500 as recommended by the
Ministry of Power and Energy. The Bank considered the reduced target was appropriate
given the faster than anticipated pace of grid expansion, which reduced the demand for
off-grid renewable solutions. A second restructuring (level 2; June 16, 2011) extended
the closing date by 6 months. This was necessary to enable ongoing investments to be
completed and to make up for the delay in effectiveness of the Additional Financing
credit.

Relevance of Design

2.10 Relevance of project design is rated Substantial. The Project had two distinct
objectives, the first to improve the quality of life in rural areas through provision of off-
grid electricity, and the other to augment generation capacity for the grid through
promoting private sector involvement in renewable energy resources for the main grid.
Both the objectives were united by the focus on renewable energy, and on augmenting
the available generation capacity in the country. The global development objective of
decreasing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions derived from the use of renewable energy
to displace fossil fuels.

2.11 In tracing the results chain, provision of off-grid rural electrification was an
appropriate choice based on the assessment – at appraisal – of the speed at which the grid
was expanding to rural areas. The provision of off-grid electricity would give a jump-
start to the rural areas distant from the grid, to experience the expected social and
economic benefits from rural electrification. In retrospect, the pace of grid expansion
turned out to be much faster than anticipated due to greatly increased emphasis on grid
expansion by the Ceylon Electricity Board with the support of Government 10 during the
project implementation period.

2.12 Given the limited options for expanding generation capacity (Sri Lanka has low
indigenous fossil fuel resources and has exploited most of its large hydro potential) the
choice or pursuing new renewable sources (Mini-hydro, Solar, Wind, Biomass) to feed
the grid was appropriate, as these would help replace higher cost liquid fuel based power
plants. Also, because of the distributed nature of such resources, the potential for local
development and savings in GHG emissions was significant.

10
   The AU pointed out that national integration was an important goal pursued by the Government, which also helped
faster grid expansion. e.g. during 2008-12, the access increased by nearly 20% (from 75% to 94% of households)
                                            11


2.13 The inclusion of energy efficiency as a small component was expected to help
consumers through reduced consumption and bills, and the utility by rationalizing load
management and supply. In retrospect, this component did not fit into the overall design
and objective, although a more broad-based intervention would still be necessary to
effectively address the issues, institutions and processes for orienting consumer behavior
towards energy efficiency, which is also borne out from experience with other Bank
projects.

Implementation
Planned vs. Actual Costs

2.14 The project cost at completion was US$254 million, about 10 percent higher than
the planned US$232 million. The increase resulted from revised output targets during
implementation, and also due to exchange rate variations. Almost all of the additional
financing of US$40 million was provided to the grid-connected renewable generation and
solar PV components. The two components accounted for about 97.5% of total
expenditures. The grid connected hydro and wind power investments incurred about 36%
more total costs and corresponding allocation than was envisaged at appraisal.

2.15 The independent grid systems component was relatively small in terms of
expenditures (approximately 1 percent). The expenditures under the remaining
components were far lower than estimates. The component on cross-sectoral energy
applications was not implemented as the greater than expected grid expansion during the
project implementation period made these activities either less useful or unnecessary.

Implementation Experience

2.16 The project was approved on June 20, 2002 and became effective as scheduled on
October 7, 2002. The project was implemented through an Administrative Unit (AU)
located in the DFCC Bank, a commercial entity, which continued the role that it had
played under the prior Bank’s Energy Services Delivery project. The project was
ultimately extended by three and a half years – for reasons explained in the following
paras – and closed on December 31, 2011.

2.17 A mid-term review was carried out in September 2005, which noted that the grid-
connected renewable energy effort (component 1) was behind schedule, and that the
independent grid systems (component 3) were facing constraints. The delays related to
dealing with sub-stations that had reached their maximum capacities, obtaining required
approvals from the Central Environmental Authority and other agencies, and acquiring
land. The mid-term review made recommendations to overcome these constraints, which
required the cooperation of the Ceylon Electricity Board and Central Environmental
Authority.

Financing terms and procurement issues

2.18 Following remedial actions through the mid-term review, the Participating Credit
Institutions encountered problems with refinancing subprojects. As per the participation
agreements, a Participating Credit Institution to which refinance had been committed by
                                                         12


the Administrative Unit or AU located in the DFCC Bank, (which was the implementing
agency for the project) would face cancelation of the refinance if there was no offtake for
12 months. This long interval increased the prospect of other needy Participating Credit
Institutions being blocked from refinance, and leaving them little time to apply after
unused funds was released. To address this issue, the Bank and the AU agreed in 2008 to
allow refinancing requests on a first-come first-serve basis until the available funds were
exhausted. This modified approach resulted in an increase in disbursements and ensured
that the IDA Credit would be fully disbursed by the closing date of the project or during
the grace period.

2.19 Subsequently, the Participating Credit Institutions found that the interest rate
stipulated by the project was not in line with prevailing market interest rates. The original
IDA Credit and GEF grant agreement stipulated an interest rate to Participating Credit
Institutions that was based on a six-month average of the Average Weighted Deposit Rate
(AWDR). After additional financing was approved, this was changed to a blend of
AWDR and the Average Weighted Fixed Deposit Rate (AWFDR), with the intention of
bringing the interest rates closer to market rates. However, market interest rates began to
rise soon after, putting upward pressure on the financing terms for renewable energy
project loans, which resulted in a considerable decline in loan applications 11. Even after
market rates began to decline rapidly in the second half of 2009, the refinance was slow
to adjust because it was adjusted only every six months. To address this matter, the Bank
agreed to speed up this adjustment to three month intervals. This helped to improve the
flow of loan applications and financing of sub-projects increased.

2.20 Many project sponsors and Participating Credit Institutions determined that the
requirement to use International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures for small value
projects resulted in delays and sometimes in cost overruns. The thresholds set in 1997
under the previous Energy Services Delivery project were carried over to this project
without taking into account the sustainable price increases since then. Hence, the
thresholds for the procurement of goods, works, and turnkey contracts was increased in
mid-2009 from US$ 2 million, 3 million and 5 million respectively to US$ 6 million, 9
million and 15 million, above which ICB would apply. Both Participating Credit
Institutions and project sponsors met by the mission underscored this point and also
expressed their appreciation of the Bank’s responsiveness in this regard.

Impact of grid expansion on solar PV component

2.21 Under component 2, sales of SHS fell from 2,000 per month in 2005 to 800 per
month in 2008. The shrinking of the market was caused by a rapid expansion of the grid
during project implementation and by a reduction or cessation of SHS loans from
financial institutions as the rate of defaults on loans began to rise sharply. Customers
who had purchased SHSs stopped payments when they were connected to the grid, which
offered functionally superior energy for their applications and needs. The Participating
Credit Institutions could not resell or salvage the repossessed SHSs effectively.
Responses to resuscitate this segment such as importing of more cost-effective systems,

11
  Commercial Banks met by the mission indicated that project cash flows were sensitive to interest rates in many
cases.
                                                          13


and more radical changes to business model by shifting to cash sales and modification of
the sales services networks were unsuccessful. By 2009, the AU and the Bank realized
that the targets for solar PV component sales would not materialize, and finally in late
2010 the target for the off-grid renewables component was reduced from 161,000
households, enterprises and institutions to 113,500. Ultimately the number of solar PV
vendors fell from 14 to 2 12 due to market forces. The current vendors are supplying SHS
systems on a cash basis or providing credit on their own to consumers.

Capacity issues with certain project developers

2.22 Under the component for Independent Grid Systems (component 3) there were
issues related to the quality and technical capacity of some of the village hydro
developers and equipment suppliers. Project preparation grants were made available for
village hydro projects, to be released in instalments on reaching agreed milestones. The
Participating Credit Institutions found that many such grants made initially were not
resulting in timely project preparation activities and/or viable projects. This matter was
addressed through the introduction of a pre-qualification process for all village hydro
developers and suppliers, mandatory testing of equipment prior to installation, and
stricter oversight. This led to better utilization of grant funds, fewer number of
incomplete projects and overall, a more efficient implementation of the village hydro
component, as noted by the AU.

Poor uptake of energy efficiency and cross-sectoral energy applications

2.23 There was little demand for Energy Efficiency and DSM (component 4) which
sought to support energy efficiency sub-projects and awareness campaigns. The main
reason for this was that the Environmental Friendly Solutions Fund (E-Friends) supported
by Japan International Cooperation Agency, offered similar support at better terms than
the Bank. The AU decided to focus its attention on the more significant components with
potentially larger impacts on the achievement of the project development objectives and
the global environmental objectives. However, the allocation to this component was
increased by US$0.5 million at the time of additional financing.

2.24 The cross-sectoral energy applications (Component 5) also had limited demand.
The grid was expanding rapidly and most rural public institutions such as schools and
hospitals were gaining access to grid electricity and, as such, a long term renewable
energy-based solution was not a priority. AU also did not push this component and
devoted its attention to the main (larger) components, namely 1 and 2. The allocation to
this component was unchanged at the time of additional financing.

Counterpart funding by Government

2.25 During project implementation, the Government requested that the percentage of
expenditures financed for the technical assistance categories of the IDA Credit and GEF
Grant be increased to 100 percent. This was due to the difficult fiscal situation at that

12
   One microfinance and guarantee company (Sarvodaya) and a solar company (Wisdom Solar) have been resilient and
indicated their resolve to capture the remaining off-grid market, especially in the northern region of the country. They
also indicated the prospects for expanding solar street lighting with municipalities.
                                             14


time which was further aggravated by the global economic crisis. At the height of the
military conflict, solar subsidy payments were delayed by the Government, resulting in
severe cash flow problems to SHS vendors. This often resulted in payment delays to
suppliers and reputational risks for the Bank. The increased financing facilitated the
implementation of a critical technical assessment of the power grid absorption capacity as
well as capacity building activities and other technical assistance geared towards scaling-
up investments in new renewable energy technologies such as wind and biomass. The
increase in expenditures was covered by a reallocation of non-utilized funds from other
categories.

Restructuring and additional financing

2.26 The Bank was generally responsive to the emerging implementation issues and
helped resolve them as noted above. The Bank also responded with additional financing
of US$40 million to scale up the components in demand. With an average gestation
period of about two years from inception to commissioning, the Bank also approved a
three-year extension to the closing date (up to June 30, 2011) to allow sufficient time for
the additional financing credit to be committed and disbursed.

2.27 A second project restructuring was carried out in June 2011 to extend the closing
date further by 6-months to December 31, 2011. This was partly to make up for the delay
in effectiveness of the Additional Financing credit, and generally to allow activities that
were under implementation to be completed and to ensure satisfactory closure of the
project.

2.28 Safeguards. The project was placed in Category B under the Bank’s
environmental and social safeguard policies. The proposed project was expected to yield
net positive environmental effects. The off-grid electrification sub-projects would reduce
use of kerosene and lead-acid automotive batteries. No significant negative impacts were
expected from the run-of-river village-hydro projects, as demonstrated by the 20 existing
village hydro projects. Because of their small size, the grid-connected mini-hydro sub-
projects were also unlikely to cause significant environmental damage. No resettlement
was envisioned because the project did not involve land acquisition with settlements.

2.29     IDA had required prior review of: (i) all biomass projects; (ii) mini-hydro
projects with a capacity of more than 5 MW; (iii) wind projects with a capacity of more
than 10 MW; (iv) all projects involving land acquisition and/or resettlement; and (v) the
first two environmental assessments of each Participating Credit Institution for mini
hydro, biomass and wind power projects. Mini-hydro subprojects would be reviewed by
the Central Environment Authority for compliance with environmental policies.
Participating credit institutions would ensure that project sponsors obtain GOSL and
IDA-mandated environmental clearances, where necessary.

2.30     Discussions with the project’s task team during the PPAR mission confirm that
the AU followed these procedures diligently. In addition, the AU contracted consultants
to conduct environmental and social assessments of every grid connected sub-project
before approval, and on a sample basis after commissioning, which also included site
visits. Based on these assessments, two projects were denied refinancing because of non-
                                             15


compliance with environmental safeguards. An environmental review for a Pilot Wind
Farm confirmed that it would have minimal environmental impacts, entailed no
relocation of local population and would be located more than one mile outside the
Bundala and Yala wildlife reserves. Overall, the task team reports that the project was in
compliance with the Bank’s environmental and social safeguards requirements.

2.31 The discussions with the Participating Credit Institutions indicated that the project
had enabled their institutions to develop knowledge, skills and approach to handling
safeguards issues in energy projects. One wind project sponsor felt that the paper work
involved due to specific requirements of World Bank over and above the government
regulations and requirements was excessive.

2.32 Financial Management. The AU had well-established procedures for approval
of disbursements of loan and grant resources and adequate financial management (FM)
staff with sufficient capacity to undertake those responsibilities. Participating credit
institutions were required to submit refinancing application packages comprising a
complete set of documents. The Refinance disbursements were made only after providing
proof that Participating Credit Institutions had already disbursed their loans to developers
and such funds were utilized for the stated purpose. Co-financing grants were disbursed
on submission of proof of installation. Other grant payments were generally based on
reaching specified verifiable milestones. Verification of installation of SHS was carried
out on a sample basis. The Task team reports that these verifications did not find any
indication of unjustified payment requests. The AU kept detailed records on all payments
made. To ensure adequate fiduciary controls, IDA reviewed: (i) the first two refinancing
requests, irrespective of size, submitted by each Participating Credit Institution; (ii)
refinancing applications above US$ 3.5 million; (iii) each Participating Credit
Institution’s first solar home system refinancing request; (iv) each Participating Credit
Institution’s first grid-connected hydro, wind and biomass refinancing request; and (v)
each Participating Credit Institution’s first village based hydro, wind and biomass
refinancing request. The task team confirmed that there were no qualified audits.

Achievement of the Objectives
OBJECTIVE 1: IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF RURAL LIFE BY UTILIZING OFF-GRID
RENEWABLE ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES TO PROVIDE ENERGY SERVICES TO REMOTE
COMMUNITIES. Rated Substantial.

Outputs

2.33 The original target formulated at appraisal was to provide 161,000 households,
rural small and medium enterprises and public institutions access to electricity services
through off-grid renewable energy schemes. In the following years, a greatly increased
emphasis on grid expansion by the Government resulted in an increase of grid connected
domestic customers from 2.82 million in 2004 to 3.96 million by 2010 – an increase of
1.14 million. Presently, grid electrification now serves 94 percent of households making
off-grid less relevant than originally anticipated at Project Appraisal. In response to these
developments, the target was reduced to 113,500 based on the forecast demand for off-
grid electrification. The final accounting for off-grid electrification showed that the
                                                       16


project had provided access to electricity to 110,575 households through the sales of SHS
while 6,220 households were electrified through independent grid systems, mainly village
hydro. In total the project provided 116,795 households access to electricity, which
exceeded the revised target by a small margin.

2.34 Of the 110,575 SHS sold to rural households an estimated 20,000 had to be
repossessed because households defaulted on their loans. In general, the Participating
Credit Institutions only repossessed the modules which were deemed as their only
collateral. The value of the repossessed modules was insufficient to recover the
outstanding balance. Further, a small number of SHS and village hydro systems are no
longer used because the households have since been connected to the electricity grid. On
the other hand, while several village systems have now been connected to the grid, under
a net-metering scheme similar to a Standardized Power Purchase Agreement but for
smaller systems, the off-grid village systems connected to the grid can now sell power to
the utility at an agreed tariff. This is a win-win situation for the village-communities who
have invested money and sweat equity into their off-grid systems as they can now benefit
from the reliability of the national grid, while continuing to earn revenues from the sale
of electricity generated by their village hydro schemes back to the utility at an agreed
tariff. Following the pilot scheme adopted by a village hydro (21 kW at Athuraliya
village in Ratnapura), net metering spurred the growth of distributed renewable energy
projects.

Outcomes

2.35 Feedback to the IEG mission from beneficiaries in the field confirms that access
to electricity for the first time – both from SHS and the grid – has had a transforming
effect on their lives. The more significant impacts on the quality of life appear to have
come from better lighting and use of television, even though newly electrified households
and small businesses activities have indicated little improvements in income.

2.36 The Bank team attempted to capture outcome data for the project during
implementation through surveying 1,500 households, small/medium enterprises and
public institutions targeted for electrification from the original IDA Credit (1,000) and
the Additional Financing (500). The results of the surveys are summarized in the
"Completion Report" which reports on achievements in the period September 2004 to
September 2008. 13

2.37 The surveys had found that even in small quantities, electricity consumption
brings about significant lifestyle changes in families, mainly by making home life more
convenient and housework easier. One finding from the surveys, which was confirmed by
this mission’s conversations with beneficiaries, is that while access to electricity does not
reduce the overall work load of women, it makes their work easier. Off-grid electricity is
also extensively used for watching television, leading to more awareness of the outside
world, in addition to providing entertainment. This is considered the next highest benefit
of electricity as it serves to bring remote rural communities closer to the outside world.

13
  Resources Development Consultants (Pvt) Ltd.: Monitoring and Evaluation of the Renewable Energy for Rural
Development Project. September 2004 - September 2008. Completion Report submitted to RERED AU.
                                              17


Further, the level of social interaction within households and communities increase with
electricity, which contributes in numerous ways to social capital development. Men spent
more time with the family (80 percent of the respondents in surveys) and reduced time
spent outside of the house including alcohol consumption in the evening (20 percent of
respondents).

2.38 One home owner conveyed that the lighting has given a feeling of safety for her
and her children. This point was also found in the survey when villagers reported that
they feel safer (60 – 87 percent of the respondents of different surveys) and an increase in
socio-cultural activities resulting from the presence of electricity at religious places in the
villages (80 percent of the respondents). The use of computers was also observed in a few
houses electrified by village hydro schemes.

2.39 Contrary to expectation, the availability of electricity did not stimulate the
development of new enterprises. However, it improved operation of existing enterprises.
According to reports from Participating Credit Institutions and consultants, access to
electricity improved economic activities of 742 (household) enterprises or 0.6% of total
number of electrified households. Economic activities that benefited from access to
electricity include grocery shops, bakeries, battery-charging stations, communication
centers, computer training centers, grinding/rice milling and cinnamon processing.

2.40 Not all rural households using off-grid schemes have benefitted from the
expansion of the national grid as approximately 40,000 households are expected to still
remain without access to the national grid (including some who are on small islands.)
This is in addition to thousands who are still using off-grid schemes or other means such
as kerosene for lighting today. However, for those who have benefitted from faster than
anticipated grid expansion this was a positive development as it provides a higher level of
services and is more affordable for households. Off-grid electricity supply provided
access to electricity several years before the arrival of the grid to their communities, and
for those households who have yet to receive grid power; the off-grid schemes are still
very much valued. On the whole, off-grid installations under the project have
demonstrated that SHS and/or independent mini grids are a viable option for rural areas
where the cost of grid extension would be prohibitive for the utility.

OBJECTIVE 2: PROMOTE PRIVATE SECTOR POWER GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE ENERGY
RESOURCES FOR THE MAIN GRID. RATED HIGH.



Outputs

2.41 The target for this objective was the installation of 135 MW of small-scale
renewable grid-connected power generation capacity (85 MW at appraisal and 50 MW
added under the Additional Financing). At completion, the project had supported the
installation of about 185.3 MW grid-connected renewable energy sub-projects. This
included 2 wind projects (19.8 MW total capacity), 1 biomass project (1 MW capacity)
and 68 mini hydro projects (164.5 MW of total capacity). All of these projects are
reported to be functioning with the exception of the lone biomass project which stopped
operations due to difficulties with fuel supply. All these projects were promoted by
                                            18


private sector developers, using loans provided by commercial banks participating in
RERED. The Participating Credit Institutions extended loans totaling US$ 122 million
(LKR 12.84 billion), which is on average 59.5% of total project cost. The total
investment was about US$ 205 million (LKR 21.55 billion).

2.42 As of end-2013, there were 146 non-conventional renewable energy projects
commissioned. The total installed capacity from those was 367.3 MW of which about
271 MW (~74%) were mini hydropower based. In addition, there is a pipeline of about
73 projects for which a Standardized Power Purchase Agreement has been signed
between private developers and the Ceylon Electricity Board, and are expected to add
about 246 MW when completed. The total energy generated during 2013 from non-
conventional renewable energy capacity was 1169 GWh, which is about 9.6% of total
generation. Please see Annex C for details.

Outcomes

2.43 Since the close of the project, investments in new projects have continued as
evidenced by the pipeline of projects mentioned in para 2.42. Developers have shown a
continued desire to undertake private investment in renewable energy generation even
after support from the project has ceased, since commercial banks continue to finance
these investments. Sources of funds include private equity, funds raised through stock
markets, foreign equity investors and support from a small IFC loan guarantee facility.
The Participating Credit Institutions and IFC indicated to the mission that the project had
helped create the momentum for non-conventional renewable energy projects in the
country and that there is now competition among banks and investors to invest in these
projects.

2.44 Feedback to the mission from government officials, Participating Credit
Institutions and developers suggests that the project was instrumental in developing a
vibrant renewable energy industry in Sri Lanka. Greater demand for support services is
noted, including project development, technical design, construction, equipment
manufacturing, and financing, though no specific data was available in this regard. The
project has contributed to the formation of several developer associations, including for
solar, wind, village hydro and small hydropower. The IEG mission met with select
developer associations that continue to be active today and play an important role in
representing their industry in government, regulatory and other consultations. The
collective feedback from government officials, Participating Credit Institutions and
developers supports the claim that Sri Lanka now has a viable renewable energy industry.
A significant number of developers, manufacturers, and financiers are venturing abroad
to undertake investments in renewable energy projects in other countries in Asia and
Africa. A few examples include: five Sri Lankan mini hydro developers are now active in
East Asia; Lanka Ventures, an equity financier, is investing in mini hydro projects in East
Africa; VS Hydro undertakes its own contracting and manufacturing of turbines in Sri
Lanka and has investments in Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya. An 18 MW plant in Uganda
uses three 6 MW turbines manufactured in Sri Lanka.

2.45 The AU and the Sustainable Energy Authority noted the value added from several
technical assistance initiatives under the project. The regulatory agency (Public Utilities
                                                          19


Commission of Sri Lanka) noted that the project had enabled a better understanding of
structuring Power Purchase Agreements. Across the stakeholder groups, the project is
credited to have enabled knowledge sharing through periodic consultative meetings,
which were reported to have helped many project sponsors and Participating Credit
Institutions to fine tune their activities and interventions. One independent consultant and
energy expert noted that this was effective because of the relatively higher level of skills
and absorption capacity among institutions in Sri Lanka.

2.46 As a result of increased renewable energy activity, rural communities have
benefitted from both temporary and long-term employment opportunities from
construction and operations of the sub-projects and overall improved infrastructure as
Government has undertaken construction of new roads and/or repair of existing ones to
facilitate the construction activities for some of these sub-projects. A number of villages
benefitted from piped water supply, construction of houses, school facilities, community
centers and improved facilities at places of worship. Developers carried out these
improvements mainly to create goodwill among the villagers, while some were done as
compensation payments to the villagers.


GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE

GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE: TO REDUCE ATMOSPHERIC CARBON EMISSION BY
REMOVING BARRIERS AND REDUCING IMPLEMENTATION COSTS FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY
AND REMOVING BARRIERS TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY.

2.47 The indicators for achieving the global environmental objective were: (i) avoiding
emissions of 1.25 million tons of CO2; and (ii) promotion of the adoption of renewable
energy by removing market barriers and reducing implementation cost.

2.48 The team’s estimates of CO2 avoidance are straightforward and credible.
Assuming an average carbon emission coefficient for Sri Lanka of 0.8 kgCO2/kWh 14, the
resulting avoided emissions of sub-projects commissioned to date is 1.84 million tons
CO2; surpassing the target of 1.25 million tons of CO2 by 47 percent (the quantifiable
indicator was not increased with the additional financing). By estimating the total
expected generation from all plants commissioned in 2012 or those expected to be
commissioned by year’s end, the volume of avoided CO2 emissions would be 2.15
million. The avoided emissions are calculated from the actual renewable electricity
production and conservative estimates for the total annual electricity generation over the
lifetime of the sub-projects. The resulting reduction in carbon emissions can also be
attributed to the off-grid schemes as well, though these are far smaller in volume than
emissions avoided from the grid-connected sub- projects. The coefficients used for
estimates of CO2 evidence at appraisal continue to be valid at present. Ongoing activity
in grid-connected renewables and off-grid renewables following project completion
continues to add proportionately to CO2 avoidance.

14
  This value is for marginal power plants which are diesel and fuel oil based, and can be displaced by the new
renewables financed under the project.
                                                              20


2.49 The design of the project also included an engagement on energy efficiency
through a small component; however, the limited resources allocated for energy
efficiency and demand-side management (DSM) (US$ 2 million equivalent or 0.9% of
the total financing) made a significant impact unlikely. Moreover, a low interest credit
line for energy efficiency extended by the Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) made RERED funds far less attractive. The project therefore did not result in any
direct CO2 reductions from the energy efficiency and DSM component.

2.50 The removal of market barriers is evident from the additional installed capacity of
grid-connected renewable energy, improved all-round sector capacity, and viable private
sector activity in this area as describe in the discussion under objective 2 above. In
contrast to the situation prior to the project there is now far greater familiarity and
willingness to lend by commercial banks for grid-connected renewable energy projects
and the Ceylon Electricity Board is far more oriented to purchasing electricity from grid-
connected renewable energy plants.

Efficiency
2.51 The efficiency of the project in meeting its objectives is rated Substantial. The
economic and financial analysis was based on representative stylized sub-projects from
the feasibility study at appraisal, compared with actual projects’ data at close. Under the
financial intermediary mode followed by this project, the verification of the financial
viability of the sub-projects within the feed-in tariff regime was the responsibility of the
lending commercial banks which also bore the full credit risk of the sub-projects.

2.52     Mini-hydropower plants. Grid-connected mini- and micro-hydropower plants
were the dominant investment in the “grid-tied” component. A mini hydro sub-project
was used as a representative project for the economic and financial analyses. Post
completion, the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was 46 percent for a
representative 2.5 MW mini hydro plant with an investment cost of US$1,445/kW, a
plant factor 15 of 38 percent and an avoided cost of US$0.252/kWh based on Short-Run
Marginal Cost (SRMC) of highest cost thermal plants offset by the mini hydro
generation. The economic analysis at Appraisal for a 1.5 MW mini hydro plant showed
an EIRR of 24 percent. The higher EIRR is attributed to the higher avoided cost even
though plant factor was lower and investment cost higher than at appraisal.

2.53 Solar Home Systems. Households using a SHS save on kerosene for lighting and
batteries and receive far superior and safer lighting services from electric lighting
compared to kerosene lighting. Based on a 40 Wp SHS for a representative analysis, the
ICR estimated the EIRR at 88 percent when consumer surplus (attributed to the far
superior electric lighting) is considered and 13 percent if consumer surplus is
disregarded. There was no EIRR calculated at appraisal for this component. However,
since about 20,000 SHSs were not used by beneficiaries (which is about 18% of all
SHSs), spreading the cost of these over the remainder of the SHSs should reduce the
EIRR.

15
     The ratio of the average power load of a plant to its rated capacity
                                             21


2.54 Village hydro plants. A village hydro plant saves kerosene for lighting and
batteries as well as providing far superior and safer electric lighting services compared to
kerosene lighting. Beyond meeting households’ basic electricity needs, they have the
potential to meet other electricity needs in the community such as ironing, water
pumping, and power for small enterprises. The EIRR of a representative sub-project was
calculated taking into account only savings due to avoided kerosene and battery use as
well as consumer surplus gained from using superior electric lighting. The EIRR for a
representative sub-project with a capacity of 8 kW and serving 30 households is 54
percent when consumer surplus is considered and 9 percent if consumer surplus was not
considered. In comparison, the EIRR of a typical village hydro sub-project was reported
as 12 percent at Appraisal.

2.55 The project cost increase of 10 percent (US$254 million vs. the original estimate
of US$232 million) is in line with the significant upward revision and achievement of
targets for grid-connected renewable energy, while noting the decrease in targets and
achievements for SHS. The time overrun of three and a half years on top of the originally
planned six and a half years implementation period was due to the increased targets and
achievements, and the adjustments that were appropriately made in response to
intervening political, financial and market conditions. As noted in the mid-term review,
there were also delays in activities relating to overloaded substations on the part of the
Ceylon Electricity Board and granting required approvals by the Sustainable Energy
Authority that also contributed to the delay. Taking all these factors into consideration,
efficiency is rated substantial.

Ratings
OUTCOMES

2.56 Overall project development outcome is rated Satisfactory. Relevance of the
project development objective is rated high because of Sri Lanka’ priority and the Bank’s
supportive strategy to contribute to rural well-being through improved provision of
electricity access and to reduce dependence on imported fossil fuels as a source of
electricity. Relevance of the project’s design is rated high because of its logical approach
of leveraging renewable energy sources for both off-grid and grid-connected provision of
electricity to improve access and therefore positively impact beneficiaries, especially in
rural areas, while displacing the use of fossil fuels. The Efficacy of the first objective of
improving the quality of rural life through off-grid renewable technologies is rated
substantial due to significant outcomes from the spread of SHS in unserved rural areas,
though this process was overtaken to some extent by the parallel advance of the
electricity grid. The second objective of promoting private sector power generation from
renewable energy resources is rated high from the higher greater than expected
achievements from various renewable energy sources. Efficiency of the project is rated
substantial (rather than high) mainly due to the avoidable causes that contributed to the
significant time overrun, even though the economic rate of returns are very favorable.
Overall Development Outcome of the project is rated satisfactory based on the ratings
for relevance, efficacy and efficiency.
                                             22


2.57 Global environment outcome. CO2 emission reductions were greater than
expected due the significant lowering of market barriers to renewable energy
development and the overall achievement of renewable energy under the project being
greater than originally planned.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

2.58 The risk to the improved quality of life from utilizing off-grid renewable energy
technologies to bring electricity to remote communities is considered low. Also, the risk
of communities no longer using the off-grid renewable energy technologies for reasons
other than the arrival of the grid is low. Once the users have experienced the benefits of
off-grid electrification they are seen to make considerable efforts to maintain this service.
In many cases, the off-grid options may be maintained as a back-up or to reduce the grid
electricity bill.

2.59 At Appraisal, the Governments’ rural electrification policy envisaged that 20
percent of the population would remain reliant on off-grid electricity supply. At present,
the Government expects to achieve full electrification by 2016, of which a relatively low
number of 40,000 households would have to be served by off-grid means. The
Government also targets a share in generation capacity for non-conventional renewable
of 15 percent by 2015 and 20 percent by 2020. By 2013, the generation from non-
conventional renewable energy sources had reached about 9.6 percent. Apart from the
numerical targets, further addition of non-conventional renewable energy is critical for
managing the peak load demand as well as replacing expensive oil-based power plants,
thereby lowering the average costs of generation. Hence the sustainability of the project’s
outputs and outcomes are very important to the sector’s developmental priorities.

Role and support of Ceylon Electricity Board

2.60 Stakeholders expressed mixed views to the mission about the Ceylon Electricity
Board’s active support for grid-connected renewable energy, mainly attributing this to a
lack of consensus among its key constituents and management. However, there are signs
that the Ceylon Electricity Board has emerged from its earlier reluctance towards grid-
connected renewable energy. For instance, the Ceylon Electricity Board has
acknowledged that power purchased from small renewable energy plants had saved the
utility LKR 2 billion in electricity generation costs in 2010 through reduced expenditure
on imported heavy fuel oil and other fossil fuels. Following the April 2013 tariff
adjustments, the Ceylon Electricity Board estimates show that its average selling price
could exceed the average purchase cost of energy from non-conventional renewable
energy. Ceylon Electricity Board’s projections indicate that non-conventional renewable
energy would be a viable option to pursue in supply cost reduction. Please see Annex C
for details. Project developers and the Ceylon Electricity Board both have a mutual
interest in maximizing renewable energy production, particularly to minimize use of
imported fossil fuel as the alternative for electricity generation.
                                             23


Continuing financing for NCRE projects

2.61 One major criterion for measuring the impact of this project is the continued
lending for renewable energy projects by commercial banks and the initial findings post
project completion are very encouraging. As noted (in para 2.42) 73 new projects are in
the pipeline and would add another 246 MW to non-conventional renewable energy
capacity in the country.

2.62 Small hydro development is now considered a commercially viable activity by
Participating Credit Institutions and developers. Sufficient technical expertise for this
purpose exists within the country. All this is borne out by the large number of mini hydro
projects in the pipeline. However, development of village hydro without the type of
support provided by this project is unlikely while the need is also declining due to rapid
grid expansion. Developers active in village hydro have moved to other areas and some
are now providing consultancy services in India and Africa.

2.63 Biomass generation, and to a lesser extent wind and solar power generation, are
still facing a number of barriers and support to overcome these barriers would be useful.
These barriers include technical (integration with grid issues), regulatory (feed-in-tariffs)
and financing (suitable terms) barriers. The Asian Development Bank is providing
technical assistance support in this regard, and indicated its readiness to follow with
financial support for investments.

2.64 The demand for SHS systems can be positively impacted by the net metering
regulations introduced by the regulator (Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka) that
allow individual SHS customers to offset their payments to the utility with electricity
generated from their SHS systems at the retail tariffs. A few of these schemes (limited to
42 kWp per facility) are now in operation as residential tariffs have recently been
increased to as much as LKR 50.4/kWh (including fuel adjustment surcharge for higher
consumption category; currently about US$0.38/kWh). As the Ceylon Electricity Board
and the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka continue to fine tune the net-metering
regulations, they need to ensure that the boost these have provided to the SHS industry is
sustained.

2.65 In respect of SHS, only two vendors are currently active out of the fourteen at the
peak of sales. Some of the technicians trained under the Energy Services Delivery and
the RERED projects are providing independent after sales services in their areas and the
remaining SHS vendors depend on their services to fulfill their obligations. One vendor
(Wisdom Solar) has shown resilience by marketing solar street lamps to municipalities,
and capturing business in some remote areas in the northern part of the country, and
indicated that their firm is well placed to implement the SHSs and off-grid solutions to
the 40,000 homes identified by the Ceylon Electricity Board.

Power plant operating risks

2.66 There is a risk that some of the grid-connected renewable energy sub-projects
might stop operating (mainly for projects where power purchase agreements will be
expiring and the tariff offered might be too low to sustain operations). For instance, a 1.8
                                                         24


MW mini hydropower plant 16 commissioned in 1989 was reported to have shut down
from being unable to meet operating costs due to low tariffs. The Public Utilities
Commission of Sri Lanka showed understanding in this situation and resolved this issue,
after considering the impact it could have on the whole non-conventional renewable
energy segment. The risk that the private sector ceases to seek and develop new projects
is considered low unless tariffs decline substantially to the point where the economics
become unviable. The Government has indicated its commitment to the participation of
the private sector in electricity generation, especially from renewable resources. These
projects are financially viable and commercial banks are continuing to lend, even without
refinancing.

Role and support of the Government

2.67 Sub-projects refinanced by the project would continue to comply with the
Government’s environmental requirements, including the required monitoring. Some
stakeholders from private sector and industry association however expressed reservations,
but also the desire that the Sustainable Energy Authority needs to step up its efforts to
meet the challenges, streamline bureaucratic requirements, and actually assist project
developers to realize their projects and also contribute to national priorities of promoting
non-conventional renewable energy. The Government’s further endorsement of non-
conventional renewable energy and support for its development should be sufficient
incentives for the Sustainable Energy Authority, though its ability to attract skills remains
an issue as market pay scales are far higher.

2.68 The activities supported by the project have transitioned from the AU to the
Sustainable Energy Authority which will provide continuity for facilitating investments
in the sector. Sustainable Energy Authority officials indicated to the mission that they
are now maintaining documentation from the project, which includes a wealth of
analysis, data and information on the subject of renewable energy and related initiatives
in the developing country context.

2.69 Based on the overall assessment of the key issues, the risk to sustainability of
overall project development outcome is rated Low.

BANK PERFORMANCE

2.70 The quality at entry for the project is rated Satisfactory. The design of this project
benefited from the Bank’s experience with the earlier Energy Services Delivery project –
which received a satisfactory outcome rating – as well as rural and renewable energy
projects in South and East Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. The guiding principles that
emerged from the Energy Services Delivery project and other Bank projects were: (i)
necessity of providing consumer choice; (ii) ensuring pricing which is cost-reflective;
(iii) overcoming high start-up costs; (iv) encouraging local participation, tapping into
private sector and civil society capabilities and potential; and (v) implementing sound
sector policies.


16
     Daily Mirror, Sri Lanka, March 13, 2014, page A16 “Private Hydropower Plant Closed Without Notice”
                                            25


2.71 Design features of the project that derived from the above lessons contributed to
effective project implementation, including: third-party administration of the credit and
grant facility and overall project management; involvement of industry associations and
advocacy groups in guiding industry growth and directions; the adoption of a
standardized power purchasing agreement and ensuring tariff certainty; a bankable legal
framework that assured availability of long term financing; and the importance of
participation and commitment of the entire community on off-grid village electrification
schemes for ensuring long term sustainability of these schemes, as well as adequate after
sales service.

2.72 In retrospect, the project design underestimated the pace at which the electricity
grid would expand in the country. At the project preparation stage, the Bank in
consultation with the Ceylon Electricity Board, estimated that existing technical and
financial constraints would limit the coverage of the grid to 80 percent of the population
leaving about 20 percent (or about 1 million households) reliant on off grid systems.
Subsequently, the Government moved aggressively to increase generation (2,483 MW to
3,312 MW during 2003-12) and expand the grid, with the result that only 40,000
households remained to be covered through off-grid options by 2013. As the
development of major hydro has remained stagnant at 1,207 MW since 2003, the growth
in generation came mainly from an increase in thermal power (51%) as well as renewable
energy (48%), the latter comprising small hydro, wind and biomass. The faster than
anticipated growth of the grid, while a welcome development, necessitated changes in
strategy and targets for off-grid electrification.

2.73 The overall risk rating for the project at appraisal was substantial. This is
reasonable for the type and scale of interventions proposed under the project. The
demand for refinancing of loans for grid-connected renewable energy projects depends
on a number of macroeconomic factors that are beyond the control of the project. For
example, when interest rates were substantially higher at certain periods during the
implementation period – most notably at the height of the military conflict – the demand
for refinancing loans reduced significantly. Demand grew once more when interest rates
dropped again. On the other hand, the risk of an insufficient market for SHS was
identified and considered moderate. The impact of a saturated market for SHS or
accelerated grid expansion was not analyzed in sufficient detail, which could have
anticipated some of the challenges faced during implementation. This is an important
lesson for other countries that are undertaking or planning aggressive off-grid
electrification schemes.

2.74 Again in retrospect, the inclusion of two relatively small components for energy
efficiency/demand-side management and cross-sectoral energy applications did not fit
well into the major thrust of the project. These components did not yield expected
results, and may even have diverted some focus and effort from the larger project
components.

2.75 The Bank’s quality of supervision during the project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The Bank’s supervision was characterized by a strategic management role
rather than day to day handholding of the implementing agency’s activities. This was
possible because of AU’s capacity and competence, and contributed greatly to its sense of
                                                        26


ownership of the project for both AU and the Government. Feedback from the AU and
the Government suggests that the Bank responded adequately and in a timely manner to
requests for clearances and participated regularly in meetings with all project
stakeholders. Both AU 17 and other stakeholders credited the participatory approach and
its approach to the Bank and the project.

2.76 The role of the Bank was highly valued as indicated by the feedback survey
conducted at the end of the project. This was confirmed by the mission from the
feedback it received from the Government, AU, Participating Credit Institutions and
other stakeholders. Most respondents recognize the Bank as a key catalyst for grid-
connected and off-grid renewable energy and energy efficiency interventions. The Bank’s
involvement increased the confidence of the Participating Credit Institutions to continue
to provide long-term loans to private developers of renewable energy projects. This was
of particular importance because increasing the access to energy services from renewable
energy was at the heart of the RERED design.

2.77 However, the Bank was less responsive in dealing with the implementation issues
with solar PV, cross-sectoral energy applications and energy efficiency & demand side
management components. Despite the early onset of problems from 2006 onwards, it was
not until late-2010 when Bank revised output targets for solar PV component, and also it
is unclear if the Bank proactively examined the implications of potential risks of non-
payment by SHS customers on the vendors, creditors and the refinancing by the project.
It is also unclear if the Bank enabled dialogue with Ceylon Electricity Board and the
Government on these issues and possible coordination of grid expansion with off-grid
options during this period. Similar lack of proactivity is apparent concerning the other
two components, as also noted by the absence of such discussion in the additional
financing documents.

2.78 The Bank could have done more to encourage and assist the AU in making active
use of the technical assistance component rather than relying on requests from the
industry, beneficiaries, or other stakeholders. The Bank could also have insisted on better
transition arrangements from the AU to Sustainable Energy Authority including the
digitizing and transfer of documentation.

2.79 Some stakeholders also pointed to the sometimes passive role of the Bank in
critical issues (e.g. The Ceylon Electricity Board’s least cost development plan and
implications for non-conventional renewable energy); while most expressed that the Bank
seemed to have exited the sector too soon since many policies formulated and adopted
during the project period were showing signs of stress and the absence of the Bank’s lead
and convening forte was conspicuous. Interestingly, the Public Utilities Commission of
Sri Lanka shared the view that local economic gains from non-conventional renewable
energy projects could now be integrated into a broader theme of rural economic
development, and that the Bank’s presence could have facilitated this effectively.

2.80     Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

17
  The AU noted that despite the value-added of such an approach, other financiers like the European Investment Bank
had not included technical assistance in their ongoing projects and financing.
                                            27


BORROWER PERFORMANCE

2.81 The government’s performance is rated Satisfactory. The Government showed
consistent support to the project objectives throughout appraisal and implementation.
During the project implementation period, in October 2007, the Government established
the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority as an apex institution responsible promoting
sustainability in energy generation and use through increasing the use of indigenous
renewable energy resources and improving energy efficiency. This underlined the
commitment of the Government to renewable energy and complemented the activities of
the project.

2.82 The Government ensured continuity in the implementation arrangements from the
earlier Energy Services Delivery project by working through the same AU located in the
DFCC Bank. The Government also appropriately took a hands-off approach to the day-
to-day implementation of the project and generally limited its own role to creating an
enabling environment and providing counterpart funding. It facilitated the
implementation of the project by providing the required policy and regulatory support,
and approving investments by the utility for upgrading substations. The Government also
provided considerable grant support for renewable energy through the Ceylon Electricity
Board, directly to beneficiaries for SHS, and through provincial councils for village
hydro schemes. It established attractive tariffs for selling renewable electricity to the
national grid and ensured that the Standardized Power Purchase Agreement terms and
conditions were adhered to by all parties. The Government was very responsive to the
routine refinance-linked disbursement requests from the AU and was supportive in
addressing problems that arose during the process. The mid-term review noted that there
were delays in some cases in granting necessary approvals on the part of the Central
Environmental Authority (CEA), and in dealing with overloaded substations on the part
of the Ceylon Electricity Board. On balance, the Government’s performance is rated
Satisfactory.

2.83 Implementing agency performance during the project is rated Highly Satisfactory.
The AU situated in the DFCC Bank was the implementing agency for the project. The
AU was well placed to work with the Participating Credit Institutions and private
developers and administer the refinancing mechanism due to its experience in
commercial banking transactions.

2.84     The AU displayed strong commitment and professionalism to the objectives of
the project, and coordinated well with all major stakeholder groups including
Participating Credit Institutions, MFIs, developers, SHS vendors, village hydro
developers, industry associations, village electricity consumer societies, the Ceylon
Electricity Board and other Government organizations. In coordinating with stakeholders,
the AU consolidated the consultative process that had been developed under the Energy
Services Delivery project. Feedback to the mission from stakeholders suggests that they
generally hold favorable views about the AU and its helpful role during their interactions.
Some developers were very complimentary of the neutral role played by the AU;
especially as it is also one among peer Banks and Participating Credit Institutions. Other
Participating Credit Institutions indicated that the AU was professionally staffed and
managed.
                                             28


2.85 The AU was administratively separated from the lending arm of DFCC Bank to
minimize conflict of interest in the eyes of the other Participating Credit Institutions that
were competing with DFCC Bank for refinancing of their loans. Procedures were
documented well in the AU, and detailed records of sub-projects were maintained well.
In retrospect, the AU could have done better in identifying more opportunities for
technical assistance activities to support the various components, and in planning for a
smoother transition after project completion, especially in the development of Sustainable
Energy Authority’s readiness.

2.86   Overall, Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

2.87 Monitoring & Evaluation Design. The M&E framework employed appropriate
outcome and output indicators that were well-defined and largely measurable. The
responsibility for collecting the M&E indicators lay mainly with the AU. The objective
of improving the quality of rural life by utilizing off-grid renewable energy technologies
was to be measured through: (i) increase in income generating activities in communities
that gain access to electricity; and (ii) increased electricity connections to households,
rural small/medium enterprises and public institutions. The number of households, small
and medium enterprises and public institutions electrified was to be obtained from regular
reporting under the project. The increase in income generating activities would be
assessed through surveys, though it was noted that attribution to the use of renewable
energy technologies might be difficult.

2.88 The objective of promoting private sector power generation from renewable
energy resources for the main grid would be measured by additional MW of small-scale
renewable grid-connected power generation capacity. The global environmental
objective would be tracked through reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the
adoption of renewable energy and the trend in implementation cost as proxies for
reducing market barriers. The indicators were adequate to assess achievement of this
objective.

2.89 M&E Implementation. The AU contracted a consultant to monitor progress
towards achieving objectives and meeting indicators. M&E reports were submitted
initially every quarter and bi-annually from 2006 onwards. The AU collected the
required information as part of its routine administration work and progress was
monitored throughout the sub-project lifecycle. The task team reports that the information
provided was current and reliable. The Bank also hired an expert consultant to help
review the progress and issues with solar PV component, which was helpful in examining
options to resuscitate this component.

2.90 M&E Utilization. The M&E process helped in proposing and pursuing the
various corrective actions that emerged as described in the section on “Implementation
Experience”. The AU also conveyed that it had replicated the M&E processes for this
project in other ongoing donor supported projects.

2.91   Overall, M&E is rated High.
                                           29


3. Lessons
  •   Local participation and involvement, suitably incentivized, is crucial to
      promoting distributed power generation activities. Active local participation
      drove the momentum and successful implementation of the 68 mini hydro
      projects and the 173 community-based micro hydro projects supported by the
      project. The participation came in the form of local political support and the
      newly-formed village level electricity consumer societies, which were
      incentivized by opportunities for selling a part of the generation to the grid
      through ‘net metering’.

  •   Involving the private sector effectively in a decentralized developmental
      effort requires flexibility in implementation arrangements and space for
      adapting to market conditions. In spite of past lessons informing the design of
      the project, almost all major aspects – financing and disbursement parameters,
      procurement policies and approach, SHS business model – had to undergo
      modifications to keep up the pace of implementation. Without such adjustments,
      the project would likely have stalled /failed.

  •   An appropriate feed-in-tariffs policy and its consistent and transparent
      application are crucial to spur growth of small scale and non-conventional
      renewable energy generation. The low transaction costs enabled by attractive
      feed-in-tariffs crowded in project developers and investors, as well as
      commercial/investment banks to develop and invest in a variety of distributed
      generation projects. Market confidence was enhanced by consistent and
      transparent application of the policy by the regulator / government.

  •   Investments in off-grid electrification could be underutilized or even
      abandoned in the event of a faster than expected arrival of the electricity
      grid. To mitigate this, the expansion of the grid should be coordinated with
      off-grid investments, and, where warranted, the off-grid facilities should be
      made grid-compatible to ensure their continued utility. In Sri Lanka, as the
      electricity grid expanded faster than expected, the decreasing necessity and
      relevance of off-grid electrification was not foreseen early enough, resulting in
      some off-grid facilities falling into disuse or neglect. This experience points to
      the need for planning ahead for a coordinated access rollout, and making policy
      and technical provision for making the off-grid facilities grid-compatible and
      economically viable.
                                          30




References
1. IEG 2008.The Welfare Impact of Rural Electrification: A Reassessment of the Cost
   and Benefits. An IEG Impact Evaluation. World Bank, Washington D.C.

2. UNDP 2012. Renewable Energy Sector Development: A Decade of Promoting
   Renewable Energy Technologies in Sri Lanka. Case Study 11. Environment and
   Energy. January 2012.Asian Development Bank 2013. Energy Outlook for Asia and
   the Pacific

3. Government of Sri Lanka 2012. Energy Statistics 2012. Sustainable Energy Agency,
   Colombo, Sri Lanka

4. National Energy Policy and Strategies for Sri Lanka, GOSL Gazette Notification,
   dated June 10, 2008

5. Ceylon Electricity Board. Sector Statistics and CEB Annual Report 2011.
   www.ceb.lk

6. NCRE Feed-in Tariffs Announcement, August 2012; Annual Report 2012; and
   various other documents pertaining to sector regulation and performance. Public
   Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka. www.pucsl.lk

7. Performance Report of Distribution Licensees, 2013, PUCSL

8. Electricity Sector Cost Report, Jan-June 2013, PUCSL

9. Off-grid electrification using micro-hydro power schemes – Sri Lankan Experience –
   A survey, 2012, PUCSL

10. Stakeholder workshop meeting notes, Nov 24 and Dec 12, 2011: Small Hydropower
    Industry Association of Sri Lanka

11. DFCC. 2012. RERED Financial Statements and Independent Audit Report (Ernst &
    Young)

12. World Bank 2013. Sri Lanka Development Update. October 2013

13. Resources Development Consultants (Pvt) Ltd.: Monitoring and Evaluation of the
    Renewable Energy for Rural Development Project. September 2004 - September
    2008. Completion Report submitted to RERED AU.

14. Quality of Electricity Supply – Survey Findings: World Economic Forum (WEF):
    The Global Competitiveness Index data platform. Available at
    http://www.weforum.org/issues/competitiveness-0/gci2012-data-platform/
                                                31


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IDA-36731 IDA-36730 TF-51248)


Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                               Appraisal             Actual or         Actual as % of
                                               estimate           current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                             231.9                   253.9                 110%
Loan amount                                     115.0                   127.4                 118%
Co-financing                                      7.1                    7.0                  99%
Cancellation                                         -                    -                     -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P076702)
                             FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    15.0   23.5   40.6           63.7   81.8    89.6   97.5 110.0 115.0 115.0
Actual (US$M)                15.0   23.5   40.6           63.7   81.8    82.4   95.5 103.4 122.3 127.4
Actual as % of appraisal     100    100    100            100    100     92      98    94       106   111
Date of last disbursement: December 31, 2011


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P077761)
                            FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    1.6    3.5    5.2           5.3     6.1    6.4     6.6   6.9      7.1    7.1
Actual (US$M)                1.6    3.5    5.2           5.3     6.1    6.4     6.6   6.8      7.1    7.0
Actual as % of appraisal    100     100    100           100     100    100     99    98      100     99
Date of last disbursement: December 31, 2011


Project Dates (P076702; P077761)

                                                          Original                         Actual
Appraisal                                                01/22/2002                   01/22/2002
Board approval                                           06/20/2002                   06/20/2002
Effectiveness                                            10/07/2002                   10/07/2002
Closing date                                             06/20/2008                   12/31/2011
ANNEX A                          32


Staff Time and Cost
                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                         No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                 22.63                         70,966
  FY03                                  0.00                              0
Total:                                 22.63                         70,966
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                 25.37                         80,118
  FY04                                 22.77                         64,358
  FY05                                 18.98                         47,457
  FY06                                 19.63                         67,250
  FY07                                 16.03                         43,334
  FY08                                 26.47                         85,307
  FY09                                 27.65                        113,345
  FY10                                 19.16                         85,112
  FY11                                 20.28                         88,388
  FY12                                 16.01                        100,271
Total:                                212.35                        845,906
ANNEX A                                    33


Task Team Members
          Names              Title                              Unit    Responsibility
Lending
Subramanian V. Iyer          Team Leader                                Team Lead
Supervision/ICR
Abdulaziz Faghi              Energy Specialist                  SASDE   Team Lead
Amali Rajapaksa              Senior Infrastructure Specialist   SASDT   Procurement
Boonsri Prasertwaree Kim     Program Assistant                  SASDO   Energy Economist
Darshani De Silva            Environmental Specialist           SASDI   Financial Management
Deepal Fernando              Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSO2   Disbursement
Donna Thompson               Sr Financial Specialist            OPCFM   Resource Management
Gevorg Sargsyan              Program Coordinator                SEGEN   Financial Management
Hiran Heart                  Consultant                         SASDI   Procurement
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe    Sr Fin. Management Specialist      SARFM   Financial Management
Lashantha H. ayawardhana     Consultant                         SASDI   Env. Safeguards
Luis Alejandro Lopez         Program Assistant                  SASDO
Md. Iqbal                    Senior Energy Specialist           SASDE
Mikul Bhatia                 Senior Energy Specialist           SEGEN   ESCO Specialist
Miriam Witana                Procurement Specialist             EAPPR   Energy Specialist
Peter Johansen               Senior Energy Specialist           ECSS2   Energy Specialist
Raihan Elahi                 Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG   Energy Specialist
Ravindra Anil Cabraal        Consultant                         AFTEG
Peter Johansen               Senior Energy Specialist           ECSS2   Energy Specialist
Seenithamby Manoharan        Sr. Rural Dev. Specialist          SASDA   Rural Development
Shane Andrew Ferdinandus     Program Assistant                  SASDO
Shaukat Javed                Program Assistant                  SASDO
Sriyani De Alwis             Team Assistant                     SACSL
Sriyani M. Hulugalle         Senior Economist                   SASFP
                                                                        Environmental
Sumith Pilapitiya            Lead Environmental Specialist      SASDI
                                                                        Specialist
Supul Chamikara Wijesinghe   Financial Specialist               SARFM   Financial Management
                                                    34


      Annex B.                 List of WB Energy Projects in Sri Lanka
Table 1.         World Bank Lending for the Energy Sector in Sri Lanka (1992-Present)

No.   Project           Name             Approval   Closing           Instrument            Project       WB
        ID                                 FY         FY                                      Cost    Commitment
                                                                                            (US$M)      (US$M)
1     P010386 Power Distribution          1992      1998       Specific Investment Loan      79          50
              Private Sector
2     P010517 Infrastructure              1996      2007      Financial Intermediary Loan    232         77
              Development
3     P039965 Energy Services Delivery    1997      2003       Specific Investment Loan      30           6
4     P010498 Energy Services Delivery    1997      2003       Specific Investment Loan      55          24
                Renewable Energy For
5     P076702                             2002      2012       Specific Investment Loan      166         115
                Rural Economic
                Economic Reform
6     P077586                             2003      2008      Technical Assistance Loan      19          15
                Technical Assistance
                                   35


Annex C: Additional Data Tables and Figures
      Non-Conventional Renewable Energy (NCRE) Development in Sri Lanka

Figure 1




Figure 2
                                                    36


Table 1




Source: Figures 1, 2, and Table 1: Ceylon Electricity Board

 Table 2.        Average Revenue, Total Generation and NCRE Contribution (2000-2013)

                                     2000         2005        2010       2011      2012       2013
Total Generation (GWh)               6629         8898        10801      11646     11896    12151 a/
of which: from NCRE (GWh)              Na         280          727        722       730       1169
           as % of total               na         3.2         6.73        6.20     6.14        9.62
Ave. Rev. (LKR/kWh)                   4.85        7.99        13.10      13.42     15.73   17.73-18.60
Ave.Rev. (US cents/kWh)                na         7.83        11.79      11.78     12.27   13.97-14.66
        a/ extrapolated estimate
Source: Ceylon Electricity Board; and Sustainable Energy Agency Statistics, 2012
                                   37




Figure 3




Source: Ceylon Electricity Board
Annex D. List of Persons Met
Government of Sri Lanka
Mr. Upali Daranagama , Additional Secretary, Ministry of Power and Energy,
Mr. B.M.U.D. Basnayake, Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Renewable Energy
Mr. Noel Priyantha, Chief Engineer (Renewable Energy), Ceylon Electricity Board
Mr. Thusitha Sugathapala, Director General, Sustainable Energy Authority
Mr. M.M.R. Pathmasiri, Deputy Director General, Sustainable Energy Authority
Mr. Damitha Kumarasinghe, Director General, Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Dr.B.M.S. Batagoda, Deputy Secretary to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance
DFCC Bank
Mr. Nalin Karunatileka Assistant Vice President, Project Management (AU)
Mr. Rohantha Seneviratne, Operations Manager
Commercial Banks / Participating Credit Institutions
Ms. Sushara Vidyasagara, Senior Manager, Corporate Finance, Commercial Bank of Ceylon
Mr. Kapila Subasinghe, Vice President, Corporate Banking
Mr. Champal de Costa,Vice President / Manager, Ratnapura Branch
Ms. Dulani Rodrigo, Relationship Manager, Corporate Banking, NDB Bank
Developers Associations / Advocacy Group / Think Tanks
Ms. Rekha S. Karunaratne, Small Hydropower Developers Association;
Mr. Shakila Wijewardena, Sarvodaya, Vice President, Microfinance and Guarantee Company
Mr. T.K. Weerawardhana, Sarvodaya, Microfinance and Guarantee Company
Mr. Asoka Abeygunawardhana, Executive Director, Energy Forum
Mr. Bandula Chandrasekara, Programs Coordinator, Energy Forum
Project Developers
Mr. Herath Dissanayake, Managing Director, Wisdom Solar Pvt. Ltd.
Ms. Rozanne Croos Moraes, Project Manager, Senok Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd
Ms. Praveena Sivamohan, Finance Manager, Senok Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd
Mr. Vishnu Vasanth, Managing Director, RenewGen Ventures
Ms. Rekha S. Karunaratne, Director, Integra International Pvt. Ltd.
World Bank / IFC / ADB
Ms. Francoise Clottes, Country Director, World Bank
Mr. Camilo Gomez Osorio, Country Economist, World Bank
Ms. Niluka Nirmalie Karunaratne, Team Assistant, World Bank
Mr. Abdulaziz Faghi, Senior Energy Specialist and Task Team Leader, World Bank
Mr. Kamal Dorabawila, Principal Investment Officer, IFC
Mr. Nishantha Jayasooriya, Associate Operations Officer, IFC
Mr. Milinda Wasalathantri, Investment Analyst, IFC
Mr. Ranishka Wimalasena, Project Officer (Energy), ADB


Note: During project site visits, several persons – traders / merchants, operators of power plants, SHS
owners at homes and shops, energy consultants and specialists – were met. Conversations were
facilitated through translators.
