Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054999 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Rio de Janeiro Sustainable Integrated Ecosystem Management in Production 
Landscapes of the North-Northwestern Fluminense Project) 
 
between 
 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated June 30, 2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054999 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2005, between the STATE OF RIO DE 
JANEIRO (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2; 
(D) 
the Project will be carried out by the Recipient, through SEAAPI, with 
the assistance of  CI/BRASIL, EMATER-RIO, EMBRAPA, FEEMA, DPGE, DRM, 
PESAGRO-RIO, and SOS 
Mata Atlántica
,
as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement;   
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated  May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and  (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and  4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Section 10.03;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f)  and  5.01 (a) thereof, means 
the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except 
Page  4
-
3
-
that in Section 
6.02,
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08 Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, 
the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on 
the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans.  To that 
end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of 
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect 
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Bank.”; 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
 (o) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(viii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”; 
(ix) 
the first sentence of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions is 
deleted; and 
(x) 
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions is modified as follows: 
 
“Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement 
which is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally 
settled by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The 
place of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C.  In the event of a 
conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the 
terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
govern.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a farmer or group of farmers holding 
ownership, possession or renting rights to the land or are partners, concessionaires or 
settlers of the agrarian reform; and (ii) a Community Association, grassroots associations 
and producer cooperatives which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) as beneficiaries of Microcatchment Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part B.1 of the Project; 
(b) CEDRUS 
means 
Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural 
Sustentável
,
the Recipient’s Sustainable Rural Development Council; 
(c) 
“CI/BRASIL” means Conservation International Brazil, a local non-
governmental organization affiliated with Conservation International, an international 
organization aimed at protecting plant and animal diversity in biodiversity hotspots, 
major tropical wilderness areas and key marine ecosystems; 
(d) “CMDRS” 
means 
Conselho Municipal de Desenvolvimento Rural 
Sustentável
,
each of the Recipient’s Municipal Rural Sustainable Development Councils; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(e) 
“COGEM” means 
Comitê Gestor da Microbacia
,
each of the Recipient’s 
Microcatchment management committees;  
 
(f) 
“Community Association” means a civil association formed by members 
of a community (
associação civil
)
duly established in the Recipient’s territory in 
accordance with the FRB’s laws; 
 (g) 
“
Convênio
”
means each of the institutional arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) “COREM” 
means 
Comitê Regional de Microbacias
,
the Recipient’s 
regional Microcatchment committee; 
 (i) 
“DPGE” 
means 
Defensoría Pública Geral do Estado
,
the Recipient’s 
Public Defender’s Office; 
 (j) 
“DRM” 
means 
Departamento de Recursos Minerais
,
the Recipient’s 
Department of Mineral Resources; 
 (k) 
“EMATER-RIO” 
means 
Empresa
 de Assistência Técnica e Extensão 
Rural de Rio de Janeiro, 
t
he Recipient’s rural extension agency established pursuant to the 
FRB’s Law No. 6969 of December 26, 1977; 
 (l) 
“EMBRAPA” 
means 
Empresa Brasileira 
de
Pesquisa Agropecuária,
 the 
FRB’s Agricultural Research Enterprise, established pursuant to the FRB’s Law No. 5851 
of December 7, 1972; 
(m) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan dated January 1, 
2005, and duly adopted by the Recipient as part of the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined), which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, 
as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of 
said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(n) 
“Executing Bodies” means CI/BRASIL, COPPETEC, DRM, EMATER-
RIO, EMBRAPA, FEEMA, DPGE, PESAGRO-RIO, SEAAPI and SOS Mata Atlántica; 
(o) “FEEMA” 
means 
Fundação Estadual de Engenharia do Medio 
Ambiente
,
the R
ecipient’s Environmental Management Foundation;  
Page  7
-
6
-
(p) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” means each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“FRB” means the Federative Republic of Brazil; 
 
(r) 
“Implementation Plan” means each of the annual plans referred to in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; 
(s) “Microcatchment” 
means 
microbacia hidrográfica
,
a
portion of a 
watershed or area, bound peripherically by a water parting, and draining ultimately in a 
particular watercourse which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 (t) 
“NNFW Region” means the Recipient’s north and northwest Fluminense 
Region; 
 
(u) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Bank and the Recipient; 
 (v) 
“PEM” 
means 
Plano Executivo da Microbacía
,
each of the 
Microcatchment development plans referred to in Part A.2 (a) of the Project; 
 (w) 
“Performance Indicators” means the set of performance indicators, to be 
used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in the Operational 
Manual, as such indicators may be revised with the agreement of the Bank; 
 (x) 
“PESAGRO-RIO” 
means 
Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Estado 
do Rio de Janeiro
,
the Recipient’s enterprise for agricultural research; 
 (y) 
“PID” 
means 
Plano Individual de Desenvolvimento
,
each of the individual 
plans for the development of a productive unit (farm) referred to in Part A.2 (b) of the 
Project; 
 
(z) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated March 
15, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 
to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(aa) 
“SEAAPI” means 
Secretaria de Agricultura, Abastecimento, Pesca e 
Desenvolvimento do Interior do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
,
the Recipient’s Secretariat of 
Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development;  
 (bb) 
“SEP” 
means 
Secretaria Executiva do Projeto
,
the Project management 
unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;  
(cc) 
“SOS Mata Atlântica” means 
Fundação S.O.S Mata Atlântica
,
a
non-
profit organization duly established in accordance with the FRB’s laws;  
(dd) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(ee) 
“Steering Committees” means CEDRUS at the state level, COREM at the 
NNWF Region level, CMDRS at the municipal level, and COGEM at the Microcatchment 
level; 
(ff) 
“Subproject” means a subproject consisting of one or more of the 
activities specified in Part B.1 of the Project, which subproject is selected, approved and 
implemented in accordance with the requirements of the Operational Manual;  
 
(gg) 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Recipient out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary for the 
cofinancing of a  Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual; and 
 
(hh) 
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equivalent to six million seven hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($6,750,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services, and incremental operational costs 
Page  9
-
8
-
required for carrying out the Project, as well as the goods, works and services required 
for the Subprojects, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2010 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through SEAAPI, with the assistance of: 
(a) 
EMATER-RIO, in respect of Parts A.2 (a), A.2 (b), C.3, D.2 and D.3 of 
the Project; 
(b) 
PESAGRO-RIO, in respect of Part B.2 of the Project;  
(c) 
EMBRAPA and DRM, in respect of Parts C.2 and D.2 of the Project; 
(d) 
FEEMA, in respect of Part D.2 of the Project; 
(e) 
CI/BRASIL, in respect of Parts A.1, C.2 and D.2 of the Project;  
(f) 
SOS Mata Atlântica, in respect of Part C.2 and D.2 of the Project; and 
(g) 
DPGE, in respect of Part A.2 (c), 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, social and environmental standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, counterpart funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 Section 
3.03. 
 
The Recipient shall:  
 
(a) 
enter into institutional arrangements (
Convênios
)
with each of EMATER-
RIO, PESAGRO-RIO, EMBRAPA, DRM, DPGE, FEEMA, CI/Brazil, and SOS Mata 
Atlântica, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth their respective 
responsibilities for the implementation of those Parts of the Project in which each of the 
agencies mentioned above participates; and 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each of the 
Convênios
 in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the objective of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
any of the 
Convênios
 or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.04. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall:  
(a) 
establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a unit 
within SEAAPI (the SEP), with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the purposes of 
assisting in the overall coordination of the Project, such unit to be headed at all times by a 
coordinator with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
establish (when needed) and thereafter integrate and coordinate the 
participation of the Steering Committees in the Project at the state, regional (NNWF), 
municipal and local level, with membership, responsibilities, structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), which shall contain the policies 
and procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the organizational structure of the Project (including the role of the Steering 
Committees and the Executing Bodies); (b) criteria for the selection of Microcatchments 
and Beneficiaries and for the financing of Subproject Grants; (c) requirements for the 
selection, approval and implementation of Subprojects, including the environmental 
screening, evaluation, approval and monitoring procedures; (d) the Project procurement and 
financial management requirements and procedures, (e) the Environmental Management 
Page  11
-
10
-
Plan; and (f) the indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.  In case of any 
inconsistency between a provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the 
provision of this Agreement will prevail. 
 
Section 3.06.  For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
 enter into an agreement with each Beneficiary, substantially in accordance 
with the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, including provisions 
regarding cofinancing agreements for said Subproject; and 
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each of the 
Subproject Grant Agreements, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce any of the Subproject Grant Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.07.  The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
not later than October 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual implementation plan (the Implementation 
Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the project activities to be carried out by 
the Recipient and other participating entities, during the calendar year following the 
presentation of each said plan; (ii) the Procurement Plan update for each said calendar 
year; and (iii) the budget allocated to the Project for the year in question and the 
respective sources of funding therefor; and 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Implementation Plan, approved by the 
Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.08.  The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and every year thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, reports integrating the results of the evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such reports and 
Page  12
-
11
-
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 (c) 
review with the Bank shortly after such reports’ preparation, the reports 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and taking into account 
the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  13
-
12
-
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure the 
Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Recipient’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the 
FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the GEF Trust Fund Grant and 
other financial and kind contributions, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 
5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
each of the 
Convênios
 has been entered into between the respective 
parties thereto; 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted the Operational Manual;  
(c) 
the SEP has been established in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank;  
(d) 
the Project Implementation Plan for the first 12 months of Project 
execution has been approved by the Bank; and 
(e) 
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 5.02. The date September 28, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  15
-
14
-
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of 
the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Secretariat of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development 
Alameda São  Boaventura 770,  
Niterói, Rio de Janeiro 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  (21) 262-71490 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD (202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
   
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
By /s/ Rosinha Garotinho 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Vinod Thomas 
Authorized Representative 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods (other than for 
380,000 
 
100% 
 Subprojects) 
 
 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
1,580,000 
 
100% 
 
(other than for Subprojects) 
 
(3) Training  
500,000 
 
100% 
 
(4)  Goods, Works and 
2,400,000 
 
100% 
 Consultant’s 
services 
for 
 Subprojects 
 
(5)  Incremental Operating 
1,215,000 
 
100% 
 Costs  
 
(6) Unallocated 
675,000
TOTAL 6,750,000 
 
======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Recipient to finance reasonable transportation costs 
Page  18
-
17
-
and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities, 
materials, services and equipment under the Project; and 
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of 
recurrent expenditures, all which would not have been incurred absent the Project 
required for the dissemination activities to be carried out by SEP, and the operations of 
the Executing Bodies (as defined in each 
Convênio
)
such as: (i) travel and per diem costs 
for staff carrying out supervisory, technical support to Beneficiaries, and quality control 
activities, as well as those travel costs associated with the COREM; (ii) consumable 
items; (iii) utilities and supplies; and (iv) operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, 
fuel and spare parts. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $340,000 may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 15, 2005 but not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures under 
Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to Part A of this Schedule, unless the 
Bank has reviewed and approved the first five (5) Subproject Grant Agreements. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to promote an integrated ecosystem approach to 
guide the development and implementation of sustainable land management practices in 
Microcatchments located in the Recipient’s NNFW Region. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Planning for Integrated Ecosystems Management Actions
1. 
Carrying out studies, workshops, and the necessary public consultation to 
enhance the policy, legal and regional planning framework for sustainable ecosystem 
management in the NNWF Region. 
2. 
Promoting behavioral changes among rural producers with respect to the 
preservation of natural resources and management of ecosystems and landscapes, 
through: (a) the formulation of Microcatchment development plans in critical and/or 
unique Microcatchments; (b) the preparation of farm-based individual or collective 
development plans; and (c) the participatory preparation of norms for responsible use of 
natural resources in the Microcatchments described in (a) above, to be applied in 
compliance with existing environmental legislation.  
 
Part B
:
Support System for the Adoption of Integrated Ecosystem Management and 
Sustainable Land Management Practices
1. 
Promoting the transition from conventional agricultural systems to a sustainable 
rural livelihood, through the financing of investments in Microcatchments (Subprojects) 
consisting of, 
inter alia
:
(a) recovery of degraded lands; (b) conservation or sustainable 
use of biodiversity; (c) water resources management and protection; (d) redirection of 
productive systems towards those that are socially and environmentally-friendly; and (e) 
processing and commercialization of environmentally and socially sound products. 
2. 
Supporting the adaptation of existing soil management practices and/or adequate 
technological solutions to replace currently unsustainable land use practices identified by 
the farming community at the Microcatchment level, through: (a) the improvement and 
validation of practices for the integrated management of natural resources; (b) the 
adaptation and validation of cropping, agroforestry and pasture management systems to 
Page  20
-
19
-
increase carbon stocks and biodiversity; and (c) the implementation of pilot agricultural 
production units to improve the use of rural space in environmentally fragile and 
vulnerable areas. 
Part C
:
Organization and Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of existing Community Associations residing in 
Project-supported Microcatchments in the management of natural resources, through the 
development and implementation of community self-management activities and the 
development and implementation of a community-based communication plan. 
2. 
Developing and implementing management and technical capacity building 
programs, through the provision of training (including workshops, exchange trips and 
field days) and environmental education to officials of the Executing Bodies on 
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, including training to support the 
implementation of socio-environmental actions on farms and in Microcatchments. 
3. 
Enhancing local capacity and increase support for sustainable natural resources 
management, through the provision of training and environmental education efforts to 
rural producers, family-based farmers, and residents of Project-benefited 
Microcatchments. 
Part D
:
Project Management, Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination
1. 
 Ensuring the effective implementation of Project activities and the efficient 
management of resources, through the provision of technical assistance, the necessary 
office equipment and operational costs for the operation of the SEP. 
2. 
Ensuring the achievement of Project objectives, through monitoring and 
evaluation activities that provide inputs to continuously guide Project management 
decisions. 
3. 
Designing and implementing of a Project information dissemination strategy to 
ensure the dissemination of Project experiences and lessons learned. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by November 31, 2009. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the FRB. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
said method. 
5. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount equivalent to 
$675,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  25
-
24
-
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
Page  26
-
25
-
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 
