                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No.: 88960




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                    Brazil

       RIO DE JANEIRO SUSTAINABLE INTEGRATED ECOSYSTEM
       MANAGEMENT IN PRODUCTION LANDSCAPES OF NORTH-
                NORTHWESTERN FLUMINESE PROJECT
                            (TF-54999)


                                 June 30, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Currency Unit = Real (R$)

2005                     US$1.00                 R$2.43
2006                     US$1.00                 R$2.18
2007                     US$1.00                 R$1.95
2008                     US$1.00                 R$1.83
2009                     US$1.00                 R$2.01
2010                     US$1.00                 R$1.65
2011                     US$1.00                 R$1.58

Abbreviations and Acronyms
COGEM       Micro-catchment Management Committee
COREM       Regional Micro-catchment Council
EMATER      The State Rural Extension Agency
EMBRAPA     Brazilian Agricultural Research Enterprise
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GEO         Global Environment Objectives
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS       IEG Public Sector Evaluation
IEM         Integrated ecosystem management
MIS         Management Information System
NNWF        North and Northwestern Fluminense Administrative Regions
PESAGRO     State Agricultural Research Agency
PEM         Microcatchment Development Plan
PES         Payment for Environmental Services
PID         Individual/Farm-level Development Plan
PPAR        Project Performance Assessment Report
SLM         Sustainable land management
UENF        State University of North Fluminense



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 - December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                  :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                              :   Ms. April Connelly
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 2
   Objectives ....................................................................................................................... 2
       Geographic scope of the operation ............................................................................. 3
   Relevance of objectives .................................................................................................. 3
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 4
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 7
   Monitoring and Evaluation Design ................................................................................. 9
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................. 10
   Changes to the Scope and Timing of Activities............................................................ 10
   Planned versus Actual Disbursements .......................................................................... 10
   Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component ........................................................... 12
   Implementation Experience .......................................................................................... 12
   Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation............................................................. 14
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 17
   Objective 1 address threats to biodiversity of global importance ................................. 18
   Objective 2 reverse land degradation in agricultural landscapes .................................. 22
   Objective 3 enhance carbon sequestration .................................................................... 24
   Objective 4 increase awareness at all levels of the value of adopting an Integrated
   Ecosystem Management approach to the management of natural resources ................ 25
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 29
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 30
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 30
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 31
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 34
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 35
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 37
This report was prepared by April Connelly, with input from Eraclito Neto who also provided support for
the IEG mission to Brazil in March 2013. The report was peer reviewed by Jack von Holst Pellekaan and
panel reviewed by Ridley Nelson. Marie Charles provided administrative support.
                                                                  iv


7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 37
References ......................................................................................................................... 39
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 41
Annex B. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 44
Annex C. Borrower Comments......................................................................................... 46



Tables
Table 1: Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent) ................................. 11
Table 2: Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent) .................................. 12
Table 3: Subprojects by Line of Support .......................................................................... 18
Table 4: Results of Analysis of changes in Land Use from Satellite Images ................... 20
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                          ICR Review*                        PPAR
Outcome                             Satisfactory                                                      Moderately
                                                                                                     Unsatisfactory
Risk to                              Moderate                                                            Moderate
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance Moderately Satisfactory                                                              Moderately
                                                                                                     Unsatisfactory
Borrower                    Moderately Satisfactory                                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                   Division Chief/
Project                 Task Manager/Leader                        Sector Director                  Country Director
Appraisal                  Alvaro J. Soler                         John Redwood                      Vinod Thomas
Completion              Marianne Grosclaude                    Ethel Sennhauser                   Deborah L. Wetzel
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vii


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Rio de Janeiro
Sustainable Integrated Ecosystem Management in Production Landscapes of North-
Northwestern Fluminese Project (TF-54999). The project was approved on May 5, 2005
and became effective on December 30, 2005. The total project cost at appraisal was US$
14.95 million. It was financed by a Global Environment Facility Grant of US$6.75
million. At project closure US$6.50 million had been disbursed (96 percent of the grant
amount). US$0.25 million of the original grant amount was cancelled. The project closed
on November 30, 2011, one year after the original closing date of November 30, 2010.
The extended time was required to make up for implementation delays that occurred
during the first three years of implementation.

This report is based on a review of project documents, including the Implementation
Completion and Results Report, the Project Appraisal Document, legal documents and
project files, and on discussions held with Bank staff involved in the project. It is also
based on an IEG assessment mission to Brazil that was conducted from February 25 to
March 8, 2013. IEG held meetings in Rio de Janeiro and conducted site visits in Campos
dos Goytacazes, Saquarema, São José de Ubá, Itaperuna, and Varre Sai to interview
beneficiaries and partner organizations. The mission expresses its appreciation for the
generous time and attention of the Borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons
met during the IEG mission is in Annex B.

IEG selected this project for a field assessment in order to verify its results and assess
their sustainability. The evaluation also provided input into the IEG Country Program
Evaluation of Brazil.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft report will be sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comment. Borrower comments will be
presented in Annex C.
                                             ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report reviews the experience and lessons from
the Rio de Janeiro Sustainable Integrated Ecosystem Management in Production
Landscapes of North-Northwestern Fluminense Project (2005-2011) in Brazil. The
project’s global environment objectives were “to: (i) address threats to biodiversity of
global importance, (ii) reverse land degradation in agricultural landscapes, (iii) enhance
carbon sequestration, and (iv) increase awareness at all levels of the value of adopting an
IEM approach in the management of natural resources.”

The project supported implementation of the Rio Rural program which promotes
sustainable development in rural areas of the State of Rio de Janeiro by employing a
participatory approach to promote integrated ecosystem management. The project
succeeded in putting in place a system to enhance stakeholders’ organizational capacity
for sustainable land use planning, which in turn has encouraged the adoption of
sustainable land management practices by beneficiary land holders. It also contributed to
strengthening the policy environment in support of sustainable land management
practices by catalyzing the signing of a decree that obligates the State to financially
support a Payment for Environmental Services system within the State’s Water
Resources Management Policy. However, at the time of the assessment mission, one year
after the project closed, there was little available evidence to demonstrate that the
sustainable land management interventions financed by the project have generated the
global environmental benefits that the project set out to achieve.

The project’s objectives were substantially relevant to national priorities and to the
Bank’s past and current country assistance strategies. The relevance of design in meeting
the objectives as stated was modest. While many activities included in design were
relevant to achieving the project’s objectives, the broadly stated Global Environment
Objectives were overambitious in comparison to the scale of project activities and its
timeframe.

With respect to the first objective, addressing threats to biodiversity of global importance,
participating land holders adopted practices aimed at increasing native forest vegetation
cover across the agricultural landscape adjacent to a globally significant ecosystem but
the project only measured the number of hectares in which such practices were carried
out. It did not measure the extent that regeneration actually occurred as a result of these
practices or an alternative measure of biodiversity related outcomes resulting from the
adoption of improved agriculture practices. The second global environment objective,
reversing land degradation in agricultural landscapes, could not be demonstrated due to
challenges in measuring the project’s ambitious soil and hydrological indicators. For the
third GEO, enhance carbon sequestration, there were estimates of the amount of carbon
sequestered under rotational pasture, one of the land uses promoted through the projects
on farm investments, which exceeded the appraisal target but it is not possible to assess if
this is an enhancement over the amount of carbon sequestered prior to the intervention
due to the lack of a baseline. With respect to the fourth GEO, increased awareness at all
levels of the value of adopting an integrated ecosystem approach in the management of
natural resources, the project made considerable effort to collect and disseminate best
                                             x


practices among project beneficiaries and to the public at large but no systematic
assessment was made to demonstrate that the awareness of the value of this management
approach has increased as a result of receiving this information. Consequently, the
project’s efficacy is assessed as modest overall.

Efficiency was substantial. Economic analyses show that the most frequently selected
subprojects were profitable. In addition each of these practices have the potential to
generate environmental benefits above and beyond the financial returns reported. There
were some inefficiencies in the management of project funds including a three year delay
in the start of field activities but the project was able to overcome this and disbursed all
of its funds by project closure. Taking into account the substantial relevance of objectives
but modest relevance of design, modest efficacy and substantial efficiency ratings, the
overall outcome rating of the project is moderately unsatisfactory.

The risk to development outcome is moderate. The main risk to project gains is that
farmers will not continue implementing the sustainable practices adopted under the
project. A number of factors potentially reduce this risk. The project provides continued
technical assistance for four years following release of financing and a follow on IBRD
project is ongoing that works with the same communities and providing an opportunity to
consolidate capacity gains and further productivity gains. Economic analysis indicates
that the land management practices were profitable. Some practices have been replicated
with farmers own resources. There are also a number of sources of funding in the State
that farmers can potentially access to further implement activities in their land
management plans. In recent years the government of Brazil has increased its efforts to
enforce compliance with environmental legislation which may contribute to sustainability
of activities aimed at restoring forest cover. Sustainability is also enhanced by legally
binding Codes of Conduct that were adopted in several communities to enhance
compliance with the environment code. The risk to Rio Rural as a long term program
stem from its dependence on strong project leaders and the need to strengthen the
arrangements for multi-institutional collaboration but both are addressed under an
ongoing follow on operation.

The Bank’s performance was moderately unsatisfactory. The project preparation team
drew on decades of experience from Bank financed micro-catchment development
projects in Southern Brazil. The project’s technical analysis was strong but the capacity
limitations of the implementing agency and the steep learning curve that multiple
implementation partners faced in grasping the project’s concept and methodology were
overlooked. Project design also relied heavily upon partnerships but the roles and
responsibilities of the various implementation partners were also insufficiently spelled
out. This later proved problematic. Supervision missions were frequent, benefitting from
a follow on operation being prepared in conjunction with the same implementation unit.
During supervision the Bank team worked closely with the project management unit to
improve financial management and procurement performance. However, progress ratings
were overoptimistic in the initial years of implementation when disbursements and
achievements were low, the reporting of missions was uneven and some targets were
overly ambitious and were not revised.
                                             xi


Government performance was moderately satisfactory. The State government’s
commitment was strong in that it took the lead on preparing and financing the project’s
preparation before GEF funds were available and kept the project implementation team
intact across changes in government administration. But release of counterpart funds was
delayed in the initial years of implementation due to the States constrained fiscal
environment. The project implementation unit assumed strong and effective
responsibility for implementation and continuity. Its procurement and financial
management performance was uneven, due to lack of experience with WB procedures,
but improved over time.

The project experience yields the following lessons:

Working through multiple institutional players can enhance policy and operational
outcomes but it requires that mechanisms are developed upfront to formalize
institutional partnerships with well-defined roles and responsibilities and common
targets. In this case, the project worked with twelve partner agencies and leveraged
additional co-financing from a host of entities that were implementing their own
programs in the project areas. While the partner agencies signed agreements with the
Ministry of Agriculture, the agreements lacked sufficient details on each partner’s roles
and obligations. Commitments depended on individual relationships. As a result there
was uneven engagement across agencies, with some agencies following their own modus
operandi and objectives. The benefits intended to be leveraged through co-financing were
compromised to some extent because the activities financed by Rio Rural/GEF and those
of co-financed programs essentially ran in parallel. The co-financiers were not obligated
to use the organizational or financial instruments developed by the project to empower
farmers and guide their investment planning. In addition co-financiers were not obliged
to share their project data with the project management unit.

Demonstrating achievement of objectives that require scientific measurement can be
compromised if technically competent entities are not brought in at the design stage. In
this case the plan for monitoring biophysical impacts of the project was designed by an
externally contracted firm and the technical agency responsible for the actual monitoring,
was not brought on board until after project preparation phase, at too late of a stage to
design an alternative plan. Some indicators could not be measured because of flaws in the
placement of monitoring stations. Other impacts could not be demonstrated because of
insufficient information in the baseline survey.

Formulation of global environment objectives should take into account the project time
frame and available resources. In this case the project's official objectives were stated in
terms of ambitious global environment objectives. But the project was designed largely
as a pilot to lay the foundation for a larger program to be scaled up in the future.
                                         xii


On-farm investments were implemented on a pilot scale more suitable for demonstration
purposes than for achieving the ambitious impact implied by the objectives statement.



                                                                Richard G. Scobey
                                                              Acting Director-General
                                                                     Evaluation
                                                              1


1. Background and Context
1.1     The state of Rio de Janeiro comprises a large urban population concentrated around
the capital city of Rio de Janeiro and large expanses of rural areas. Approximately 9 percent
of the national population resides in the state and 90 percent of this population lives in urban
areas. The economy is driven largely by the industrial and services sectors, accounting for 51
percent and 42 percent of state GDP, respectively. The agriculture sector contributes a
comparatively small proportion to the State’s GDP but it plays a key role in the rural
economy, accounts for a large percent of rural employment, and for a large portion of total
land use. The agricultural sector contributes to a very small proportion of overall state GDP
(0.5 percent). Outside of the metropolitan area of the city of Rio de Janeiro, however,
agriculture’s contribution to GDP rises to nearly 5 percent, and when included with agro-
industrial activities, agriculture represents over 25 percent of state GDP. The agriculture
sector accounts for over 40 percent of rural employment (an estimated 157,492 individuals).
Approximately 60 percent of the state’s total land area is dedicated to agricultural activities.

1.2     The state contains a large portion of the remaining tracts of the Atlantic Rainforest, a
globally significant biome identified as one of the five biodiversity “hottest hotspots” among
the world’s twenty-five top priority conservation areas due to the high level of endemic
species it harbors and degree of threat. 1 The North and Northwest Fluminense (NNWF)
administrative areas have the largest stands of remaining forest in the state. Most of the large
tracts of remaining forest are conserved in protected areas but there are many smaller forest
fragments dispersed throughout the region on private lands.

1.3    The NNWF region is the largest agricultural producing region in the State and has the
highest rates of rural poverty, land degradation and deforestation. Most farms in the NNWF
region are small scale family farms or agrarian reform communities. The predominant
farming systems are monocultures of sugarcane or coffee and extensive cattle raising with
low technical inputs. Most farms depend on manual labor, lack corrective measures to
address soil fertility, make little use of technical assistance and have modest organizational
capacity. (World Bank 2005)

1.4    The region’s natural resources are under severe pressure from deforestation and land
degradation. Land conversion and charcoal production are drivers of the state’s high levels of
deforestation. Past agricultural policies, favoring mono-cropping, and overgrazing have
contributed both to deforestation and large tracts of degraded land. 80 percent of the region’s
land has suffered a moderate to severe degree of erosion. Pasture degradation, soil erosion
and the reduced availability of water have in turn reduced agricultural productivity and
contributed to outmigration.




1
  The Atlantic Forest is the most threatened and over-exploited biome in Brazil, in terms of vegetation loss and
deforestation. The State of Rio de Janeiro has the highest percentage of Atlantic Forest with respect to total area among all
states in Brazil.
                                                              2


1.5     The project was conceived to support the long-term conservation and rehabilitation of
agro-ecosystems through an integrated ecosystem management (IEM) approach 2 to the
conservation of the Atlantic Forest, and would include the development and implementation
of sustainable land management (SLM) practices that provide environmentally and socially
sustainable economic opportunities for rural communities. It sought to address the following
constraints affecting the adoption of IEM and SLM in the NNWF region: (i) insufficient
human and institutional capacity and weak community organizations at the local and state
levels; (ii) producers' lack of capital to undertake the fairly heavy, up-front investments
needed to adopt SLM techniques; (iii) limited number of SLM practices adapted to specific
agro ecological conditions of the NNWF region; and (iv) insufficient organized data and
information available to decision-makers to incorporate eco-system level considerations into
productive activities.

1.6     The project aimed to strengthen and develop the foundations of the State Micro-
catchment Program for Rural Sustainable Development (Rio Rural) which provides rural
extension and infrastructure to rehabilitate micro-catchment resources. Rio Rural aims to (i)
raise awareness among small farmers, local managers, technicians and stakeholders about
global environment issues and their role in biodiversity conservation, water protection and
climate change mitigation and (ii) long term support to small farmers to transition to eco-
friendly productive systems.

1.7     The project built on decades of World Bank support for sustainable land management
projects in other states in southeastern Brazil that employed a participatory process to reverse
land degradation and improve watershed health using the micro-catchment as a physical unit
for planning purposes. Intervening at the micro-watershed level takes advantage of
geographical units of a more manageable size, linked by hydrological processes; stronger
social cohesion within micro-watersheds; ease of monitoring and measuring results; and ease
of scaling micro-watershed management projects to other areas, such as downstream
communities. Although prior rural development projects implemented by the State Secretary
of Agriculture had included environmental sustainability and natural resources management,
they were targeted at the farm or sub-community levels, with little attempt to link them
within a broader planning framework based on an ecosystem approach. This was the first
attempt in the State to intervene at the micro-catchment scale.



2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Objectives
2.1     This was a stand-alone GEF project and had both global environment objectives and
project development objectives. The Global Environment Objectives (GEOs), as stated in the

2
  Integrated Ecosystem Management is a strategy for the integrated management of land, water and living resources that
places human needs at its center. It is a holistic and participatory approach to land use that balances and manages ecological,
social, and economic components of ecosystems to ensure that biodiversity and ecological processes can be sustained under
development pressure and social change. (IUCN)
                                               3


Project Appraisal Document (pg. 6) were to: “ (i) address threats to biodiversity of global
importance, (ii) reverse land degradation in agricultural landscapes, (iii) enhance carbon
sequestration, and (iv) increase awareness at all levels of the value of adopting an IEM
approach in the management of natural resources. The desired principal outcomes for the
global environment are: (i) conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, and (ii)
increased carbon storage in terrestrial ecosystems”.

2.2     The project development objectives, as stated in the grant agreement (pg.18) were:
“to promote an integrated ecosystem approach to guide the development and implementation
of sustainable land management practices in Micro-catchments located in the Recipient’s
NNFW Region.” The PAD (pg. 5) set forth the following project development objective: “to
promote an integrated ecosystem management (IEM) approach to guide the development and
implementation of sustainable land management (SLM) practices in the North and Northwest
(NNWF) regions of Rio de Janeiro State. The desired principal outcomes for the primary
target group (smallholder families and communities) are: (i) improved capacity and
organization for NRM, and (ii) increased adoption of IEM and SLM concepts and practices.”

2.3     This review used the global environment objectives as the basis of assessment as the
project was a stand-alone GEF-financed project implemented by the World Bank but
received no IBRD finances. This is in accordance with OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines.

GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE OF THE OPERATION

2.4    The project area covered the North and Northwestern Fluminense (NNWF)
administrative regions in the State of Rio de Janeiro. This project area encompasses 22
municipalities covering an area of 15,000 km2 and with about 30,000 family farms and
harbors the largest stands of remaining Atlantic Forest in the State. (World Bank 2012)

2.5     Selection of targeted watersheds and micro-catchments was based on social and
environmental considerations. The selection criteria for watersheds included:
environmentally sensitive or critical areas, particularly those which are highly vulnerable to
erosion; land use patterns; presence and size of sites considered national conservation
priorities; presence of Protected Areas; natural vegetation cover; rural poverty; percentage of
rural population; and the percentage of small producers among all producers. The specific
micro-catchments within each watershed were selected according to: the significance of the
micro-catchment’s biodiversity; the presence of springs or other sources of surface or ground
water critical to the protection of the micro-catchment; the concentration of small producers;
the existing level of community organization; and land use and soil management aspects.

Relevance of objectives
2.6     The project's objectives were substantially relevant to past and current World Bank
country assistance strategies, the operational strategies of the Global Environment Facility
and national priorities set forth in national strategies and international conventions to which
Brazil is a signatory.
                                               4


2.7      The GEOs are aligned with the pillar for improving environmental sustainability in
both the FY 2004-2007 and FY2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy. As well as the long-
term country strategy goals of better water quality and water resource management, and more
sustainable land management, forests and biodiversity. The objectives remain relevant to the
FY2012-2015 Country Partnership Strategy objective of furthering improvement of
sustainable natural resource management and enhanced climatic resilience while contributing
to local economic development. The GEOs were also consistent with the Global
Environment Facility’s Operational Programs on Integrated Ecosystem Management (OP 12)
and Sustainable Land Management (OP 15).

2.8     In terms of aligning with national priorities, the project was one of several programs
intended to implement the Rural Development Strategy of the Government of Rio de Janeiro.
The targeted implementation areas overlap with national priority areas for the conservation of
the Atlantic Forest identified in the National Program for Biological Diversity. The project
was also relevant to various national policy documents and environmental laws that pertain
to deforestation, soil erosion and control, and facilitating the adoption of sustainable
agricultural production practices. In addition the GEO’s are fully consistent with the
provisions of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change.

Design
Components

2.9    The project comprised the following four components (and 10 sub-components):

2.10 Component 1: Planning for Integrated Ecosystem Management Actions (Estimated
US$0.94 million; Actual US$1.33 million) The component financed studies to influence
policy-making and strengthen state and local frameworks to facilitate adoption of IEM
principles and SLM practices, based on lessons learned from land management investment
activities. It comprised two sub-components: (i) Strengthening of IEM Incentive Structure
and Ecosystem Management Systems; and (ii) Local Land Management Planning.

2.11 Component 2: Support Systems for the Adoption of IEM/SLM Practices (Estimated
US$8.8 million; Actual US$8.94 million) The component financed technical and financial
support to small farmers to carry out subprojects to assist in the transition from non-
sustainable farming practices to sustainable livelihood activities to improve biodiversity,
reduce or reverse land degradation, and increase carbon sequestration. It comprised two
subcomponents: (2.1) Financial Support for Sustainable Natural Resources Management.
This subcomponent provided technical and financial support to farmers to carry out
subprojects to assist in the transition to sustainable livelihood activities which enhance
biodiversity conservation and carbon sequestration in agricultural landscapes. Five categories
of investments were eligible for project financing: (i) recuperation of degraded areas; (ii) use
and sustainable management of biodiversity; (iii) management of water resources; (iv) re-
orientation of productive systems to sustainable systems; and (v) commercialization of socio-
environmentally sustainable projects. Sub-component (2.2) Support to Adaptive Management
Practices. This subcomponent supported demand driven adaptation of existing soil
                                               5


management practices or adequate technological solutions to unsustainable land use issues.
The activities included: (i) adaptation and validation of cropping, forestry, agroforestry, and
pasture management systems to increase carbon stocks and biodiversity; and (ii)
implementation of pilot units to improve the use of rural space in environmentally fragile and
vulnerable areas or in the buffer zones of Protected Areas.

2.12 Component 3: Organization and Capacity-Building for Integrated Ecosystem
Management (Estimated US$2.47 million; Actual US$1.53 million) The component financed
training, education and community engagement efforts to facilitate the formation and
strengthening of rural organizations for self-management of natural resources and the sharing
of project implementation experiences and lessons with stakeholders at all levels, to broaden
project impact. It comprised three sub-components: (i) Community Organization; (ii)
Training of Project Executors; and (iii) Training and Environmental Education of
Beneficiaries.

2.13 Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (Estimated US$2.74
million; Actual US$3.28 million) The component financed participatory management and
monitoring activities to leverage project impact, effective project implementation and
coordination, and results dissemination. It comprised three sub-components: (i) Participatory
Management of the Project; (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation; (iii) Project Dissemination.

Implementation arrangements

2.14 The State Secretary of Agriculture was the principal implementing agency
responsible for the project but project management was carried out through a multi-tiered
structure comprising both executing bodies and coordination forums at the central, regional,
municipal, and local levels.

2.15 Executing bodies. A central project management unit was set up within the Ministry
of Agriculture’s Micro-catchment Directorate and charged with project preparation, overall
project management and implementation. The central project management unit was
supported by two regional project implementation sub-units responsible for implementation
of project activities in each of the target administrative regions. Working agreements were
also signed between the primary implementing agency and other regional and local
implementation partners with an active presence in the region. This arrangement was
intended to leverage the operational capacity of the each partner and mainstream the project
approach within the partner agencies programs in the target areas. Implementation of projects
activities at the municipal level was carried out by local offices of the State Rural Extension
Agency (EMATER) and municipal governments. Civil society organizations active in the
project areas were also expected to play a role in supporting municipal level implementation
of project activities.

2.16 Coordination Forums. Steering committees were established to provide external
coordination to facilitate the integration of project activities with those being carried out by
other projects and program, overall guidance and address potential conflicts. At central level,
the Project Steering Committee was established in the preexisting State Council for Rural
Development, comprising representatives from various project – relevant state secretariats,
                                               6


rural workers and farmers trade unions, civil society and fishermen’s associations. The role
of the Project Steering Committee was to oversee general project implementation progress,
facilitate integration of the project with state and national rural development strategies and
integration among partner institutions.

2.17 At the regional level, a Regional Micro-catchment Council (COREM) was
established to represent the entire North-Northwestern administrative regions covered by the
project. The COREM played a deliberative role in the project, contributed to monitoring and
evaluation, reviewed and endorsed the project’s implementation policy and priorities, its
annual operational plans and approved fund allocation proposed by the center project
management unit for each micro catchment. It was also charged with resolving conflicts
among project stakeholders, endorsing subproject grants, and ensuring collaboration among
partner institutions.

2.18 At the municipal level, the preexisting Municipal Rural Development Council
(CMDR) served as a project coordinating body. The CMDR comprised representatives of
municipal government, rural communities, NGOs, rural workers’ trade unions, small farmers
associations and rural extension institutions. The role of the CMDR was to endorse the
selection of micro catchments prioritized for project support, review implementation of the
micro catchment land management plans (PEMs), contribute to dissemination of the project’s
objectives and results, and mediate potential conflicts among stakeholders.

2.19 At the local level, Micro-catchment Management Committees (COGEM) were
established in each participating micro-catchment. The COGEM served as representative of
the various micro-catchment groups supported by the project. The COGEM was responsible
for local planning and management of project activities. They approved the PEMs prepared
by the various micro catchment groups in collaboration with project executing institutions.
They approved the project’s local level annual operating plans and statutes of community
conduct, endorsed Individual Farm-level Development Plans (PIDs), and managed and
monitored and evaluated PEM implementation.

Implementation of farm level investments

2.20 The project was designed to work at three levels. At the watershed level it would
develop watershed management strategies. At the municipal level it would implement
training and environmental education programs to enhance local capacity, increase public
support for conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, and formulate proposals for
the creation of a system to support sustainable land management. At the micro catchment
level the project would support the preparation of Micro catchment Development Plans,
Individual Farm level development plans and provide financial and technical support for the
adoption of improved management practices identified within these plans. The provision of
grants for technical assistance and small scale investments would be provided on a demand-
driven basis. Once awarded, grant funds would be transferred directly to beneficiaries.
COGEMs and staff from the offices at municipal, regional and state level would be
responsible for monitoring the use of the grants. Farmers received four years of technical
assistance by EMATER technicians following the transfer of resources to implement their
subprojects.
                                                        7


Relevance of Design
2.21 Project design included many activities that were relevant for meeting the project's
objectives but some of the objectives themselves were overly broad and too ambitious for the
scale of project investments and the project timeframe. 3 The project was designed largely as
a pilot to lay the foundation for a larger program to be scaled up in the future. A factor that
may have contributed to the incongruence between the ambitious GEOs and the scale of
project investments is that the project was originally conceived as a blended operation in
which GEF financing would complement a proposed World Bank loan but the State’s
uncertain creditworthiness delayed Federal Government consideration of an IBRD loan. The
project was then prepared as a GEF funded operation that covered a smaller project area than
was initially envisioned. The project design was focused on foundational activities that could
be scaled-up and replicated in the future. These activities are more relevant to a more modest
pilot objective than to the project’s stated global environment objectives. The following
statement in the project completion report further underscores this disconnect between design
and stated objectives and suggests that the Bank and implementation team were focused on
meeting a de facto pilot objective as opposed to the projects actual objectives: “Despite the
characteristic breadth of the GEO, the project did not seek to finance the actual large-scale
implementation of IEM. It was a pilot/demonstration operation, emphasizing on-the-ground
actions which could be replicated and provide the foundation for scaling up.” (World Bank
2012, pg. 5) A similar statement is reported on pg. 19: “The project’s GEO and PDO were
substantially achieved when viewed - as intended at appraisal - as the technical, operational
and institutional framework for more extensive efforts state-wide (and already under
expansion through the Rio Rural/IBRD operation).”

2.22 Issues with individual GEO’s and their associated results frameworks are discussed
below. Two of the GEOs, addressing threats to biodiversity of global importance and
reversing land degradation in agricultural landscapes, are stated in absolute terms and refer
to long term processes beyond the projects timeframe. They lacked sufficient intermediate
indicators that could indicate the likelihood that longer term objectives would be meet.

2.23 With respect to the objective of addressing threats to biodiversity of global
importance the project appraisal document indicates that the biodiversity targeted was the
Atlantic Forest biome. The main threats are identified as: deforestation related to land
conversion and charcoal production, agricultural expansion, and smallholder agriculture. 4

3
  In its guidelines for the content of the PAD, OPCS recommends that the project’s development objective(s)
should: “(a) be stated as concisely as possible; (b) indicate the primary target group(s) and the change/response
expected from this primary target group as a result of project interventions; and (c) focus on outcomes for which
the project can reasonably be held accountable. It should neither encompass higher level objectives beyond the
purview of the project, nor be a restatement of the project's components or outputs.” Similarly, OPCS guidance
on writing Implementation and Completion reports notes that PDO/GEOs should be focused on the outcome for
which the operation could reasonably be held accountable, given its duration, resources, and approach, without
encompassing higher-level objectives that depend on other efforts outside the scope of the operation.
4
  The PAD identifies the major threats associated with the smallholder agriculture s: “(i)deforestation of the
floodplain forests and grasslands attributable to the introduction of conventional monocropping agriculture
(mainly sugar cane), and consequent loss of soil fertility and soil erosion; (ii)deforestation of the remaining
tropical semideciduous forests associated with the advance of the agricultural frontier into marginal areas (slash
                                                             8


The project aimed to address the threats from smallholder agriculture by supporting the
adoption of improved production and natural resource management practices. The practices
specifically identified as generating biodiversity outcomes all relate to increasing forest
cover. 5 But the project only tracked the number of hectares in which biodiversity friendly
practices expected to lead to enhanced forest cover were implemented it did not track the
extent to which regeneration was actually taking place.

2.24 Reversing land degradation in agricultural landscapes is also a long term process.
The ambitious intent of this objective is reflected in the key performance indicator of a 50%
reduction of erosion and sedimentation in the watershed level. The project supported relevant
practices to meet this objective but they were only supported on a pilot scale. As
acknowledged by the project completion report, achievement of this scale of impact requires
interventions on a larger scale and for a longer time frame. 6

2.25 At the other end of the spectrum, the objective of increasing awareness at all levels of
the value of adopting an IEM approach in the management of natural resources is stated in
terms of outputs of a process as opposed to an actual outcome. This is problematic as an
operation’s objective is meant to be a statement of what it intends to achieve, expressed in
terms of an intermediate or final development outcome, as opposed to a financed deliverable
(output). In this case the objective statement should have clearly indicated what
change/response was expected from the primary target group as a result of increasing their
awareness of the value of adopting an IEM approach. The key performance indicator
associated with this objective does not provide any further clarification of the expected result

and burn, fuelwood and logging), and subsequent erosion of agricultural lands (mainly due to overgrazing);
(iii)unsustainable and illegal forest exploitation (fuelwood, logging and extraction of ornamental species and
herbs) and poaching (as a means of complementing the diet of rural families) in the remaining tropical moist
broadleaf forests and montane grasslands; (iv) deforestation of restingas (sand formations) and mangroves and
subsequent advance of the agriculture frontier into these and other coastal ecosystems, through the introduction
of irrigated horticulture by small farmers; and (v) inappropriate agricultural practices leading to loss in soil
biodiversity.” (PAD pg. 21)
5
 The list of subprojects eligible for project support (PAD pg. 52) under the category of conservation or
sustainable use of biodiversity are: forestry management, reforestation of groundwater recharge, protection of
groundwater recharge areas, isolation and rehabilitation of groundwater recharge areas. The project appraisal
document (pg. 103) also includes a fluxogram of the various environmental services expected to by the adoption
of sustainable agriculture practices, indicating that “Sustainable Use and Management of Biodiversity” would
be brought about by forest rehabilitation, actions to correct forest fragments, and the production of bioactive
substances.
According to the project document presented to the global environment facility the threat that the project is
addressing is habitat fragmentation and its strategy for addressing this threat was “to promote an integrated
ecosystem management approach to conservation that would foster biodiversity –friendly activities in areas
within and in proximity to the remaining forest remnants in the region that are already under some form of
protection. As project implementation progresses, “micro-catchment clusters” (defined as significant numbers
of farmers who adopt sustainable agricultural practices and biodiversity friendly approaches) will contribute to
the gradual development of the biological corridor through linking protected areas and forest fragments.”(GEF
2003, pg. 3-4)
6
  The project completion report (pg. 5) states “Targets such as a 50% reduction in erosion and sedimentation at the micro-
catchment level required longer-term and more massive interventions focused on changes in land use and management,
difficult to achieve/measure from small-scale, dispersed demonstration efforts.” (World Bank, 2012)
                                                             9


as it is pitched at an output level: “education and training of beneficiary stakeholders (1,900
by PY5), project executors (150 by PY4), and schools (25 by PY4)

2.26     The relevance of the project’s design to meeting its objectives as stated is modest.

Monitoring and Evaluation Design
2.27 The Project Appraisal Document outlined a comprehensive plan for monitoring and
evaluation. The project log frame specified KPIs for both the PDO and GEO and multiple
intermediate indicators and included time bound targets. The project completion report notes
that “there was confusion and overlap in the wording, meaning and targets of key PDO, GEO
and Intermediate indicators, too many of the latter and some of questionable relevance.” This
led to confusion over what should be measured in some instances. 7 Some indicators were too
ambitious. Such as the target of a 50 percent reduction in erosion and sedimentation at the
micro-catchment level, requiring more intensive interventions at a larger scale and for a
longer term than what was supported by the project. Other indicators were insufficient for
measuring outcome level achievements. The KPI for the project’s biodiversity objective, for
example, only tracked the number of hectares in which activities intended to lead to forest
restoration were carried out but did not measure actual regeneration. In addition to the
indicators in the project log frame there was a separate set of social impact indicators.

2.28 The monitoring and evaluation plan comprised a two-pronged approach. “Complete”
or full monitoring would be carried out by technical partner agencies in a sample of three
micro-catchments to assess environmental impacts that required more technical monitoring.
This would be complemented by participatory monitoring that would be carried out by
beneficiaries in all of the micro-catchments that receive project support. Beneficiaries would
work with project technicians to assess the implementation of project activities at the micro-
catchment level, and actively participate in data collection and other sampling activities to
monitor select social and environmental aspects of the project’s interventions (water and soil
quality, presence of wildlife, etc.). Participatory monitoring was also intended to solicit
feedback, enhance local capacity, and generate information to mobilize the participation of
other residents.

2.29 A Management Information System (MIS) would track the financial and physical
progress of the project. The MIS was to be a user friendly web based system that would
allow for real time tracking of implementation and facilitate interface between the project,

7
  There was confusion over the number of proposals and farmers the project aimed to reach. The PAD mentions a target of
4,400 “proposals”. The project completion report argues this was “an indicative target within a demand-driven project
framework - the first of its kind in this State. Farmer demand IEM/SLM investments, could not be projected with any
accuracy. It should also be noted that a single PID could generate several proposals from an individual farmer for
investments in different but complementary “practices” intended to maximize on-farm impact. A single subproject might
constitute several “practices”. Moreover, the various investments incorporated in PIDs were to be financed from a variety of
sources. The project was only one of these sources. Similarly the PAD Log frame refers to a target of 1,900 farmers
adopting IEM/SLM practices. This was assumed to combine 1,450 individual farmers and 150 groups averaging three
members. Whereas a target of 1900 PIDs is mentioned in the PAD’s “Arrangements for Results Monitoring” table. The
project completion report notes that “technical assistance and financial support for on-the-ground investments under sub-
component 2.1 targets “at least 1,000 producers and 150 groups”, not the 1450 individual farmers and 150 group
combination (1900) for farmers and PIDs, and is an error.”
                                                        10


service providers and beneficiaries. A project portal would also be established to channel
project information to policy makers and steering committees.

2.30 The central project management unit would be responsible for coordinating
monitoring, with EMATER and other co-executing agencies providing support and technical
assistance as necessary. Progress reports were to be prepared at least twice a year as part of
project management supervision. Monitoring and Evaluation of the project was to include an
ex-ante evaluation during the first year of implementation, a mid-term evaluation in the third
year and an ex-post evaluation in the fifth year.



3. Implementation
Changes to the Scope and Timing of Activities
3.1     The project's objectives and components remained unchanged throughout
implementation. The grant agreement was amended once on November 9, 2010, extending
the project closing date by 12 months to November 30, 2011. The extension was made to
permit full disbursement of the GEF Grant, and enable the completion of field activities that
had been delayed during the first three years of implementation as well as key studies of the
innovative instruments being piloted. The amendment also reallocated funds across various
expenditure categories. 8

3.2     The ceiling on the amount of subproject financing was adjusted in response to
inflation in the price for inputs (materials, labor and equipment) and exchange rate
fluctuations. When the project was approved in 2005, the ceiling for farm family subproject
was R$6,000 and R$4,000 for other participating farmers subprojects. Of this value, the
project would finance 80% for family farmers and 40% for others. When the project started
to release incentives financing to beneficiaries in 2008-9, it became apparent that the ceiling
was no longer adequate to implement the practices envisaged. Consequently, the ceiling was
adjusted to R$7,000 per family and R$5,000 for others. In 2010, an additional adjustment
was made, with the maximum for a family farmer increasing to R$8,750 and R$12,500 for
others.

Planned versus Actual Disbursements
3.3     The project appraisal document estimated total project costs of US$14.95 million to
be financed by a US$6.75 million GEF grant, State Government contribution of US$6.31
million, Federal Government contribution of US$1.11 million, and a combined NGO and
Beneficiary contribution of US$0.95 million. Actual project costs were US$18.31 million (23
percent higher than the appraisal estimate) and were financed by: US$6.65 of the GEF



8
 US$ 715,000 from Category 6 Unallocated and US$ 40,000 from Category 5 Incremental Operating Costs to Category 1
Goods (US$ (US$ 55,000), Category 2 Consultants’ Services (US$ 350,000), and Category 3 Training (US$ 310,000).
                                                            11


grant 9; a State Government counterpart contribution of US$3.60 million; a Federal
Government counterpart contribution of US$ 4.80 million; NGO and Beneficiary
contributions of US$0.22 million and US$3.04 million in co-financing contributions that the
project leveraged from various public and private entities with environmental, social and
cultural programs targeting the project areas.

3.4    Actual cost sharing differed from appraisal expectations for the following reasons.
The State Government contribution was less than anticipated at appraisal due to the State’s
constrained fiscal situation, but this was compensated for by the Federal Government’s
contribution that was four times the original estimate. Contributions from beneficiaries and
NGOs were about 28% and 3.2% respectively, of their original estimates. The beneficiary
contribution was below appraisal estimates because financing for subprojects that focused
exclusively on environmental practices was exempt from the State’s requirements for
beneficiary cost sharing.



Table 1: Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent)
      SOURCE OF FUNDS                   APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                 ACTUAL/LATEST                PERCENTAGE
                                          (USD MILLIONS)                     ESTIMATE                   OF APPRAISAL
                                                                           (USD MILLIONS)
Borrower/Recipient                                 6.31                         3.60                            57

Global Environment Facility
(GEF)                                               6.75                           6.65                         99
Federal Government of Brazil                        1.11                           4.80                        432
Other Co-financiers                                 NA                             3.04                        NA
NGOs, Beneficiaries                                 0.95                           0.22                         23
Total:                                             14.95                          18.31*                       123
Source: World Bank 2012




9
  There are inconsistencies between different project reports of the actual amount of GEF grant that disbursed. The internal
data system indicates that US$ 6.50 million had been disbursed (96 percent of the grant amount) and US$ 0.25 million of the
original grant amount was cancelled. Whereas the financing table in the project completion report shows that US$ 6.65
million of the GEF grant disbursed.
                                                              12


Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component

Table 2: Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                COMPONENTS                                APPRAISAL                ACTUAL/LATEST             PERCENTAGE
                                                          ESTIMATE                   ESTIMATE                       OF
                                                        (USD MILLIONS)             (USD MILLIONS)             APPRAISAL
Planning for IEM Actions                                     0.94                       1.33                     141
-Strengthening of IEM incentive
structure and eco-system planning
systems
                                                                0.15                       0.16                    106
- Local land management planning                                0.78                       1.17                    150
Support Systems for Adoption of
                                                                8.81                       8.94                    102
IEM/SLM Actions
- Financial support for sustainable
                                                                8.43                       8.53                    101
NRM
- Support to adaptive management
                                                                0.36                       0.41                    108
Practices
Organization and Capacity building
                                                                2.47                       1.53                     62
for IEM
- Community organization                                        0.43                       0.41                    145
- Training of project executors                                 0.41                       0.56                    137
- Training and environmental
education of beneficiaries                                      1.63                       0.35                     22
Project Management, M&E                                         2.74                       3.28                    120
- Participatory management of the
                                                                1.81                       2.41                    134
Project
- Monitoring and Evaluation                                     0.72                       0.74                    103
- Project dissemination                                         0.22                       0.12                     57
Total project costs                                            14.95                      15.08*                   101
Source: World Bank 2012
*There is a discrepancy of USD 3.23 million in the total project costs reported in different tables of the project completion
report. Actual amounts reported in the table on financing by source tally to USD 18.31, while those reported in the table of
project costs by component add up to only USD 15.08. IEG was unable to determine the correct costs by component.


Implementation Experience
3.5       Project implementation was challenged by the following factors:

3.6      The project experienced a number of disbursement delays during the first three
years of implementation due to change in State Government administration and the
States constrained fiscal situation. The launch of project activities coincided with a change
in state government administration. The project experienced budget delays that are common
in Brazil during the transition period between administrations: a lack of resources in the final
year of the outgoing government, followed by a delay in the commitment of budget resources
by the incoming administration until it adopts a project in its own policy agenda. Project
supervision documents indicate that once the incoming government incorporated the project
                                               13


into its own policy agenda, critical government support was provided for the remainder of the
implementation period (see para 6.23). During this time the State was also attempting to
negotiate an increase in its debt ceiling, it had reached its debt limit prior to the project’s
approval and the negotiation was intended to create fiscal space for a number of pending
programs/projects. The project completion report (pg. 8) indicates that as a result “the GEF
had to wait in line for funds, delaying key activities for several years.” State budget resources
were also drawn away from the project, as well as other state activities and programs, to
finance completion of the new Metropolitan Urban Transit system in Rio de Janeiro that had
run into financial difficulty due to the appreciating value of the Real to the US Dollar. The
delayed release of counterpart funds resulted in the release of GEF resources being delayed
until one year after project effectiveness. The project completion report indicates that the
delayed release of State counterpart resources in the first two years disrupted Annual
Operating Plans and sequencing. The erratic release of counterpart resources also affected
farmers’ decisions related to land management and agricultural activities as they depend on
financing that is synchronized with seasonal production cycles.

3.7      Many of the implementing agencies had to overcome capacity constraints. The
main implementing agency experienced administrative problems in part due to its
inexperience in implementing externally funded projects. These issues were eventually
overcome. Several of the implementing agencies linked to Department of Agriculture and
EMATER PESAGRO (The State Agricultural Research Agency) went through an
organizational restructuring shortly after the project field activities began which resulted in
the removal of some technicians that were engaged as project executers. In addition, there
was limited capacity in the regional offices of EMATER-RIO, the State rural extension
agency that served as the project’s interface with stakeholders in each micro-catchment. The
project completion report notes that EMATER-RIO was technically outdated, it experienced
a large turnover of extension agents due to implementation of an early retirement plan, and
initially its management and staff demonstrated limited commitment to the project’s concept
and methodology of working in collaboration with stakeholders to meet the goals of their
micro catchment plans. The project completion report states that EMATER’s presence and
effectiveness in the micro-catchments was uneven and its managers and technicians were
unwilling to innovate or be held accountable to the project for their performance. The project
implementing agency expressed concerns over the ability of EMATER-RIO to respond to the
accelerated demand of subproject’s that was expected under the follow on IBRD project. By
this time the State administration had adopted the Rio Rural Program as a flagship
development priority, and it approved a new public bidding process that led to the
contracting of 150 new field technicians. In addition, special spreadsheets were developed to
monitor technicians’ performance and achievement of extension targets, and to hold
managers accountable. Efforts were also made to build institutional commitment to the
project approach. Supervision reports and IEG interviews indicate that EMATER-RIOs
performance improved significantly over the course of implementation. However, a high
level of turnover in extension agents persisted throughout project implementation and
through the time of the IEG assessment mission (this issue is discussed in the section on risk
to development outcome).

3.8   Engaging local stakeholders was a lengthier process than anticipated. The project
completion report notes that a longer period than anticipated was required for local
                                               14


stakeholders, including municipalities, executing partner agencies, and farmers to understand
the project’s rationale of focusing on the micro-catchment as the unit of planning and agree
to engage. In addition the project had to overcome the initial skepticism of many landowners
in the project area due to the legacy of previously failed State and local initiatives. The lag
between implementation of the project’s planning activities at the micro catchment level and
funding of field activities is reported to have furthered this skepticism. IEG interviews
indicate that participation in COGEMs increased once the initial project participants received
financing for their subprojects and began to obtain results on the ground.

3.9     Project implementation relied heavily on partnerships with the intent of
maximizing project impact by leveraging co-financers operational capacity and
mainstreaming the project’s micro-catchment planning approach within their own
programs but their roles and responsibilities were not sufficiently defined to ensure that
these intentions would be realized. A total of twelve partner agencies signed agreements
with the Ministry of Agriculture but these agreements lacked sufficient details on each
partner’s roles and obligations. The project completion report indicates that in practice co-
financing agencies followed their own rules and standards and were not obliged to follow the
projects “key mechanisms” such as the use of PEMs and PIDs to guide investment planning,
or participating in the micro-catchment council. In addition they were not willing to share
basic data on their project operations and results. This posed a problem for the project team
and the project completion report authors in terms of assessing the full extent of the project’s
outcome and impacts. In addition, the project completion report notes that the leadership of
participating institutions showed uneven engagement with the project over time, some sought
to impose their own modus operandi and objectives and restricted critical input aimed at
improving their operations.

Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation
3.10 Implementation of project M&E was coordinated by a dedicated M&E team in the
project management unit. The project MIS was set up as planned, and was reported to have
functioned well. The project portal was accessed by a number of users. By project closure it
had registered 42,000 visits. Data generated by the project's M&E system was incorporated
in a number of dissemination materials that were distributed to a wide audience. The project
also financed a digital inclusion initiative that installed computer centers in local schools and
community centers in 13 micro-catchments, enabling farmers to access project information
generated at the regional and state level and from the MIS.

3.11 The project completion report indicates that overall implementation of the project's
complex monitoring and evaluation scheme was cumbersome, particularly for a first time
implementing agency. The project's multi-institutional structure made it difficult to
coordinate and operationalize monitoring activities. Many of the project's targets were
aggregates to be reached by the combination of GEF-financed and co-financed activities.
This proved to be problematic because there was no agreement with co-financing entities on
data collection procedures and the project management unit had no access to co-financers
databases, leading in turn to difficulties in reporting fully on the projects performance at
completion. In addition, monitoring the social impact indicators identified at appraisal proved
to be beyond the project's capacity, time and resources and was dropped.
                                              15


3.12 The complete or full monitoring scheme was implemented in the three targeted
micro-catchments but faced a number of difficulties. The project completion report indicates
that there was a high cost associated with data collection and the production of technical
materials relative to the benefits this information yielded. A baseline study was carried out
that was characterized as time consuming and of mixed relevance to the project. EMBRAPA
Soils, the agency charged with technical monitoring, reported to the IEG mission that the
baseline was not well suited to the needs for monitoring. They noted a lack of
classification/modeling of soil and water in different social contexts and the failure to take
into account level of existing degradation. The project completion report notes that feedback
of data generated from complete monitoring to the micro-catchment communities and
technicians was delayed and in some cases deficient. Information collection campaigns were
not synchronized with the subprojects so they did not benefit from the results and feedback.

3.13 Monitoring the soil erosion and sedimentation indicator was not possible due to the
location of monitoring stations in relation to the intervention areas and the scale of
interventions. In accordance with the project monitoring plan, hydro-sedimentology
monitoring stations were installed on the outfall areas of the three micro-catchments
designated for "complete monitoring". The stations were intended to detect changes in
hydrologic variables resulting from sustainable natural resource management practices
implemented by farmers. But the impact on reduction of sediments could not be detected
because the erosion activities were adopted by a limited number of farmers in disbursed
locations. To detect such changes in small areas, the monitoring equipment would have to be
installed immediately adjacent to the treatment areas. This aspect of monitoring was designed
by a firm that had been contracted during project preparation, while, the Brazilian
Agricultural Research Enterprise/Soils Division, the technical agency responsible for the
actual monitoring, was not brought on board until after the project preparation phase, at too
late of a stage to design an alternative plan.

3.14 Monitoring of biodiversity was carried out through a partnership with the State
University of North Fluminense (UENF). A number of research studies were conducted in
the micro-watersheds where the project was active. Including the identification and study of
forest remnants in the micro-catchments and their importance to biodiversity conservation.
As well as studies that demonstrate the impact of pollinator species on economically
important crops, and the importance of forest remnants to pollinator species. This
information expanded the knowledge base on biodiversity in the project areas but it was less
useful for demonstrating the outcomes of actual project activities. Although the research was
conducted in micro-catchments where the project was active, UENF researchers reported to
IEG mission that the research was not necessarily carried out on plots that received project
support and were not designed to detect changes in biodiversity resulting from the project
interventions.

3.15 Participatory monitoring was considered to be more successful. It was supported by a
consultant who had extensive experience working on World Bank funded micro-catchment
programs in other states. With technical support of the rural extension professionals farmers
collected water for quality analysis, monitored soil conditions and production. Another tool
employed for participatory monitoring was posting a wall panel in the landholders residences
in which the family tracks economic, environmental, social welfare and life quality
                                                            16


indicators. Project implementers reported to IEG that it was more cost effective than
complete monitoring and generated information that was of greater use to project
implementation. Participatory monitoring also generated useful information for the economic
efficiency analysis used in the project completion report. However, dissemination of the
collected information could have been better. The project completion report notes that
dissemination of information generated with the intent of mobilizing the participation of
additional residents in the micro-catchment was not done consistently. The IEG mission
notes that greater aggregation and use of the information collected through participatory
monitoring should have been considered for inclusion in the completion report to fill gaps in
knowledge on the projects results that were not detected through the more comprehensive
monitoring scheme. The project completion report includes some data from participatory
monitoring on soil and water quality in select micro-catchments but there appears to be a gap
between the volume of information that is reported to have been collected through
participatory monitoring 10 and its use in evaluating project outcomes.

Safeguards requirements and compliance

3.16 The project was classified as Environmental Category B and triggered the following
safeguards policies: OP4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OP4.09 on Pest Management,
and OP 4.37 on Forests. Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plans
were completed to ensure conformity with OP 4.01. Supervision reports indicate that the
identification, preparation and implementation of activities on the ground followed the
recommendations of the environmental management plan. The project’s completion report
notes that supervision of environmental safeguards was aided by the presence of both Bank
and FAO environmental specialists in supervision missions. No safeguard issues were
reported in the course of implementation and the IEG mission did not come across any issues
in the field.

Fiduciary Management and Procurement

3.17 The project completion report notes that financial management performance varied
over the course of the project due to the implementing agencies lack of experience with Bank
financial management procedures and human resource issues. Supervision reports indicate
that many problems related to FM staffing, organization, archiving and reporting improved
over the course of project implementation but internal controls were problematic throughout.
Audit reports were often delayed, their quality was uneven and some had qualifications. All
qualifications were resolved by project closure and the final audit, dated April 27 2012, was
unqualified.

3.18 Procurement performance was also mixed. The implementing agency’s inexperience
with Bank procurement procedures resulted in a slow pace of acquisitions and consulting
contracts. Procurement was also affected by conflicts between Bank and State procurement

10
   Data collected through participatory monitoring was reported to have been analyzed locally on a yearly basis and used to
update the overall micro-catchment plan but is not clear how much of this was passed on to the central project management
team for aggregation at the project level. This may be partly due to the fact that the two monitoring schemes were designed
for different purposed. The participatory monitoring was designed to play more of a role in local implementation whereas
the complete monitoring scheme was intended to provide an assessment of technical impacts of the project as a whole.
                                             17


norms, and the weak organization of procurement financial management functions and
human resource issues. The PIU was subsequently provided training and guidance by Bank
procurement specialists that resulted in the resolution of bottlenecks and acceleration of
procurement processing. The project completion report indicated that by project closure
procurement capacity met Bank standards.



4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1    Overall outputs at the farm level intended to contribute to each of the projects
global environment objectives are presented below followed by specific assessments of each
individual objective.


4.2     By project closure one Regional Micro-catchment Council (COREM) had been
created (100 percent of the appraisal target) which represented micro catchment and
municipal stakeholders at the regional level. 48 micro-catchment development committees
(COGEMs) were established in 48 micro catchments (exceeding the appraisal target of 40)
which represented stakeholders at the local level. 48 micro-catchment development plans
were prepared (120 percent of the appraisal target of 40), one for each COGEM. 1,292
Individual Farm Development Plans (PIDs) were prepared by members of the COGEM. (68
percent of the original target of 1,900 and 89 percent of the revised target of 1,450). The
targeted number of PIDs was revised downward in 2010 when it became apparent that due to
exchange rate changes there would not be a sufficient amount of Brazilian Reais to finance
the original target.

4.3     The project financed a total of 1,574 subprojects comprising activities identified in
the PIDs. The number of subprojects exceeds the total number of PIDs because some farmers
received financing for more than one subproject in their PID. Table 3 shows the distribution
of the 1,574 subprojects financed by the five lines of support. The outcomes from the
subprojects in turn were expected to contribute to the achievement of the project’s global
environment objectives. The project management teams in the Bank and the implementing
agency explained to IEG that the agriculture and land use practices promoted by the project
were drawn from a positive list of practices identified by the State agronomic research
institute (PESAGRO) as having potential to generate positive environmental impacts. The
selection of the activities was demand-driven. The State extension agency (EMATER)
worked with farmers to ensure the quality of their subproject proposals and that the new
practices had been fully adopted and implemented to the required quality standards.
                                               18



Table 3: Subprojects by Line of Support
           LINES OF SUPPORT                      Nº OF                     VALUE (R$)
                                              SUBPROJECTS
1. Recuperation of Degraded Areas                   238                    311,922.00
2. Use and Conservation of                          120                    250,058.75
Biodiversity
3. Water Resources Management                       329                    684,708.15
4. Re-orientation of Productive Systems             730                   2,082,324.90
to Sustainable Systems
5. Support for Commercialization of                 157                   1,274,209.50
Socio-environmental Products
Total                                               1,574                 4,603,223.30


Objective 1 address threats to biodiversity of global importance
Outputs

4.4     This objective was pursued by supporting sustainable land management activities,
consisting of what were considered to be sustainable agricultural practices and biodiversity
friendly approaches. It was expected that this would lead to an increase in native forest cover
in the project areas and enhanced ability of the agricultural landscape to support biodiversity.

4.5     The project completion report indicates that biodiversity friendly agricultural
practices were implemented on 31,650 hectares (just short of the appraisal target of 32,000),
by the time of the IEG assessment mission this number had increased to 33,810 hectares. The
increase reflects the fact that at the time of the writing of the project completion report the
final round of subprojects had been approved for finance but had not yet disbursed. IEG
interviews with the project management team indicate that this number was derived from
multiplying the number of individual property management plans that had been approved by
the average size of the area in which treatments occurred.

4.6     1,332 hectares of riparian and other native forests were reported to have been
rehabilitated for biodiversity conservation and hydrology stabilization objectives (just short
of the appraisal target of 1,400 hectares). This number represents the subset of activities
reported above which specifically aimed at forest rehabilitation (agroforestry, systems,
protection of springs, establishment of riparian forests). IEG interviews indicated that this
number represents the number of hectares that had been treated to enable the forest to
regenerate. It does not measure the extent to which regeneration actually occurred. The
typical practice entailed fencing of an area and allowing natural regeneration to take place. In
particularly degraded areas enrichment planting was carried out which involves planting
native species in addition to fencing.

4.7   The project also contributed to this objective through the establishment of land use
mosaics on private lands, aimed at enhancing connectivity between forest fragments. By
                                               19


project closure land use mosaics had been established on 792 hectares. This was done by
obtaining Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN) status for existing forest fragments, a
legal classification at the Federal level that maintains an area exclusively for conservation
purposes in perpetuity. In addition connectivity between RPPNs and other forests in the area
under protected status was enhanced through environmental practices that increase the tree
component which then act as stepping stones for many forest species to traverse the
agricultural landscape. Enhancing wildlife circulation helps in avoiding the isolation of
family groups, which can bring consanguineous problems and increase the risks of
extinction. The location for implementing these practices was determined by taking into
account an optimal distance from the existing forest fragments. The number of hectares
incorporated into land use mosaics was only 64 percent of the appraisal target. The number
was below expectations because the process of establishing reserves on private lands proved
to be a slower and more complex process than anticipated. The project was involved in
enabling the application of the RPPN program to some of the participating municipalities for
the first time.

4.8     An additional contribution to this objective was the project’s role in the passage of a
decree that obligates the State to financially support a Payment for Environmental Services
(PES) mechanism. Interviews indicate that the project’s results were instrumental in
convincing the State to approve this decree. Development of a PES program will provide
additional sources of revenue to landholders for providing environmental services in the
future. At the time of the assessment mission the PES mechanism was being piloted by the
Sao Joao River Basin Committee but was at incipient stages compared to more mature PES
programs in other countries, such as those in Costa Rica and Mexico which issue contracts
for landholders to maintain existing forest for four or five years duration. In contrast, the Sao
Joao program issues one time grants for activities such as planting native species or other
techniques that can lead to the generation of environmental services.

Outcomes

4.9     The performance indicators measured by the project are not sufficient to demonstrate
the achievement of this objective at the outcome level. The on-farm activities implemented
by the project in support of this objective were intended to result in the regeneration of forest
cover. However the project has only measured the area in which treatments were carried out,
not the actual extent of regeneration. And no other biodiversity outcomes were assessed.

4.10 There is some anecdotal evidence that regeneration is beginning to occur but no
systematic effort was made to quantify these results so it is not possible to determine the
extent to which such results are being achieved. Supervision reports and field visits by the
IEG mission found plots treated in varied stages of regeneration. The project completion
report also includes anecdotal references that recuperation of native vegetation and of local
biodiversity (in terms of greater species diversity) was observed in each of the 9 subprojects
monitored through participatory monitoring. Beneficiaries interviewed for the case studies on
the adoption of SLM practices reported that “the forest is growing and there are many new
seedlings.
                                                    20


4.11 The project management unit provided IEG with a monitoring report that utilized
high resolution satellite images to detect changes in vegetation cover, the extent of degraded
pasture, and soil erosion in the three micro-catchments that were monitored under the
complete monitoring plan. The images indicated an increase in areas in the initial to
moderate stages of regeneration. While it is plausible that the project investments contributed
to some of this, there is insufficient information to attribute this to the project because the
project intervention areas were not delineated. The project task team in the World Bank
clarified to IEG that these images were not used to assess the level of regeneration resulting
from project activities.


Table 4: Results of Analysis of changes in Land Use from Satellite Images
                       SANTA MARIA          CAIXA D/AGUA          BREJO DA COBICA
                        Year                 Year                   Year
Land Use            2001    2011   %     2004    2011    %     2001      2011     %
                   Ha.     Ha.   change Ha.     Ha.    change Ha.      Ha.      change
Forest
remnants in
primary state
or advanced
stage of
regeneration   186,98 185,18               -1    131,36 131,06   0     1.403,60 1.404,00     0
Forest
remnants in
initial/medium
stage of
regeneration   106,97 110,64               3,4   156,87 159,67   1,8    88,39    104,93     19
Degraded
Pasture        409,47 251,58               -39   44,11   12,25   -72   132,46    75,46      -43
Soil Erosion    11,32  7,02                -38    3,88    1,06   -73    6,51      2,20      -66
Source: Project Monitoring Report (Nov 2011)



4.12 Research on biodiversity in the project areas carried out through a partnership with
the State University of North Fluminense (UENF), identified the potential for conserving
biodiversity in the micro water sheds were the project was active. As noted in the discussion
of M&E implementation, this information expanded the knowledge base on biodiversity in
the project areas but it was less useful for demonstrating the outcomes of actual project
activities. Interviews with staff at the UENF, responsible for monitoring of biodiversity
indicators, indicate that insufficient time has passed to see an impact from project
intervention on the fauna in the project area. The project implementation team informed IEG
that the UENF team established an online database with funding from the project cataloguing
information on biodiversity in the Atlantic Forest Region and that this information has been
accessed by researchers interested in conservation of the region. They also note that the list
of species inventoried in forest fragments in the watersheds in which the project was active
have been of use to other actors who are attempting to create preservation areas or prepare
restoration projects. The biodiversity studies conducted by the UENF with project support
                                              21


were reported to have been utilized in the establishment of three protected areas in since
project closure.

4.13 In summary, due to the absence of systematic data on the actual degree of
regeneration or an alternative measure of biodiversity related outcomes resulting from the
adoption of improved agriculture practices and tool and information introduced by the project
it is not possible to judge the extent to which this objective has been achieved.

4.14   Overall achievement of the objective is rated modest.
                                              22


Objective 2 reverse land degradation in agricultural landscapes
Outputs

4.15 The biodiversity friendly agricultural practices, forest restoration and corridor outputs
reported above were also expected to contribute to reversal of land degradation in the project
areas.

Outcomes

4.16 There is no evidence that demonstrates that land degradation has been arrested or
reversed to the extent envisaged at appraisal. The key performance indicator selected to
demonstrate this objective was a 50 percent reduction in erosion and 50 percent reduction in
sedimentation in at least 3 micro-catchments. The project planned to measure this indicator
by monitoring sedimentation in downstream areas from where project interventions took
place. As discussed in para 3.13 it was not possible to measure impacts in this manner
because the monitoring equipment was installed too far away from where project activities
were implemented, creating difficulties in determining the source of any changes detected.
Moreover, monitoring soil impacts in this manner requires a higher concentration of
treatments. The project’s small scale and dispersed interventions required a different
monitoring approach to detect impacts.

4.17 EMBRAPA reported a reduction in the concentration of sediments in water runoff in
two of the three micro-catchments monitored but due to the measurement issues noted above
the information is not sufficient for determining the extent that reductions were due to project
interventions versus other factors. Data was not obtained in the third micro catchment due
because of damaged monitoring equipment. The micro-catchment of Santa Maria/Cambioco
showed a 7 percent reduction in the average values of sediment concentrations in suspension
and 8 percent in maximum concentrations of suspended sediments over the period 2009 to
2010. In the micro catchment Brejo da Cobiça there was a 26 percent reduction in the
average values of sedimentation concentration and 31 percent reduction in the maximum
sedimentation values from 2009 to 2011. However, this data should be viewed as preliminary
as a one to two year timeframe is extremely short to pick up a trend.

4.18 EMBRAPA staff reported to the IEG mission that based on results they have
observed in other projects implementing similar interventions, the project has potential to
improve soils and hydrology but they were unable to determine the impacts of the Rio
Rural/GEF project interventions as a whole due to measurement challenges. They confirmed
that soil parameters were monitored in a limited number of project areas which indicated that
pasture rotation has improved soil structure, reduced compacting of soil, reduced penetration
and improved soil porosity. But no changes were detected in the soil parameters of the other
project interventions. They noted that it is too early to detect an effect on soils from other
interventions that were monitored, such as the use of organic manure. The project
management team provided IEG with EMBRAPAs final report which detected an elevation
                                                           23


in some of the soil nutrients that were monitored but it was inconclusive for others and was
insufficient for concluding that land degradation had been reversed. 11

4.19 The project completion report notes that case studies were conducted at project
closure based on participatory monitoring to assess soil quality improvements under a sample
of six rotational grazing subprojects that suggests that some of the project interventions are
having a positive impact on soils. Organic material and nutrients in the surface layer of soil
were monitored over a three year period. The baseline, sampling methodology and depth at
which the samples were obtained was not reported. Some localized improvement in organic
matter and soil chemistry were detected: (i) increased organic material was found in four of
the six subprojects averaging 5.04 g/dm3 or 0.5% (the report does not explain whether there
was a decline, no change or if no data was available for the other two subprojects); and, (ii)
increased potassium and phosphorus was found in five of the six subprojects averaging 10.14
mg/ dm3 for phosphorus and 2.14 mmol/dm3 for potassium (the report does not explain what
change if any was found in the sixth subproject). The authors are candid in noting, however,
that these results cannot be extrapolated to other subprojects since each area has its own
unique soil characteristics and each subproject its own management system.

4.20 Data from the analysis of high resolution satellite images (table 4) showed a decrease
in erosion in the three catchments monitored. However, similar to the discussion of forest
cover data in para 4.11, while it is plausible that the project investments contributed to some
of this, there is insufficient information to assess the extent to which this is the case because
the areas where the project investments were carried out were not delineated.

4.21 To summarize, there is some evidence to suggest that a small subset of the project’s
interventions are starting to have a positive impact on soil nutrients, organic matter, and the
concentration of sedimentation but there is insufficient information to extrapolate to the
project areas as a whole and the available evidence detects an impact that is well below
appraisal expectations and targets.

4.22     Overall achievement of the objective is rated Modest.




11
   Physical and chemical aspects of soil quality were monitored in two watersheds at two depths. 0-20 cm and 20 to 40 cm.
Soil structure and four soil nutrients were measured: Potassium, Phosphorus, Calcium, Magnesium. The following results
were reported: Persimmon – increase in bulk density, increased penetration, increase in calcium and magnesium (no mention
of the other nutrients). Banana – no change physical properties, increase in calcium from (.7 mol/kg to 6.57 mol/kg) (no
mention of the other nutrients). Coffee – improved penetration, increased aggregation; no change in potassium or sodium,
slight increase in calcium and magnesium. Pineapple inter cropped with Cassava combined with organic fertilizer– detected
no effect on physical quality/ soil structure, decline in calcium and magnesium, increase in sodium and potassium. The
technician concluded there was a need to increase dosage of organic fertilizer. Rotational grazing - In one watershed
rotational grazing showed a reduction in soil compaction, greater aggregation and increase in all nutrients. In the other
watershed rotational grazing plots had a reduction in soil compaction, slight increase in magnesium and sodium and increase
in calcium. EMBRAPA concluded that although conditions of pasture were good at the baseline there was a marked
improvement in both physical and chemical properties of the soil.
                                                             24


Objective 3 enhance carbon sequestration
Outputs

4.23 According to the project appraisal document, the theory of change behind meeting
this objective was that protection of forest as well as the adoption of sustainable land
management practices (such as crop rotation, mulching and pasture rotation) would
contribute to the storage of carbon through an increase in above ground biomass and by
rebuilding the amount of soil carbon. A list of the specific outputs associated with this
objective was not reported.

Outcomes

4.24 The project appraisal document includes two different targets for carbon
sequestration. The key performance indicator was “1.5 tons of C02 per ha to be sequestered
by project year 5”, whereas the log frame matrix indicates “additional annual amount of CO2
sequestered in the project area by project year 5 = 34,000 tons.”

4.25 At project closure carbon sequestration estimates were reported for the areas in which
rotational grazing was carried out. 12 Farmers who received project support to establish
rotational grazing systems were also required to release part of their lands to forest
restoration, to protect springs and riparian strips. On average, for each hectare of rotational
grazing established, 1.5 ha are released for biodiversity conservation.

4.26    It was found that, on average, 80 tons of carbon/ha were sequestered in the soil and 5
tons/ha in the above ground vegetation in the pasture areas and an additional 28.2 tons/ha (on
average) were sequestered in soils in the areas that had been released for biodiversity
conservation. Resulting in an estimate of 28,515 tons of Co2 sequestration for the entire
intervention area covered by the 224 pasture rotation subprojects that were financed.

4.27 While the estimates of CO2 sequestered per hectare, both under improved pasture (80
tons/ha) and in areas released for biodiversity (28.2 tons/ha), exceed the projects target of 1.5
tons/ha, the total estimate of 28,515 tons of CO2 was 84 percent of the appraisal estimate
(34,000 tons). However, it is not clear how any of the estimates compare to the amount of

12
   Rotational pasture management involves fencing into smaller paddocks and usually includes improving pasture with more
productive forage species and the use of fertilizer. Cattle are confined to one area at a time and are moved in a rotation.
However fixed stocking without rotation can also apply improved pasture species and more intensive input use. The
assumption in project design was that rotational grazing would result in higher production, the recuperation of soils and
allow the utilization of a smaller area of land than a more extensive grazing system. The assumed positive impacts were
expected to arise from greater vegetative cover resulting from pasture recuperation combined with increased forage and
concentrated waste load leading to improved soil quality, less erosion, and less impact on water resources such as springs.
The global research evidence on the benefits of rotational versus fixed stocking is somewhat mixed. Pasture condition and
productivity results can be location-specific and may depend on farm size, rainfall, soils, type of livestock, and especially
management skills. Economics depends, among other things, on fencing and labor and management costs, the additional
costs of improved, usually fertilized, pasture and whether hay is cut. While much of the literature shows that rotational may
be somewhat more productive under good management and in intensive production systems, the net advantages in terms of
environmental impact and farm profitability would need assessment. In this project, to get assistance, farmers were expected
to give up 1.5 ha for land protection, particularly along streams and rivers and around springs and to gain assistance for 1.0
ha for fencing and more intensive rotational grazing.
                                                         25


carbon sequestered under the previous land uses because a baseline survey was not carried
out. Therefore it is not possible to assess if carbon sequestration has in fact been enhanced.
That said it is important to note that the absolute amount of carbon sequestered by all project
investments could potentially be higher as the calculation presented above only takes into
account a portion of the total subprojects financed.

4.28 The potential for the wider spectrum of project interventions to sequester carbon is
suggested through the estimates obtained by FAOs Ex-Ante Carbon Tool which was applied
to activities planned under the IBRD financed follow on project that is scaling up the
activities supported by the GEF project. The Ex-Ante Carbon-Balance Tool is a land based
accounting system that provides ex-ante measurements of the mitigation impact of
agriculture and forestry projects 13. The main output of the tool is an estimation of the carbon
balance associated with adoption of improved land management options, as compared with a
“business as usual” scenario. Results of applying the EX-ACT tool to the activities planned
under the follow on found that the project has the potential to contribute to carbon sink of
564,399 tons of CO2 after 20 years. Sensitivity analysis was also conducted to show the
potential total carbon balance of project activities (the net of activities that enhance carbon
sequestration and those that add to the release of carbon) under three scenarios: a pessimistic
scenario (assuming decreased average adoption rate) of 0.52 Mt/ ha, the optimistic scenario
(assuming increased adoption rate of improved livestock practices and additional mitigation
from rehabilitation of rural roads) 1.02 Mt/ha and most likely scenario 0.77 Mt/ha. The mean
was 0.85 Mt/ha.

4.29 To summarize, the project estimated the amount of carbon sequestered by a subset of
project interventions but in the absence of baseline data it is not possible to determine if this
is an enhancement over the amount of carbon in the project area prior to project intervention.

4.30      Overall achievement of the objective is rated modest.

Objective 4 increase awareness at all levels of the value of adopting an
Integrated Ecosystem Management approach to the management of
natural resources
Outputs

4.31 Training and Environmental Education. The project aimed to raise awareness of the
value of adopting an integrated ecosystem management approach through various channels.
The awareness of beneficiary land holders was expected to be raised in the course of
preparing land use plans, implementing subproject interventions and benefiting from the
results. Capacity building activities at the regional and watershed level were expected to raise
awareness among municipal officials, NGOs and other regional stakeholders who participate
in the COGEMs and COREMS. Environmental Education activities were aimed at raising
awareness of the broader community.


13
  The tool used the IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, complemented by other existing
methodologies and reviews of default coefficients.
                                                             26


•         Training was provided to 370 technicians to improve their managerial and technical
          capacity to manage resources adequately and communicate such messages to micro-
          catchment residents. 2,600 members of micro catchment communities participated in
          environmental education activities. Training and environmental awareness building
          activities were also conducted with 5,730 members of the wider regional community.

•         Environmental education programs were conducted at twenty local schools (80
          percent of the appraisal target of 25 schools).

4.32 Dissemination and Outreach. The project completion report also notes that
consistent and intensive efforts were made to explain and disseminate the project and its
emerging results and lessons to the wider public through numerous events, forums and media
materials:

•         Twenty dissemination workshops were conducted at the regional level (67 percent of
          the appraisal target of 30 workshops) and four workshops were conducted at the
          national level (100 percent of the appraisal target).

•         Four media campaigns were carried out (exceeding the appraisal target of 3
          campaigns).

•         1,204 articles were published in newspapers and online media.

•         184,000 copies of the Rio Rural newspaper (27 editions) were printed.

•         Two primers and one book on NNWF´s Atlantic Forest biodiversity richness, main
          threats and conservation strategies were published.

4.33 A Project Portal (webpage) www.microbacias.rj.gov.br was also established which
contains a large amount of content on the project and the findings and results of studies in the
project areas. The project completion report notes that by closure there were 2,720 monthly
visits to the portal (mean 6 months; previous: 1.780). IEG was provided with additional
information that shows that access to the RIO Rural website increased by 60.5% during 2012,
and was split between returning new visitors and returning visitors. 14

Outcomes

4.34 There is insufficient information to assess the extent to which awareness of the value
of adopting an IEM approach was actually increased as a result of the projects dissemination
and information raising efforts. The objective was vaguely worded so it is not clear precisely
whose awareness the project intended to increase of what result or behavior change the
project intended to achieve by doing so, the key performance indicators selected for this


14
  Portal Access was tracked by Google Analytics and linking of data from CMS. The profile of registered users of the
portal showed that: 23% extensionists, 23% public server, 12% rural producers, 10% students, 9% fishermen, 7% media,
4% tertiary sector, 3% private sector, 9% other. The project team also noted that they tracked which articles were accessed
most frequently.
                                                           27


objective are outputs that do not measure results at an outcome level15. The project
completion report stated that stakeholders reported that project capacity-building initiatives
were useful and rewarding, improving their understanding of the project approach integrating
economic, environmental and social concerns but no evidence was provided to substantiate
this claim. IEG interviews with the project implementation team indicated that while the
team monitored the distribution and access of information, they did not track how the
information was being utilized.

4.35 The project task team in the World Bank indicated the main groups targeted for this
objective were: (a) small- and medium-sized farmers and community leaders in 40 pilot
micro-catchments (about 4,000 beneficiaries), organized through their representatives bodies
(the Micro-catchment Management Committees, COGEM); (b) project executors in the State
Government agencies involved in the sector (including, in particular, SEAPEC, EMATER,
PESAGRO); (c) municipal level institutions (the Municipal Rural Development Councils);
and (d) schools.

4.36 At the community level, the number of Micro-catchment Management Committees
(COGEMs) created exceeded the project's target (48 COGEMs, or 120 percent of the target).
Each COGEM prepared and subsequently implemented, in a demand-driven, participatory
manner, Micro-catchment Development Plans (PEM) including the adoption of the integrated
ecosystem management practices supported by the project. 2,254 farmers in those 48
COGEMs have adopted on a demand-driven basis the improved land and water management
practices promoted by the project (exceeding the project target by 119%). The implementing
agency has continued to monitor the functioning of the 48 COGEMs under a follow on
operation and found continued improvement of the functioning of the COGEMs. The World
Bank team also reports that there has been a continued demand in those 48 micro-catchments
for new subprojects dedicated to the adoption of the sustainable land management practices
promoted under the project by participants active in the ongoing follow on project.

4.37 The World Bank Task team expressed to IEG their view that such achievements
demonstrate that the project has increased farmers awareness of the value of adopting an IEM
approach. It should be noted, however, that the establishment of COGEMs and the
preparation of micro-catchment development plans were project requisites for obtaining
project financing and technical support. While the information presented above demonstrates
farmers' interest in participating in the project and that their organizational capacity has been
enhanced, no evidence has been provided to demonstrate that participation in project
activities has resulted from farmers' enhanced awareness of the value of adopting an IEM
approach versus other factors.

4.38 Accounts from the beneficiary workshops carried out at project closure present a
mixed picture of the extent to which awareness of environmental issues in general has been
increased at the community level. The project completion report notes that during the
beneficiary workshop COGEM members described their understanding of the benefits

15
  The indicators were: 40 rural community organizations created that have adopted and implemented IEM strategies in 40
micro-catchments (by PY 4); Education and training of beneficiary stakeholders (1,900 by PY5), project executors (150 by
PY5), and schools (25 by PY5); and, Best practices and lessons learned disseminated through workshops, events and media
campaigns in the NNWF region.
                                                    28


resulting from project investments and that 40 percent of the COGEMs stated that
environmental awareness did not exist prior to the project. The completion report does not
explain the response of the remaining 60 percent of COGEMs. Mixed views were expressed
with respect to the level of farmer engagement and buy-in of the project's environmental
goals: "Farmers in many micro-catchments had grasped the importance and urgency of the
project's environmental goals more broadly, while in others, farmers' still-fragile engagement
was evident."

4.39 At the level of schools, the World Bank project team reported to IEG that awareness
raising activities carried out by the project has resulted in a request from schools for further
support for the actual implementation of environmental education activities. In response, the
follow-up Rio Rural IBRD project has introduced a new category of subprojects for
Environmental Education that supports activities aimed at providing students with direct
experience in the implementation of IEM practices and demonstrating the benefits of such
practices. No evidence has been provided, however, to demonstrate that the schools demand
for funding for environmental education activities has been brought about by virtue of the
project having enhanced their awareness of the importance of adopting the IEM approach. It
is equally plausible that the schools were well aware of the value of IEM prior to the project
but merely lacked the funding to implement such activities.

4.40 There is some anecdotal evidence that suggests that the project has been instrumental
at raising awareness of the value of the IEM approach among municipal and state level
institutions. The project completion report notes that during the beneficiary workshop held at
the end of the project 84 percent of the participating municipalities reported that
environmental awareness, though not specifically the IEM approach, has increased as a result
of the project. The project implementation agency team reported to IEG that the project has
increased the awareness of micro-catchment management approach at the municipal and state
level and that this has been enhanced by virtue of working in partnership with farmers,
government agencies and NGOs. They note that prior to the project there was no organized
discussion of micro-catchment management issues at the municipal and State levels. The
project completion report argues the following actions and policy changes are indicative of
the State Government's awareness of the value of the IEM approach. The State Government's
approval of the Rio Rural/IBRD operation that scales up the activities piloted under the GEF
project to a state wide operation. 16 The State enacted by Decree and established a Payment
for Environmental Services (PES) mechanism, as a direct outcome of project supported
activities, and as a joint initiative of Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretariat for
Environment. The project completion report argues that this is a significant policy change for
the State of Rio de Janeiro and demonstrates a new understanding, at the level of government
institutions, of the role of agricultural producers as stewards of natural resources in
production landscapes. The World Bank project team also reported to IEG that the State
Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock has further established the approach and institutions
created under the Rio Rural as a platform for coordinating all other agricultural support
programs executed by the State. But no evidence was provided to substantiate this statement.


16
  The IBRD loan amount is US$139,5 million (original loan and additional financing) and is backed by
counterpart resources of US$79.5 million.
                                               29


4.41 Due to the lack of documented evidence of outcome level achievements at all levels,
the overall achievement of the objective is rated modest.



5. Efficiency
5.1     A formal calculation of economic efficiency was not conducted at appraisal. At
project closure a cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the four most frequently selected
on-farm investments and found that the rate of return on such investments was positive.
Though it is not known how the return on project activities compares to the returns of
competing land uses. Rotational grazing yielded an IRR of 59% and its profitability ranged
from R$ 0.11 to R$ 0.48 per Real invested. Poultry kits yielded an IRR of 26% and its
profitability ranged from R$ 0.52 to R$ 0.84 for each Real invested. Beekeeping subprojects
resulted in an IRR of 33% and its profitability ranged from R$ 0.50 to R$ 0.90 per Real
invested. The fourth subproject type was the protection of water sources or springs. The
economic efficiency of this type of investment was calculated by assessing the indirect
economic benefits from utilizing the increased availability of water for irrigated pineapples
and pasture. In the case of irrigated pineapple cultivation, the project found that farmers were
able to increase the irrigation period on one hectare, leading to a 12 percent increase in
production. This resulted in a return of R$0.77 per Real invested. For pasture, the project
calculated the expected returns from irrigating pasture in the future compared with actual
production without irrigation. This calculation assumed an increase of 5,300 liters of milk
and 1.5 arrobas of meat per year, generating a return of R$ 1.40 per Real invested. These
calculations were based on data collected from a sample of 14 farmers who had information
available from the participatory monitoring exercise.

5.2     In addition to financial returns, each of these practices has potential environmental
benefits, though documented evidence of this is limited. The project completion report notes
that rotational grazing yielded a 66.6% increase in organic material for the subprojects
monitored by participatory methods, with an average increase of 5.04 g/dm3 or 0.5%. To
enhance the environmental returns from production oriented subprojects, such as rotational
grazing and apiculture, farmers receiving support for such interventions were required to
release a portion of their land for biodiversity conservation. For rotational grazing 1.5
hectares were released and 2 hectares were released for apiculture. Rustic poultry kits that
were monitored were estimated to have generated an annual production of 2,475 tons of
organic fertilizer, which is reported to have decreased the application of chemical fertilizers.
Participatory monitoring and anecdotal reports to the IEG mission indicate that water source
protection has resulted in the increases availability of water improvement in water quality.

5.3     The project’s appraisal document indicates that several cost effectiveness
considerations were taken into account in the project’s design by integrating project activities
with complementary ongoing public and private efforts such as those that supply technical
assistance and distributing the target number of pilot micro-catchments in a manner that
maximized the representation of the diversity found within the five intervention watersheds.
The following cost effectiveness criteria were also taken into account in approving
subprojects for financing: the degree to which on-farm structures needed to be changed; low
                                              30


labor requirements; low requirements for the acquisition of external inputs; little need for
sophisticated equipment, and the use of low cost, easily learned and applied technologies;
and, the subprojects potential for replication and sustainability.

5.4     The project completion report also suggests that there were efficiency gains from
working through partnerships in terms of avoiding duplication of efforts, sharing costs and
expanding the project’s reach beyond what it could do on its own. However, it is not clear
how the benefits leveraged by working in partnership compare to the costs of coordinating
such partnerships. The project completion report indicates that coordination costs associated
with the large number agencies with own priorities and procedures was exacerbated by the
absence of formal agreements between agencies but neither costs nor the benefits were
quantified.

5.5     Total project costs in dollar terms exceeded the appraisal estimates by 23 percent but
project funds were disbursed in Brazilian Reais and there were fewer Reais available than
anticipated owing to changes in the exchange rate. The total number of subprojects financed
was less than planned in part due to the exchange rate changes and because the average cost
of subprojects was higher than anticipated. It should be noted that the higher than anticipated
subproject costs was due to inaccurate initial estimates rather than actual over-runs.

5.6     The rating for efficiency also takes into account efficiencies and inefficiencies in
project management. There was a three year delay in the start of many project activities as
result of the change in government administration and longer than anticipated time to
mobilize institutional partnerships. The project overcame these initial implementation delays
and ended up disbursing all of its funds by the end of a one year extension. However,
inefficiencies occurred due to the fact that the release of counterpart funds was not in synch
with the agricultural calendar. According to the project completion report, the erratic release
of funds affected farmers land management decisions.

5.7    Overall efficiency of the project is rated Substantial.



6. Ratings
Outcome
6.1     The project’s objectives were substantially relevant to country conditions at the time
of appraisal, and to the Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy. The relevance of design
in meeting the objectives as stated was modest. While many activities included in design
were relevant to achieving the project’s objectives, the broadly stated Global Environment
Objectives were overambitious with respect to the scale of project activities and its
timeframe. Achievement of the project global environment objectives was modest due to
insufficient evidence of outcome level achievements. Efficiency was substantial. Economic
analysis shows that the benefits generated by the most frequently demanded subprojects
exceeded their costs. There were some inefficiencies in the management of project funds
including a three year delay in the start of field activities but the project was able to
                                                          31


overcome this and disbursed all of its funds by project closure. Taking into account the
substantial relevance of objectives but modest relevance of design, modest efficacy and
substantial efficiency ratings, the overall outcome rating of the project is moderately
unsatisfactory.

Risk to Development Outcome
6.2     The principal risk to the project’s on-farm investments is that farmers will discontinue
the land use practices adopted under the project but several factors moderate this risk.
Economic analysis carried out for the project completion report indicated that those four
interventions supported by the project and analyzed were profitable, though it is not known
how the return on project activities compares with the returns of competing land uses. IEG
interviews with the project management team suggest that maintenance requirements are
minimal. For example, the main activities required to maintain areas that were isolated for
biodiversity purposes are to maintain fencing, maintain any enrichment plantings by
monitoring and controlling for ants and weeding until trees are tall enough to shade out the
grasses, and create firebreaks of 3 meters in width.

6.3     IEG interviews and the project completion report also indicate that beneficiary
farmers received tailored training from the project’s technical executors to implement and
maintain their investments. Operation and maintenance was a standard element the training
and technical assistance provided on the implementation of sustainable land management
practices. Farmers received four years of technical support from project technicians
following the release of financing to implement their subprojects. During this time
technicians visited every six months to assess implementation progress and provide
recommendations on adjustments to improve the intended results. The project completion
report notes that supervision and participatory monitoring reports routinely discussed
operation and maintenance progress and performance. A follow on IBRD financed project is
ongoing and continues to work in the same areas with the same COGEM’s, providing an
opportunity to further strengthen the farmers capacity to adopt and maintain sustainable
management practices.

6.4     The Rio Rural Program has also launched an environmental awareness campaign to
promote spring protection under the slogan “Clean Water For the 2016 Olympics”. The
campaign encourages farmers to protect springs on their property and register them with the
Rio Rural program. The registered springs are then monitored using Google imaging tools. 17
All of the spring protection subprojects supported by the project have been registered and the
implementing agency reported to IEG that all were intact at the time of the assessment
mission.

6.5   Farmers reported anecdotally to both the Project Completion Report authors and the
IEG mission that they are interested in maintaining the techniques they adopted and

17
   The project team informed IEG that 349 springs were protected with support of the GEF project. At the time of the
assessment mission 635 springs were under protection, 24 were supported by Rio Rural (IBRD loan) incentives and 262 by
farmer's own funds. The results of the campaign can be viewed on the Rio Rural Website:
http://www.microbacias.rj.gov.br/campanha_rio_olimpico.jsp
                                                              32


replicating additional techniques. Interviews conducted as part of the project completion
report analysis found that 70 percent of farmers interviewed intended to continue
implementing the practices that they had adopted under the project. IEG interviews with the
implementation staff also provided anecdotal reports that during project implementation
some farmers had begun replicating some techniques introduced by the project with their
own resources. There was particular interest in techniques such as rotational grazing and the
protection of springs that had yielded tangible benefits to farmers in a relatively short period.
The implementing agency also provided IEG with additional information to show that the
process of forming a mosaic of protected areas has continued. Since the project’s closure
three additional preservation areas have been established in the watersheds in which the
project was active.

6.6      There are multiple sources of financial support potentially available to farmers to help
them expand adoption sustainable practices. 18 The project management team, co-financing
entities and other stakeholders interviewed by IEG expressed the view that the fact that
participating farmers now have individual property management plans can facilitate farmer’s
access to these funds. The State’s payment for environmental services program, discussed in
4.8, is expected to generate an additional source of financing for the adoption and
maintenance of practices that lead to environmental services.

6.7     The policy environment is also more conducive to promoting sustainable land
management practices than it was at the project’s start. In recent years Brazil has stepped up
efforts at enforcement of environmental legislation. National environmental legislation now
requires landowners to register their property in a rural environmental registry and comply
with the provisions of the forest code within five years. Failure to comply will make
landowners ineligible for state credit and other forms of government support. Once all of the
country's rural properties are registered in the system, in theory, Brazil's government will be
able to (a) more easily identify and track illegal deforestation through satellite monitoring,
and (b) develop land use plans, creating alternatives for farmers and ranchers thereby
contributing to the protection of land and waters. Failure to comply will make landowners
ineligible for state credit and other forms of government support, including agricultural credit
which many small farmers in the region access. The registry represents a significant step
forward in enforcing compliance with environmental legislation and may ensure that project
interventions such as the protection of springs and restoration of riparian areas will be
maintained. 19

6.8      The project also supported an innovation to increase compliance with environmental
legislation through a partnership with the public defender’s office to educate communities on

18
   The National School Feeding Programme and the National Food Purchase Programme, obligate school feeding programs
to source food that is produced locally under sustainable practices and both are active in the project area. Brazilian Law also
requires that corporations’ environmental impacts of infrastructure projects are compensated with environmentally friendly
practices. Many private companies have corporate social programs to finance environmentally friendly activities on private
lands in order to comply with the legislation.
19
   The forest code requires 20 percent of farms to be forested. Spring heads and areas within 15 meters of rivers and streams
are considered to be legally protected as Permanent Preservation Areas - land that must be set aside with the exclusive goal
of conserving biodiversity and ecosystem services for society at large, and cannot be used for direct economic benefit by
land owners.
                                                            33


what is required per environmental legislation. Communities then had the option to
voluntarily develop specific actions that they could do to ensure greater implementation of
the legislation within their communities. Once agreed these “Statutes of Community
Conduct” became legally binding. By project closure ten community codes of conduct were
signed. The number had increased to 16 by the time of the IEG assessment mission.

6.9      There are several risks to the institutional gains achieved by the project. Rio Rural is a
state program and its importance to government was signaled during project implementation
by its identification as a key mechanism for implementing the State’s Rural Development
Strategy. However, to date World Bank projects (the GEF project under assessment, the
follow on IBRD project and additional financing) have played an important role in financing
the Rio Rural Program. It is not clear to what extent State resources will cover Rio Rural’s
budgetary needs once the Bank funding ends.

6.10 That said there is some interest at the national level in replicating the model the
project supports, which could potentially lead to further resourcing in the future. The IEG
mission met with the Secretariat for Strategic Affairs in the President’s office, which has
indicated its interest in potentially building the Rio Rural model into a program that can be
replicated in other states. They expressed interest in the programs potential to protect the
environment, raise incomes and keep families in the area (preventing rural exodus). They
noted that at this stage the actual impact on poverty and environment is unknown but they are
engaging with the IBRD follow up project to conduct an impact evaluation over the next five
years to determine the project’s actual impact 20. At the time of the assessment mission they
were in the process of collecting baseline data.

6.11 The ability of the program to implement farm level activities is at some risk due to the
high turnover of EMATER staff. While EMATER’s capacity was enhanced to some extent
during project implementation through restructuring and expanding the total number of
technicians hired, turnover of extension staff remains a significant problem. IEG interviews
indicate that low wages of technicians are a significant factor. During the IEG assessment
mission EMATER technicians were on the verge of strike due to the fact that they have not
received a wage increase in 10 years.

6.12     There is also a need to strengthen multi-institutional collaboration and to mainstream
the project’s methodologies into other programs. The project was designed to complement
activities from ongoing programs in the sector and region, and leverage their co-financing.
This was partly intended to enhance the sustainability of project gains. As noted in the
discussion of implementation experience, the extent to which co-financing entities adopted
project mechanisms was uneven. The project completion report notes that the informal nature
of inter institutional collaboration is a potential risk.




20
   The Office of Strategic Issues of the Federal Government (SAE) is a department in the President’s office devoted to
conducting policy research to formulate public policies aimed at long-term national development. At the time of the
assessment mission they had submitted a proposal to 3ie for additional resources to finance the impact evaluation.
                                                 34


6.13 Finally the program has relied on very strong individuals in its leadership team within
a weak but evolving institutional environment and is at risk in the event that the leadership is
disbanded. The project completion report notes this is common in many states in Brazil.

6.14 The ongoing IBRD project aims to further strengthen the Rio Rural program and is
specifically attempting to address each of the institutional risks noted here.

6.15    The risk to development outcome is rated Moderate.

Bank Performance
Quality at Entry

6.16 The project was prepared on the basis of solid technical analysis. Project preparation
drew on decades of Bank experience addressing land degradation in other states in Southern
Brazil through micro-watershed development projects. Lessons from earlier projects that
were reflected in the project deign were: (1) the use of the micro-catchment as the unit of
planning to enhance biophysical impact of interventions and facilitate the organization of
farmers; (2) a focus on technologies that can bring early benefits to farmers; (3) integrating
project activities with other development efforts to enhance impact and sustainability; and,
(4) providing extensive training approached to public sector extension staff in participatory
approaches. Socio-economic and environmental diagnostic studies were also conducted
during preparation to identify bottlenecks to changing land management practices. The
project appraisal document identified many of the key risks to project success and set forth
adequate mitigation measures.

6.17 However, project design did not match the overambitious objectives and the
institutional analysis carried out at appraisal was insufficient. Project design was complex
and required a high degree of institutional coordination but the capacity of the implementing
agency was not sufficiently assessed and the roles and responsibilities of the other
implementation partners were insufficiently spelled out, contributing to implementation
problems later. The project’s complexity was not identified as a risk at appraisal and the
challenges the many implementing partners faced in understanding the project’s overall
concept and its implementation methodologies were not anticipated. The project’s M&E
framework was also weak.

6.18 Overall the Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

Quality of Supervision

6.19 Supervision reports indicate that the project required intensive supervision 21 due to
the many implementation challenges it faced. There was an initial period when supervision

21
 In 2006, when project implementation began, internal supervision reports called for a greater degree
of supervision than typically required, at least three one week missions a year with the entire
supervision team present at the same time to maximize synergies.
                                                  35


missions were not as frequent as needed. Subsequently missions were frequent and fielded by
teams with an appropriate skill mix. Project supervision overlapped with the preparation of a
follow on operation that was to be managed by the same implementation team. This
contributed to greater interaction between the Bank and the project management unit. The
project had a total of four task team leaders but one individual was in place for the majority
of the project implementation period, aiding continuity of supervision. During supervision
the Bank team worked closely with the project management unit to improve financial
management and procurement performance. Supervision reports indicate that financial
management supervision was intensive throughout implementation, in particular during the
initial years when problems were greatest. The Bank provided training to resolve bottlenecks
and was effective at accelerating procurement. Internal supervision reports also indicate that
the Bank was proactive in helping the implementing agency address organizational and
technical issues that arose. Safeguards were adequately supervised by a team of Bank and
FAO environmental specialists. Finally, the Bank demonstrated flexibility in extending the
closing date to provide space for meeting output targets in light of the disruptions to
implementation in the first three years.

6.20 There were some shortcomings in supervision. Supervision reports indicate that
progress ratings were overoptimistic in the initial years of implementation when
disbursements and achievements were low and the extent of documentation of missions was
uneven. Some targets were overly ambitious and were not revised. By 2009, when the
project’s field activities were ready to begin, there were fewer Brazilian Reals available than
planned due to exchange rate changes. In addition once implementation began the team
discovered that the costs per sub-project were higher than estimated. These factors limited
the total number of sub-projects that the project could finance. The project completion report
indicates the target for the number of individual farm plans was reduced from 1,900 to 1,450
but the resulting outcome targets, such as the number of hectares in which biodiversity
friendly activities were carried out, were not revised. In addition the flaws in the M&E
framework were not sufficiently addressed during supervision.

6.21    The Bank’s performance in supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.

6.22 Taking into account the ratings for quality at entry and supervision, as well as the
overall outcome rating 22, the overall Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance
Government Performance

6.23 The government demonstrated a high level of ownership and commitment to the
project by taking the lead on preparation activities and financing them before GEF funds
became available, keeping the project management team intact despite changes in
government administration in 2006, providing a higher amount of overall counterpart

22
  IEG OPCS harmonized rating criteria indicates that when one dimension of Bank performance is
the satisfactory range and the other in the unsatisfactory range, the overall Bank performance rating is
determined by the outcome rating.
                                                36


contributions than anticipated at appraisal 23 and leveraging additional financing from
implementation partners. Following the change in government administration in 2006 there
was a period when political commitment to the project waned as the new government
familiarized itself with the goals of the project, but project supervision reports indicate that
once the project was adopted as part of the incoming government’s own policy critical
project support was provided for the remainder of the implementation period. The
government supported project implementation through its support of the central-regional
project structure and efforts to improve the counterpart funding situation. It also took steps to
resolve the bottleneck in available technical personnel by authorizing a public bidding
process to contract new technical executors for EMATER/Rio. In addition the government
contributed to an improved enabling environment for the project goals by passing legislation
to enable payment for environmental services. Moreover, the government expressed its
continued support for the project goals by supporting a follow on operation with a request for
financial support through an IBRD loan.

6.24 The key shortcoming in government performance was the delayed release of
counterpart commitments during the first three years of implementation due to the state’s
constrained fiscal space and the transition between government administrations. Government
performance also could have been stronger in terms of providing greater political pressure to
foster more effective engagement of state institutions as implementation partners.

6.25   Government Performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

Implementing Agency Performance

6.26      The implementing agency was highly committed throughout project preparation and
implementation and in the preparation of the follow on project. Project supervision reports
indicate that the project management team consistently sought out measures to keep the
project moving in the face of the various implementation challenges. The team was proactive
in introducing bunched training sessions of shorter duration when the training activities
originally planned were found to be “protracted, duplicative and linear”. It worked with Bank
specialist to improve its procurement and financial management performance, which was
initially uneven due to lack of experience with World Bank procedures. Supervision reports
found satisfactory safeguards performance throughout project implementation. The main
shortcoming in the implementing agencies performance was the weaknesses in the project’s
M&E system.

6.27   The Implementing Agency’s Performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6.28 Taking into account the ratings for government and implementing agency
performance, the overall Borrower Performance is rated moderately satisfactory.


23
   The State contribution was USD 2.7 million less than the appraisal estimate, due to the State’s
constrained fiscal environment, but the Federal Government contributed USD 3.7 million more than
its appraisal estimate. The combined government counterpart contribution was 13 percent higher than
what had been planned at appraisal.
                                              37


Monitoring and Evaluation
6.29 Design. A comprehensive plan for monitoring and evaluation was outlined at
appraisal comprising a two tiered monitoring approach. Complete monitoring of technical
outcomes would be carried out in three select micro-catchments and participatory monitoring
would be carried out with farmers in all of the beneficiary micro-catchments. Output and
outcome indicators were identified but there was inconsistency in targets specified within and
between different project documents. This led to confusion over the meaning of several
indicators and their targets and what should be measured. The project also had social impact
indicators that proved to be overly ambitious to monitor and of limited utility and were
dropped during implementation.

6.30 Implementation. The complete monitoring plan was costly to implement and less
useful than anticipated. Monitoring of soil and hydrology indicators was compromised by the
positioning of monitoring stations in relation to intervention areas and scale of the
intervention area and the failure to bring on board the technical agency charged with
implementing this aspect of the monitoring plan during the design stage. The project also
experienced difficulties with the collection of data from various implementation partner
organizations. Participatory monitoring was cost effective and no significant implementation
issues were reported.

6.31 Utilization. M&E was used as a tool to evaluate status of activities throughout
implementation but was less useful in demonstrating the full scale of project results. The lack
of access to co-financers’ data bases caused problems with ex-post evaluation. Participatory
monitoring generated information that was used by project participants and important for the
economic analysis prepared at project closure but this information was not consistently
disseminated to others so it not as useful at mobilizing the participation of other micro-
catchment members as had been envisaged at appraisal. Greater use could have been made of
the information collected through participatory monitoring to fill gaps in knowledge on the
projects results that were not detected through the more comprehensive monitoring scheme.

6.32   Overall, the quality of M&E is rated modest.



7. Lessons
7.1    The project experience yields the following lessons:

7.2     Working through multiple institutional players can enhance policy and operational
outcomes but it requires that mechanisms are developed upfront to formalize institutional
partnerships with well-defined roles and responsibilities and common targets. In this case,
the project worked with twelve partner agencies and leveraged additional co-financing from a
host of entities that were implementing their own programs in the project areas. While the
partner agencies signed agreements with the Ministry of Agriculture, the agreements lacked
sufficient details on each partner’s roles and obligations. Commitments depended on
individual relationships. As a result there was uneven engagement across agencies, with
                                               38


some agencies following their own modus operandi and objectives. The benefits intended to
be leveraged through co-financing were compromised to some extent because the activities
financed by Rio Rural/GEF and those of co-financed programs essentially ran in parallel. The
co-financiers were not obligated to use the organizational or financial instruments developed
by the project to empower farmers and guide their investment planning. In addition co-
financiers were not obliged to share their project data with the project management unit.

7.3     Demonstrating achievement of objectives that require scientific measurement can
be compromised if technically competent entities are not brought in at the design stage. In
this case the plan for monitoring biophysical impacts of the project was designed by an
externally contracted firm and the technical agency responsible for the actual monitoring,
was not brought on board until after project preparation phase, at too late of a stage to design
an alternative plan. Some indictors could not be measured because of flaws in the placement
of monitoring stations. Other impacts could not be demonstrated because of insufficient
information in the baseline survey.

7.4      Formulation of global environment objectives should take into account the project
time frame and available resources. In this case the project's official objectives were stated
in terms of ambitious global environment objectives. But the project was designed largely as
a pilot to lay the foundation for a larger program to be scaled up in the future; on farm
investments were implemented on a pilot scale more suitable for demonstration purposes
than for achieving the ambitious impact implied by the objectives statement.
                                                   39


References
EMBRAPA. 2012. RELATÓRIO TÉCNICO FINAL DO MONITORAMENTO DETALHADO DO MEIO
     FÍSICO EM TRÊS MICROBACIAS DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO, NO ÂMBITO DO
     PROJETO RIO RURAL GEF
FAO. 2010. Estimating Mitigation Potential of Agricultural Proejcts: An Application of the Ex-Ante
       Carbon –balance Tool (EX-ACT) in Brazil
Global Environment Facility. 2003. Project Executive Summary GEF Council Work Program Submission
Rio Rural. 2011. Comparacao de Produtivade das pastagens SOB Dois Sistemas De Pasoreio Rotativo
Riro Rural. 2012. Relatorio de Concusao do Mutuario
Rio Rural. 2012a Relatorio de Atividades Campanha Agua Limpa
World Bank. 2003. Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2007 for the Federative Republic of Brazil in
       Support of a More Equitable, Sustainable, and Competitive Brazil. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 2005. Project Appraisal Document. Rio De Janeiro Sustainable Ecosystem Management in
       Production Landscapes of the North-Northwestern Fluminense (GEF) Project Report No: 32 150-
       BR
World Bank. 2008. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance
       Corporation Country Partnership Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil for the Period
       FY2008-2011. Washington, DC: World Bank. Report # 42677
World Bank. 2011. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance
       Corporation Country Partnership Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil for the Period
       FY2012-2015. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 2012. Implementation and Results Report State of Rio De Janeiro Sustainable Ecosystem
       Management in Production Landscapes of the North-Northwestern Fluminense (GEF) Project
       Report No: ICR1992
                                                41                                       ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
RIO DE JANEIRO SUSTAINABLE INTEGRATED ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT IN
PRODUCTION LANDSCAPES OF NORTH-NORTHWESTERN FLUMINESE
PROJECT (TF-54999)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                              Appraisal         Actual or         Actual as % of
                                              estimate       current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            14.95              18.31                 123
Loan amount                                     6.75              6.50                  96
Cofinancing                                     NA                3.04                  NA
Cancellation                                    NA                0.25                  NA

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                        FY05        FY06             FY07       FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12
Appraisal estimate        --         1.49            3.18       4.76     6.14   6.75    --      --
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)             --         0.66            0.82       1.70     2.59   4.55   5.69    6.50
Actual as % of                           44            26        36      42     67      84      96
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: 03/01/2012


Project Dates
                                                   Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                             05/30/2003                     07/24/2003
Negotiations                                      04/11/2005                     04/13/2005
Board approval                                     05/31/2005                    05/31/2005
Signing                                                 NA                       06/30/3005
Effectiveness                                         NA                         12/30/2005
Closing date                                       11/30/2010                    11/30/2011
ANNEX A                                         42


Task Team members
        Names                           Title               Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Alvaro Soler              Agricultural Economist           LCSER      Task Team Leader
                                                                      (from 07/2003)
Graciela Lituma           Consultant)                      LCSER      Task Team Leader
                                                                      (to 07/2003
Maria Isabel Braga        Environmental Specialist         LCSEN      Environment
Judith Lisansky           Sr. Anthropologist               LCSEO      Social Assessment
Claudio Mittelstaedt      Financial management             LCOAA      Fin. Management
                          Specialist
Emilio Rodriguez          Procurement Specialist           LCOPR      Procurement
Keiko Ashida              Operations Analyst               LCSES      Operations
Susana Amaral             Financial Management and         LOAG3      FM/Disbursement
                          Disbursement
Katia Medeiros            Sr. Environmental Specialist      FAO       Environment
Nestor Bragagnolo         Micro-catchment Spec. (Cons)     FAO/CP
Francisco Guimaraes       Rural Economist (Cons)           FAO/CP
Waldir Pan                Agronomist (Cons)                FAO/CP
Marta Irving              Env. Education Specialist        FAO/CP
                          (Cons)
Arthur Sofiatti           Historian/Ecologist (Cons)       FAO/CP
Dana Frye                 Junior Professional Associate    LCSER      Operations
Supervision/ICR
Maria Isabel Junqueira    Sr Environmental Specialist      AFTEN
Braga
Nestor Bragagnolo         Consultant                       LCSAR
Joao Vicente Novaes       Financial Management             LCSFM
Campos                    Specialist
Matthew Cummins           Junior Professional Associate    LCSAR
Nicolas Drossos           Consultant                       LCSFM
Judith M. Lisansky        Sr Anthropologist                LCSSO
Graciela Lituma           Consultant                       LCSAR
Katia Lucia Medeiros      Environmental Management         FAO/CP
                          Specialist
Claudio Mittelstaedt      Consultant                       LCSFM
Paula Silva Pedreira de   Operations Analyst               LCSEN
Freitas
Anemarie Guth Proite      Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Emilio H. Rodriguez       Consultant                        LCSPT
Luciano Wuerzius          Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Anna Roumani              Consultant                      LCSES ICR
                                        43                                   ANNEX A


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
        Stage of Project Cycle           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                       No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands
                                                                (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
FY02                                         2.44                       12.56
FY03                                         6.47                       34.37
FY04                                         15.43                      69.30
FY05                                         18.66                     104.50
Total:                                       43.00                     220.73
Supervision/ICR
FY06                                         10.62                      55.37
FY07                                         15.03                      70.00
FY08                                         14.39                      59.25
FY09                                         8.42                       48.91
FY10                                         9.59                       66.82
FY11                                         3.41                       32.13
FY12                                         5.20                       19.21
Total:                                       66.66                     351.69


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
Follow-on Operations
Operation                               Credit no.   Amount           Board date
                                                     (US$ million)
The Rio de Janeiro Sustainable Rural      8200-BR          39.5       September 10, 2009
Development Project
Additional Finance Loan                   8200-BR          100.0       November 6, 2012
ANNEX B                                   44


Annex B. List of Persons Met
World Bank

Marianne Grosclaude, Senior Agriculture Economist, TTL at closure
Adriana Moreira, Senior Environmental Specialist


Global Environment Facility

Carlo Carugi, GEF Evaluation Office

National Government

Rodrigo Martins Vieira, General Coordinator for External Financing Ministry of
Planning and Budget Management, Secretariat for International Affairs
Ricardo Paes de Barros, Subsecretaria de Ações Estratégicas Presidência da República -
Secretaria de Assuntos Estratégicos
Rosane Silva Pinto de Mendonca, Directora Subsecretaria de Ações Estratégicas
Presidência da República - Secretaria de Assuntos Estratégicos


State Government

Lauro Bassi, Independent Consultant to Rio Rural
Marcelo Monteiro da Costa, Head of Monitoring, Rio Rural
Nelson Teixeira Alves Filho, Superintendent of Sustainable Development and Project
Coordinator, Rio Rural
Helga Hissa, Technical Coordinator, Rio Rural
Sergio Siciliano, Outreach Coordinator, Rio Rural
Mônica Sobreira, EMATER staff responsible for sócio-economic monitoring
Carlos Minc, State Secretary of Environment
Rosa Maria Formiga Johnsson, Waste and Land Management – Director, State
Environmental Agency
Walter Figueiredo de Simoni, Green Economy Superintendent – Secretariat of
Environment
Luiz Firmino Martins Pereira, Undersecretary Executive – Secretariat of Environment
Rachel Bardy Prado, EMBRAPA
Ademir Fontana, EMBRAPA
Alexandre Ortega, EMBRAPA
Geraldo Luis Monteiro, Regional Technician, EMATER
Luiz Carlos Teixeira Guimaraes, EMATER-RJ Regional Norte
Ederson Costa, Technician, EMATER (in charge of 3 municipalities: Natividade, Varre-
Sai, Porciuncula)
Manoel Duarte Ramos Filho, Executive Technician, EMATER (in charge of 3
municipalities: Natividade, Varre-Sai, Porciuncula)
Norma Lúcia Vieira dos Santos, Technician, EMATER São José de Ubá
                                            45                               ANNEX B


Local Beneficiaries/ Project Participants

Sergio Vargas, Coffee producer
Marcos Fernando Pelegrini Menezes, Coffee and milk producer in the municipality of
Porciuncula
Paulo Ricci, Coffee and banana producer in the municipality of Porciuncula
Luiz Maria Vianei Menezes, Coffee and milk producer in the municipality of Porciuncula
Leonardo Dias Figueiredo do Carmo, EMATER, Executor technician, micro-catchment
Caieté and Ribeirao da Onça
Everardo Oliveira Ferreira, Mayor of Varre-Sai
Helio Martins dos Santos, Small landowner at Rio Preto micro-catchment
Genilson de Sousa Pinto, Small landowner at Rio Preto micro-catchment
Ivanete Medeiros, Producer, COGEN member – Rio Uruai micro-catchment
Getúlio Siqueira, Producer, COGEN member – Rio Uruai micro-catchment
Luciana Silva Andrade, producer, Microbacia de Santa Maria in the municipality of São
José de Ubá
José Francisco Andrade Filho, producer, Microbacia de Santa Maria in the municipality
of São José de Ubá
Carlos Marconi de Souza Resende, Technician in charge of the environmental education
in the Northeast region
Roberta Ferreira Pinheiro, student at the Environmental Technical School - Itaperuna
municipality
Prof Marcia Adriana, Chequer Jorge State School- Association of the farmers of the
Experiemtal farm in Italva minucipality
Marina Glória da Costa, Francisdo Ligiero Municipal School
Regiane Moraes Gonçalves, Francisdo Ligiero Municipal School.
Natalia Ribeiro, Saquarema – Rio Roncador Micro-catchment, Lago São Joãos
Consortium (FUNBOAS) www.lagossaojoao.org.br
Gabriel Correa Saquarema – Rio Roncador Micro-catchment, Lago São Joao Consortium
(FUNBOAS)
Wellington Magalhães, Agriculture Secretary of Saquarema/RJ
Maria Cristina Gaglianone, State Fluminense University
Adriana Martins de Matos, Professor of the Technical School at Rio Preto micro-
catchment
Nilza franco, Coordinator of the Technological Incubator for Popular Entrepreneurship

Co-Financiers / Non-Government Implementation Partners

Edmar Coelho Borralho, LLX
Luiz Paulo Pinto, International Conservancy
Mario Mantovani, SOS Mata Atlantica


Other Technical specialists

Carlos Nobre, Presidente da Comissão de Coordenação das Atividades de
Meteorologia,Climatologia e Hidrologia Esplanada dos Ministérios
                                       46                                 ANNEX C


Annex C. Borrower Comments
    Resposta da SEAPEC ao relatório do IEG sobre o projeto Rio Rural GEF

 1. Considerações iniciais

    Agradecemos ao IEG a oportunidade de esclarecer os pontos que, na nossa ótica,
    foram interpretados equivocadamente ou que a sua classificação foram
    desproporcionais aos fatos ocorridos, no intuito assim, de contribuir para melhoria
    dos processos de avaliação realizados pelo Banco Mundial.

    A primeira consideração diz respeito ao tempo decorrido entre a missão do IEG ao
    Projeto e a conclusão do relatório. Passaram-se mais de dois anos desde que
    recebemos a visita da equipe e nesse tempo, as dúvidas que aparentemente surgiram e
    que serão adiante esclarecidas, poderiam ter sido sanadas se houvesse um fluxo de
    informações mais efetivo entre os avaliadores e os demais atores envolvidos.

    Por outro lado, questionamos o efeito prático da referida avaliação, tendo em vista
    que nesses mais de 2 anos o cliente e o Banco Mundial ampliaram de forma
    significativa seus compromissos através da contratação de nova operação de
    financiamento, superior ao financiamento original.

    Com relação a possíveis dúvidas sobre o caráter piloto do projeto, sustentamos que
    todo o desenho e implementação foram concebidos para realmente testar, de forma
    piloto e demonstrativa, com mencionado no PAD, estratégias inovadoras a fim de
    aprimorar as políticas públicas de desenvolvimento rural sustentável, com base na
    metodologia de microbacia hidrográfica que vem sendo apoiada pelo Banco Mundial
    em diversos estados do Brasil e também em outros países há mais de 30 anos. Nesse
    aspecto, destacamos o êxito desse projeto piloto, que a saiu de um patamar de U$14
    milhões, atuando com 4.000 agricultores em 24 municípios e 48 microbacias, para
    uma atuação na forma de política pública estadual, hoje abrangendo todas as regiões,
    72 municípios e 366 microbacias e beneficiando 78.000 agricultores. Assim realizar
    uma avaliação de um projeto piloto, encerrado há 3 anos, sem levar em conta o que
    resultou desse projeto e suas ações é a nossa ver um grande equívoco.

    Além da ampliação em termos de abrangência, o projeto Rio Rural GEF foi
    responsável pela introdução de abordagens inovadoras amigáveis a biodiversidade e a
    conservação dos recursos naturais, que se quer foram objeto de análise do IEG. Como
    exemplo, destacamos, o simulador de gestão sustentável das terras em microbacias, o
    sistema de sustentabilidade financeira, o estatuto comunitário de conduta, o
    monitoramento participativo e a autogestão sustentável dos recursos naturais pelas
    comunidades rurais. Mais ainda, a alavancagem de recursos de co-investimento, da
    ordem de US$3 milhões, proveniente de um trabalho de articulação de iniciativas
    multissetoriais, ONGs, governos em diferentes níveis e iniciativa privada foi
    analisada apenas burocraticamente pelo IEG, sem observar seu mérito enquanto
                                    47                                  ANNEX C


estratégia inovadora para sustentabilidade das ações a longo prazo. Essa inclusive foi
uma das principais apostas do GEF por ocasião do desenho do Projeto.

O sistema de monitoramento do projeto, alvo de críticas no relatório do IEG, foi
concebido a luz das lições aprendidas de diversos projetos de microbacias
desenvolvidos nos anos 80-90 no país, os quais compreendiam desenho clássico de
M&A que forneceria resultados óbvios quanto a melhorias de solo e água. O Rio
Rural GEF inovou nesse aspecto, introduzindo o monitoramento da biodiversidade e
do carbono nos métodos científicos, e o monitoramento participativo. Assumindo
riscos de uma proposta inovadora, o projeto procurou implementar um sistema de
M&A exequível em termos financeiros e que ao mesmo tempo apoiasse a tomada de
decisão dos atores locais (agricultores, técnicos e gestores públicos) por meio de sua
efetiva apropriação das mudanças e resultados que a gestão sustentável dos recursos
naturais propicia. Ressaltamos, outrossim, que o sistema de M&A do projeto continua
se aprimorando, incluindo atualmente a avaliação de impacto padrão ouro, com a
introdução de sorteio de beneficiários e de análises que vão além do econômico e
ambiental, inserindo o de capital social.

Entendemos que a classificação dada ao projeto pelo IEG foi subjetiva, confusa e
pouco transparente.       Como um projeto realizado por equipe considerada
moderadamente satisfatória pôde ser avaliado como moderadamente insatisfatório?
Quais critérios foram analisados e que graus foram adotados para que os resultados
do projeto fossem considerados modestos? Não conseguimos entender os indicadores
utilizados para classificar o projeto. Somente fomos informados do resultado da
classificação, que vai desde o altamente satisfatório ao também altamente, mas
insatisfatório, sem termos acesso aos índices que compõem as diferentes
classificações.

Consideramos que o IEG perdeu uma oportunidade única de direcionar sua análise na
verificação se os instrumentos propostos pelo projeto estão corretos e que auxiliarão
na construção de DRS. Muito mais que a preocupação somente com os números, até
porque estes nos são altamente favoráveis, com todas as metas físicas cumpridas.
Gostaríamos de termos uma análise mais inovadora por parte de uma instituição que
detém o conhecimento, de mais de 30 anos, do mesmo tipo de projeto que estamos
executando. Poderia o IEG começar sua avaliação da seguinte forma: A metodologia
de microbacia é uma estratégia eficiente de construção de DRS para pequenos
agricultores ou ainda se a referida metodologia consegue responder de forma
adequada as preocupações globais atuais? Quem, se não o próprio Banco poderia
responder a esta indagação, lastreado na sua larga experiência no tema.
ANNEX C                                     48


   2. Resposta às principais críticas

   2.1 Com relação ao alcance dos objetivos globais

2.1.1   Combater as ameaças à biodiversidade de importância global
        Com relação ao Primeiro Objetivo Global de combater as ameaças à biodiversidade
        de importância global da mata atlântica, o relatório do IEG conclui que “proprietários
        de terras adotaram práticas que visam aumentar a cobertura vegetal de mata nativa em
        toda a paisagem agrícola adjacente a um ecossistema de importância global, mas o
        projeto só mediu o número de hectares em que tais práticas foram realizadas. Ele não
        mediu a extensão de que a regeneração realmente ocorreu como resultado destas
        práticas. Imagens de satélite mostraram um aumento das áreas em regeneração de três
        das micro-bacias onde o projeto estava ativo, mas esta informação é para a
        microbacia como um todo. Não está claro na medida isso pode ser atribuído às ações
        do projeto.
        RESPOSTA SEAPEC: Concordamos que o tempo de vida do projeto limita a
        obtenção de resultados mais qualitativos sobre os processos de regeneração visando a
        conservação da biodiversidade, os quais serão alcançados a longo prazo.
        Provavelmente por esse motivo, a medida de área restaurada foi proposta e aceita pelo
        GEF como indicador de resultado do alcance desse objetivo global. Isto porque a
        medida de área é por si só um indicativo importante, pois aponta tendências de
        reversão do processo de desmatamento e aumento de cobertura florestal nas áreas de
        intervenção do projeto. Nesse sentido consideramos o alcance do resultado
        satisfatório e nos baseamos nos seguintes argumentos, além dos próprios resultados
        alcançados:
   •    Além da medida de áreas conservadas e/ou restauradas, desde 2009 o projeto avalia o
        desenvolvimento e manutenção dos processos de regeneração e/ou restauração
        florestal das intervenções do projeto nas 3 microbacias monitoradas. A continuidade
        das ações com recursos do financiamento do Banco Mundial permitiu ainda que o
        monitoramento da biodiversidade tivesse continuidade e se estendesse nos anos
        subsequentes ao término do Projeto até a presente data. Assim, foram selecionadas
        para monitoramento da biodiversidade pela equipe da UENF e estão sendo desde a
        implantação em 2009, 14 áreas com subprojetos de recuperação de mata ciliar e
        proteção de nascente implantados nas 3 microbacias monitoradas, distribuídas da
        seguinte forma: seis na microbacia Valão de Santa Maria (São José de Ubá, RJ), seis
        na microbacia Brejo da Cobiça (São Francisco do Itabapoana, RJ) e 2 na microbacia
        Caixa d’ água (Trajano de Morais, RJ). Os relatórios de monitoramento da
        biodiversidade de 2013 e 2014 apontam que, com exceção da Microbacia Caixa
        D´Água, as áreas de intervenção têm apresentado bons resultados em termos de
        regeneração, com bom desenvolvimento das espécies e boa resposta ao isolamento.
        Os produtores têm se mostrado satisfeitos com resultados e interessados em dar
        continuidade aos subprojetos. Além disso, a presença de uma diversidade de espécies
        frutíferas nos sistemas agroflorestais implantados na restauração da mata ciliar
                                        49                                  ANNEX C


    propiciaram uma maior presença e diversidade de polinizadores que agregam
    positivamente e aceleram o processo de regeneração da floresta.

•   Paralelamente ao monitoramento, a UENF elaborou uma lista de espécies
    identificadas em levantamentos realizados em remanescentes florestais circundantes
    às microbacias monitoradas, visando apoiar o enriquecimento dos processos de
    restauração. Informações pessoais de pesquisadores da UENF indicam que a referida
    lista tem sido objeto de consulta por diversas instituições públicas e privadas e está
    auxiliando aos órgãos ambientais, proprietários de terras e ONGs na restauração
    florestal de áreas de preservação permanente (APPs), áreas de proteção ambiental
    (APAs) adjacentes a Unidades de Conservação e na implantação de 500 ha que serão
    restaurados como medida compensatória de megaempreendimentos industriais e de
    infraestrutura instalados na região. Além disso, os pesquisadores relataram que o
    estabelecimento de um banco de dados online com recursos do Rio Rural GEF,
    contendo informações sobre a biodiversidade da Mata Atlântica regional, tem sido
    constantemente acessado por pesquisadores nacionais e internacionais com interesse
    no tema e com certeza subsidiou o desenvolvimento de outras pesquisas em apoio a
    conservação da Mata Atlântica.

•   Os estudos de biodiversidade coordenados pela UENF serviram ainda de base para
    consubstanciar a criação de 3 Unidades de Conservação de Uso Sustentável na região
    Noroeste Fluminense. A primeira, criada em 2012, a Área de Proteção Ambiental –
    APA Microbacia Hidrográfica Capanema /Marambaia, com uma área total de
    4.301,70 hectares e 44 remanescentes de florestas totalizando 637,24 ha, sancionada
    pela Lei Municipal 606/2012. Posteriormente, seu nome foi alterado para APA
    Preguiça de coleira pela Lei Municipal 621/2013. A segunda, pertencendo o
    município de Porciúncula, se insere na Microbacia Hidrográfica da Perdição, com
    uma área total de
    6.241,0 ha, sendo 1.593 ha em florestas nativas (25,94 %), sancionada pelo Decreto
    nº 1360 de 05 de junho de 2013. A terceira, denominada Área de Proteção Ambiental
    – APA Raposo, no distrito de Raposo, município de Itaperuna, abrange parte da
    Microbacia Campinho, sancionada pelo Decreto nº 3362 de 29 de Janeiro de 2014,
    totalizando 6.170,06 hectares, com aproximadamente 1.789 hectares em florestas
    (28,93%).
    Assim, consideramos que os estudos da biodiversidade realizados com recursos do
    projeto, desdobraram ações concretas para conservação da biodiversidade de
    importância global da mata Atlântica Brasileira na Região Noroeste Fluminense,
    altamente fragmentada e ameaçada, se constituíram na criação de 3 Unidades de
    Conservação de Uso Sustentável. A criação dessas Unidades de Uso Sustentável
    garantirá a conservação e o uso sustentável da biodiversidade, em uma área total
    16.712,76 hectares, além de viabilizar o aumento da receita dos municípios com o
    ICMS Verde ( http://www.rj.gov.br/web/sea/exibeconteudo?article-id=164974) e
ANNEX C                                 50


     colaborar na captação de recursos através de projetos, como por exemplo, os
     apresentados pelos municípios de Natividade e Porciúncula na Câmara Técnica de
     Compensação Ambiental do Estado do Rio de Janeiro. O co-investimento do setor
     ambiental as microbacias citadas é de R$368.446,00 (trezentos e sessenta e oito mil e
     quatrocentos      e      quarenta     e    seis     reais)      para      Natividade
     (http://download.rj.gov.br/documentos/10112/1466527/DLFE-
     62283.pdf/Delib_CCA_40.pdf) e R$ 360.806,00 (trezentos e sessenta mil e oitocentos
     e        seis     reais)      para      o      município       de       Porciúncula
     (http://download.rj.gov.br/documentos/10112/2096486/DLFE-
     69129.pdf/Ata_47_CCAordinaria.pdf).

     Além disso, o projeto incentivou a participação de proprietários rurais em editais do
     Fundo de Parcerias para Ecossistemas Críticos (CEPF da sigla em inglês para Critical
     Ecosystem Partenship Fund) coordenados por essas ONGs visando o estabelecimento
     de Reservas Particulares do Patrimônio Natural (RPPNs) em suas propriedades. Esse
     processo inaugurou um processo de formação de mosaico de áreas protegidas que
     instalou cerca de 600 ha de RPPNs no município de Varre Sai que hoje estão sendo
     conectadas com apoio do programa Florestas do Futuro da ONG SOS Mata Atlântica
     e ainda reverte parte do ICMS Ecológico como incentivo para os proprietários
     manterem suas florestas.

     Fig 1. APAS na Região Noroeste
                                       51                                 ANNEX C



•   O projeto foi fundamental ainda no desenho e implantação do mecanismo de
    Pagamento por Serviços Ambientais (PSA) para o estado do RJ. A SEP, EMATER e
    beneficiários participam ativamente nas discussões e grupos de trabalho formados
    pelo órgão ambiental no âmbito do Conselho estadual de Recursos Hídricos (CERHI).
    Além disso, recentemente o Ministério da Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação do
    Governo federal brasileiro está negociando com o GEF através do Banco
    Interamericano de Desenvolvimento um projeto que destinará recursos para implantar
    e avaliar diferentes mecanismos de PSA na bacia do Paraíba do Sul envolvendo os 3
    estados da federação na qual se insere: São Paulo, Minas Gerais e Rio de Janeiro. No
    caso do RJ, a maior parte dos recursos do GEF, da ordem de US$4 milhões, serão
    destinados a PSA a agricultores do Noroeste Fluminense, que implantarem com
    recursos de contrapartida do Rio Rural as ações de conservação ambiental para
    manutenção dos serviços dos ecossistemas. Os agricultores poderão ainda utilizar os
    recursos do PSA para promoverem o salto tecnológico, visando a adoção de práticas
    produtivas sustentáveis que propiciarão um aumento de produtividade e renda que
    garantirão no longo prazo a continuidade das ações conservacionistas.

•   Outra conclusão importante que reforça a importância das ações de restauração do
    projeto na conservação da biodiversidade, extraída de uma das teses de doutorado da
    UENF realizadas com apoio do projeto (ABREU, 2013), é que os pequenos
    fragmentos florestais do Norte-Noroeste Fluminense, de forma geral, apesar de em
    sua maior parte estarem em estágio intermediário de sucessão, apresentam elevada
    diversidade e composição florística peculiar, com ocorrência de espécies novas e
    ameaçadas de extinção, que justificam a sua conservação e a necessidade de
    mecanismos de apoio na recuperação dos mesmos. A autora destaca a urgente
    necessidade da adoção de medidas que visem o aumento da conectividade dos
    remanescentes da região, devido ao alto grau de fragmentação a qual os mesmos estão
    submetidos. De fato, a conexão dos fragmentos foi adotada como uma ação prioritária
    desde o desenho do projeto em reforço a iniciativas em curso de ONGs parceiras - CI
    e SOS Mata Atlântica. Nesse sentido, o projeto apoiou o estabelecimento do Corredor
    de Biodiversidade da Serra do Mar utilizando os mesmos municípios no recorte
    geográfico das estratégias de conservação da biodiversidade e conectividade de
    fragmentos florestais da mata Atlântica no Norte-Noroeste Fluminense.

•   Com intuito de demonstrar se as intervenções ambientais do Projeto estavam de fato
    apoiando a conectividade dos fragmentos florestais, a SEP realizou em 2011 um
    estudo simulando as áreas prioritárias para implantação de corredores ecológicos nas
    3 microbacias monitoradas, com base nas informações de uso do solo, hidrografia e
    cobertura florestal. De acordo com esse estudo, de um modo geral a maior parte das
ANNEX C                                 52


     áreas priorizadas para formação dos corredores prioritários são os topos de morro e
     divisores de água e as APPs dos rios (matas ciliares e nascentes). Esse resultado
     indica que mesmo sem ter o georeferenciamento e acompanhamento sistemático de
     todas as intervenções conservacionistas realizadas pelo projeto (o que de fato seria
     inviável devido ao alto custo do monitoramento) as áreas de conservação e
     restauração florestal realizadas como intervenções ou subprojetos ambientais com
     recursos projeto estão alinhadas com a formação dos corredores ecológicos propostos.
     Para exemplificar podemos observar nas figuras 2 e 3 a seguir que um grande nº de
     subprojetos de proteção de nascentes localiza-se próximo aos corredores ecológicos,
     demonstrando que as estratégias adotadas no projeto Rio Rural/GEF e mantidas no
     Programa Rio Rural /BIRD, podem favorecer o aumento da biodiversidade através da
     conexão dos principais fragmentos da microbacia e dos fragmentos do entorno.

     Os subprojetos promovem o isolamento das áreas impedindo a entrada de gado nos
     fragmentos     diminuindo a pressão na sucessão ecológica e permitindo o
     estabelecimento de espécies vegetais secundárias e clímax, que dificilmente se
     desenvolvem com a presença do gado. Estas áreas também funcionam como núcleo
     de atração para avifauna que procura estes refúgios devido à água e para construir
     ninhos.
     Todas as 1.170 nascentes protegidas com recursos do projeto, das entidades parceiras
     ou próprios dos beneficiários estão sendo georeferenciadas para acompanhamento de
     seu desenvolvimento, em função da campanha visando o alcance da meta de 2016
     nascentes protegidas até as Olimpíadas de 2016.
                                  53                                 ANNEX C




Fig2. Corredores ecológicos e subprojetos de proteção de nascentes na Mbh Brejo da
Cobiça
ANNEX C                                54




     Fig3. Corredores ecológicos e subprojetos de proteção de nascentes na Mbh Santa
     Maria.
                                         55                                  ANNEX C



2.1.2. Reversão da degradação das terras

      Segundo o relatório do IEG, “Reverter a degradação do solo em paisagens agrícolas
      também é um processo de longo prazo. A intenção ambiciosa deste objetivo se reflete
      no indicadora-chave de uma redução de 50% da erosão e sedimentação no nível das
      bacias hidrográficas desempenho. O projeto apoiou práticas relevantes para atingir
      este objetivo, mas eles foram apoiados apenas em escala piloto. Como reconhecido
      pelo relatório de conclusão do projeto, a realização desta escala de impacto exige
      intervenções em uma escala maior e por um período de tempo mais longo.

      RESPOSTA SEAPEC: A estratégia inicialmente de medir a redução das taxas de
      erosão e de sedimentação nos rios foi realmente prejudicada devido a problemas
      enfrentados com os sensores de medição. No entanto, a equipe de especialistas da
      EMBRAPA Solos responsável pelo monitoramento de água e solo utilizou-se de
      parâmetros indiretos para concluir sobre os efeitos benéficos das intervenções do
      projeto na reversão da degradação das terras. Vale ressaltar que as microbacias
      monitoradas foram caracterizadas ambientalmente com todo rigor científico a fim de
      permitir a aplicação e replicabilidade dos resultados em áreas sob clima, tipos de
      solos e usos semelhantes.
      Assim, 2 anos após as intervenções utilizou-se para o monitoramento da qualidade do
      solo parâmetros químicos: cálcio, magnésio trocáveis, fósforo e potássio disponíveis,
      pH, alumínio, e saturação por bases (Embrapa, 1997) e indicadores físicos: densidade
      de solo, porosidade total, macro e micro porosidade, condutividade hidráulica,
      estabilidade de agregados em água (DMP, DMG) (Embrapa, 1997) e a resistência do
      solo a penetração. As amostras foram coletadas em três repetições, e em duas
      profundidades 0-20 cm e 20-40 cm. No caso das amostras físicas são amostras
      simples, e foram coletadas amostras indeformadas com anel volumétrico de 100 cm3
      para determinação da densidade do solo, porosidade total, macro e micro porosidade e
      condutividade hidráulica. Para a estabilidade de agregados foram coletados blocos de
      10 x 10 x 5 cm. Já para textura e as propriedades químicas, foram coletadas amostras
      compostas com trado formadas por cinco amostras simples. No caso de encostas,
      coletou-se no terço superior médio e inferior, compondo assim as três repetições.

      Na microbacia Caixa D’água em Trajano de Moraes, em áreas de latossolo Vermelho
      Amarelo sob cultivo do caquizeiro, onde foram realizadas intervenções de adubação
      verde e adubação orgânica, a avaliação da qualidade física do solo mostrou que,
      quando comparado ao marco zero, a densidade do solo diminui, reduzindo a
      resistência do solo a penetração e aumentando a porcentagem de agregados maiores
      que 2 mm. Isso demonstra que a adubação verde e orgânica está favorecendo a
      agregação e, consequentemente, a resistência do solo à erosão.
      Com relação aos atributos químicos do Neossolo Flúvico sob Banana, na mesma
      microbacia do córrego da Caixa d’água em Trajano de Morais, é possível observar
      algumas diferenças marcantes antes e depois das intervenções. Todos os nutrientes
      apresentados, exceto o sódio, tiveram um aumento marcante do seu teor no solo,
      permitindo assim inferir que a adubação orgânica melhorou a qualidade química do
ANNEX C                                    56


       solo sob cultivo da banana. Pode-se inferir que a elevação do teor de Cálcio (de 0,7
       mol/kg para 6,57 mol/kg) advindo da adubação orgânica está permitindo maior teor
       de nutrientes no complexo de troca do solo e, consequentemente, maio
       disponibilidade do mesmo para ser absorção das raízes, favorecendo uma maior
       produção da bananeira.
        Já em áreas sob pastagens, a introdução do pastoreio rotacionado como intervenção
       pelo projeto aumentou o valor de densidade do solo que na profundidade 0-20 cm,
       que no marco zero era relativamente elevado (1,30 g/cm³) no Latossolo, evidenciando
       possivelmente uma compactação inicial do solo. Os resultados demonstram que a
       prática de pastoreio rotacioado pode diminuir a compactação do solo, uma vez que
       produz menor pressão do gado sobre o solo. Resultados semelhantes foram obtidos
       em pastagens da microbacia Brejo Cobiça, em São Francisco do Itabapoana.
       Como considerações finais, os pesquisadores ressaltam que após as intervenções foi
       possível verificar melhorias nas propriedades físicas e químicas do solo. A adubação
       e correção do solo, de um modo geral, favoreceram a melhoria da fertilidade do solo
       e, consequentemente, poderá levar a maiores produtividades das culturas. Os
       indicadores físicos de qualidade de solo utilizados, em sua maioria, foram sensíveis as
       intervenções, destacando-se: a condutividade hidráulica, a resistência à penetração,
       percentagem de agregados > 2 mm e a densidade do solo. Os indicadores químicos
       também foram sensíveis às intervenções, especialmente: pH, cálcio e
       magnésio, e alumínio. A intervenção com adubação orgânica levou a melhora da
       estrutura do solo, favorecendo a conservação de solo, nos usos e solos monitorados,
       tornando os solos menos susceptíveis a degradação, sobretudo erosão. O pastoreio
       rotacionado foi uma intervenção adequada para melhoria ou da qualidade do solo, sob
       pastagem, sendo uma prática que deve ser estimulada na região. A qualidade do
       Latossolo Vermelho-amarelo e do Neossolo Flúvico foi influenciada pela adubação
       orgânica, ocorrendo melhora das suas propriedades físicas e químicas.

       Os resultados indicam que o alcance do objetivo foi moderadamente satisfatório.

2.1.3. Sequestro de C
       De acordo com o relatório do IEG, as estimativas de CO2 sequestrado por ha , tanto
       sob pastagem melhorada (80 tons/ha) quanto em áreas liberadas para a conservação
       da biodiversidade(28.2 tons/ha), excederam a meta de 1,5 ton /ha, embora a
       estimativa total de 28.515 ton CO2 seja 84% da meta do appraisal (34.000 ton).
       Entretanto não está claro quanto cada uma das estimativas compara à quantidade de
       carbono sequestrado sob o uso anterior do solo, uma vez que o estudo da linha de
       base não foi elaborado. Por esse motivo, não é possível avaliar se o sequestro de C de
       fato foi alcançado. Dito isso, é importante notar que a quantidade absoluta de C
       sequestrado por todo o investimento do projeto poderia ser potencialmente maior ,
       vez que o cálculo apresentado apenas levou em consideração uma parte dos
       subprojetos financiados

       RESPOSTA SEAPEC: De fato, o projeto enfrentou dificuldades em encontrar um
       parceiro ou consultor que se dedicasse desde o início a construção da linha de base
       para o sequestro de Carbono. No entanto, essa dificuldade foi inicialmente contornada
                                           57                                   ANNEX C


       com a decisão da equipe do Projeto em 2008-2009 de utilizar a ferramenta EX ACT
       desenvolvida por Bernoux e colaboradores com apoio da FAO na avaliação ex- ante
       do balanço de Carbono do projeto de financiamento Rio Rural BIRD. A ferramenta
       produz uma estimativa do balanço do potencial de Carbono a ser gerado a partir de
       cenários de mudanças de uso da terra com e sem o projeto, considerando melhorias de
       manejo a serem adotadas com os incentivos do Projeto. De acordo com os autores, as
       informações resultantes da análise também podem ser utilizadas em uma avaliação ex
       posta, ou seja, os resultados poderiam ser extrapolados para avaliar o potencial de
       sequestro do Projeto Rio Rural GEF, uma vez que as práticas analisadas são as
       mesmas, guardando-se as devidas proporções de abrangência em termos de área, dado
       o caráter piloto do projeto. As conclusões do estudo fundamentaram ainda a
       sinalização para a equipe gerencial do projeto a necessidade de priorizar o incentivo a
       adição de práticas que comparativamente sequestram mais carbono, como os sistemas
       agroflorestais e silvopastoris, além dos reflorestamentos/regeneração com espécies
       nativas.

       Com a inclusão na equipe da EMBRAPA Solos de pesquisador com especialidade em
       Carbono, foi possível resgatar a ideia inicial de monitorar o C sequestrado. Essa
       estratégia prevê o foco do monitoramento nas pastagens melhoradas com incentivos
       do projeto, tendo em vista ser esse o uso mais representativo das terras na região e no
       estado. As medições na mata são ainda realizadas como referência de nível de
       carbono em áreas sem interferência antrópica. Essas aferições foram realizadas nas
       microbacias monitoradas em 2011 e 2012 e servirão de linha de base para
       acompanhar o efeito das intervenções de pastoreio rotacionado nos níveis de Carbono
       do solo e biomassa aérea. Os resultados iniciais dos estoques na microbacia
       monitorada de São José de Ubá, sob clima úmido tropical com estações bem definidas
       (Aw na classificação de Koppen) mostraram 125 MgC ha-1, dos quais 71 MgC ha-1
       no solo e 53 MgC ha-1 na biomassa acima do solo. Também verificaram que os
       estoques de C do solo sob pastagem foi significativamente superior quando
       comparado a floresta (84 MgC ha-1), embora o estoque total na floresta seja maior.
       Os pesquisadores concluíram que, levando-se em consideração que a pastagem ocupa
       mais de 60% das terras, as intervenções para aumentar os estoques deverão focar nas
       áreas sob pastagem indicando que as ações do projeto Rio Rural tem um potencial
       para melhorar sequestro de C.

       Diante dos esforços que o projeto vem realizando consideramos que a classificação de
       para o alcance desse objetivo foi moderadamente satisfatória.


2.1.4. Ampliar a conscientização dos atores sobre a importância da conservação da
       biodiversidade
       Segundo o relatório do IEG, não existe informação suficiente para avaliar a medida
       em que a consciência do valor da adoção de uma abordagem IEM foi realmente
       aumentada como resultado da dos esforços de divulgação e informação do projeto. O
       objetivo foi explicitamente formulado por isso não está claro quem exatamente
       consciência o projeto destina-se a aumentar do que resultado ou comportamento o
ANNEX C                                 58


     projeto pretende alterar alcançar ao fazer isso, os principais indicadores de
     desempenho selecionados para este objetivo são produtos que não medem alcance a
     nível de resultado.

     RESPOSTA SEAPEC: Realmente medir mudança comportamental é complexo e
     como tal não deve ser reflexo de apenas um indicador, mas um conjunto de
     indicadores que associados fornecerão uma análise mais realística do processo de
     mudança que se quer medir. E foi exatamente dessa forma que na avaliação final do
     projeto identificou-se a mudança de conscientização dos beneficiários, executores e
     demais atores relevantes com relação à conservação ambiental além das informações
     produzidas e eventos de disseminação realizados pelo Projeto. Diante dos resultados
     alcançados expressos abaixo, entendemos que a classificação do projeto para esse
     objetivo foi satisfatória.

     Além das estatísticas de acesso ao portal, as publicações elaboradas pelo Projeto
     como Manuais Técnicos e Cartilhas da Biodiversidade, as quais são periodicamente
     solicitadas por produtores e pesquisadores, inclusive de fora do Estado, consideramos
     avaliar se a percepção das pessoas envolvidas, agricultores, professores, técnicos,
     gestores públicos realmente se apropriaram dessas informações e mudaram a
     percepção sobre a importância da conservação da biodiversidade e, mais importante,
     gerenciar os recursos naturais de modo a conservá-los para as gerações futuras,
     assumindo o compromisso de contribuir, a partir de uma ação local, ao enfrentamento
     de questões ambientais globais.

     No estudo “Avaliação da adoção de práticas de manejo sustentável de recursos
     naturais e sua sustentabilidade no alcance de benefícios globais e resultados no
     âmbito do Projeto Rio Rural/GEF” realizado para subsidiar a avaliação final, foram
     analisados estatisticamente os resultados alcançados em termos de adoção de práticas
     (ou subprojetos incentivados), os quais foram associados a entrevistas com
     beneficiários e técnicos executores do projeto. O estudo aponta claramente como
     resultado do projeto a maior percepção desses atores sobre a importância das práticas
     ambientais na manutenção dos ecossistemas e na melhoria da qualidade ambiental,
     bem como a intenção de manter e expandir a adoção no futuro. Além disso, indica a
     organização dos produtores, tanto as existentes como as estruturas organizativas
     propostas pelo projeto, como fundamentais para a apresentação e discussão dos temas
     relacionados com a biodiversidade e o uso e manejo dos recursos naturais.

     O papel do Comitê Gestor de Microbacias – COGEM e da percepção ambiental dos
     beneficiários forma analisados em 8 microbacias trabalhadas. com maior
     profundidade no estudo de Avaliação Final realizado pelo Cliente.
     Na análise, o projeto foi considerado um estimulador da organização dos grupos
     sociais locais, contribuindo, através dos COGEMs, para a criação/manutenção de
     mecanismos locais de organização social, uma oportunidade de maior contato com
     técnicos prestadores de assistência, de acesso a informações, conhecimentos, de
     forma articulada, como um instrumento de capacitação dos agricultores. O COGEM
                                      59                                    ANNEX C


aparece ainda em alguns relatos como um instrumento para ações ambientais, de
preservação, como um estimulador da conscientização ambiental.
A prestação de assistência técnica para as ações ambientais foi também relatada como
uma característica distintiva do projeto Rio Rural/GEF. Da mesma forma, ações
ambientais, como a proteção de nascentes, a recuperação da mata ciliar, ou ainda, o
acesso à informações sobre o Código Florestal compõem o quadro de novidades
aportadas pelo projeto. O relatório conclui que as ações do Rio Rural/GEF podem ser
consideradas como propiciadoras ao menos da emergência da temática ambiental nas
microbacias, como um passo inicial para ações futuras.
De fato, 88% dos representantes dos 48 COGEMs entrevistados durante reunião
regional envolvendo os 24 municípios atuantes em 2011 disseram esperar a
continuidade de projetos de conscientização ambiental e de uso adequado dos
recursos naturais, além de solicitarem mais ações de caráter ambiental. Dezessete
municípios (68% do total) citaram demandas por melhorias na proteção das nascentes
e dos córregos, captação da água, saneamento básico, reflorestamento, plantio de
mata ciliar e o cumprimento do Estatuto de Conduta Comunitária. Em quatro
municípios o anseio pela eliminação do uso de agrotóxicos foi apontada, e em dois a
necessidade de destinação adequada das embalagens dos mesmos.
2.2 Sistema de Monitoramento e Avaliação adotado no Projeto Rio Rural/GEF
Contexto do Projeto
A visão holística de manejo dos recursos é um processo de definição de objetivos, tomada de
decisão, geração de conhecimento e informações, monitoramento e avaliação, que integra
fatores ecológicos econômicos, sociais, políticos, culturais, gênero e geração, o qual se
completa quando as lições aprendidas e as experiências positivas são efetivamente
incorporadas nas políticas públicas.
Na busca do crescimento e desenvolvimento os moradores das microbacias utilizam e
manejam os recursos naturais de acordo à sua condição socioeconômica e a partir de sistemas
de produção que incluem a exploração de culturas e criações econômicas e de subsistência
aplicando diferentes tecnologias.
Esta ação do homem sobre o meio pode, por um lado melhorar sua condição sócio-econômica
e elevar seu nível de vida, porém quando feita sem uma visão e condição de longo prazo,
pode degradar em diferentes níveis o ambiente colocando em risco a possibilidade futura de
sobrevivência.

Desenho do Sistema de Monitoramento e Avaliação
Dentro do contexto onde se inseriu o Projeto e das atividades desenvolvidas e
resultados esperados, o Sistema de Monitoramento e Avaliação desenhado e
executado no âmbito do Projeto Rio Rural/GEF teve o desafio de elaborar um
diagnóstico inicial das microbacias selecionadas em relação ao uso e manejo dos
recursos naturais e à condição socioeconômica dos beneficiários, acompanhar as
ações do projeto dando visibilidade às experiências, fornecendo elementos para a
ANNEX C                                  60


     correção de rumos e proporcionando subsídios para a gestão e disseminação de
     conhecimento e lições aprendidas.
     O desenho adotado para o monitoramento completo tem sido o fruto de experiências
     anteriores de projetos financiados principalmente pelo Banco Mundial em outros
     estados brasileiros [destacam-se: Santa Catarina, São Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul e
     Paraná]. As microbacias onde se desenvolveu foram selecionadas do universo das
     beneficiadas (tendo sido representativas das condições socioeconômicas e ambientais
     da área de intervenção do projeto) e serviram como referência para medir com
     maior rigor técnico e científico os resultados e impactos da estratégia técnica e
     metodológica sobre: dimensões ambientais (solo, água e biodiversidade) e dimensão
     econômica, social e organizativa, bem como a eficiência no arranjo institucional
     implementado.
     Os indicadores adotados mantiveram uma relação direta com as atividades e objetivos
     do projeto tendo sido selecionados também de acordo a experiências de projetos
     anteriormente destacados nos quais estes indicadores se mostraram eficientes para
     medir a eficácia da estratégia técnica e metodológica que os referidos projetos
     utilizaram em sua estratégia operacional, sempre considerando que todos tiveram uma
     abordagem que utilizou a microbacia hidrográfica como unidade central de
     planejamento, ou seja, o âmbito de intervenção é comum para todos estes projetos e,
     portanto, foi possível adotar um sistema padrão de Monitoramento, uma vez que
     todos adotaram também, estratégias técnicas e metodológicas similares.
     As metodologias de monitoramento também foram selecionadas a partir das
     experiências anteriores e ajustadas às condições locais, porém, mantiveram os
     princípios adotados nos projetos destacados.
     O Sistema de Monitoramento completo adotado foi incluído no desenho do projeto
     como uma exigência do GEF, especialmente em relação ao monitoramento da
     biodiversidade [destaca-se que a biodiversidade foi um dos eixos centrais do projeto],
     onde também foram obtidos os melhores e mais completos resultados do
     monitoramento e onde foi realizado o maior número de estudos.
     No desenho do Rio Rural o sistema de monitoramento completo foi mantido
     [acordado com o Banco Mundial], tendo sido aprimorado, destacando-se neste
     aprimoramento:
     (a) Monitoramento da biodiversidade – além de estar sendo dado seguimento ao
     monitoramento da biodiversidade, a abordagem foi ampliada, como uma decisão do
     projeto, tendo em vista os excelentes resultados obtidos no Projeto Rio Rural/GEF.
     (b) Monitoramento do carbono – o monitoramento do carbono que iniciou com o
     projeto Rio Rural/GEF, foi mantido no projeto Rio Rural/Bird como uma ferramenta
                                    61                                    ANNEX C


de averiguação da contribuição da estratégia técnica do projeto no sequestro de
carbono e na melhoria da qualidade do solo.
(c) Monitoramento participativo – esta foi uma iniciativa diferenciada de
monitoramento adotada pelo Projeto Rio Rural/GEF, tendo sido muito pouco
utilizada em projetos desta natureza no Brasil. Os ótimos resultados e o aprendizado
obtido estão permitindo que este sistema de monitoramento, além de completar e dar
maior abrangência ao monitoramento completo se constitui numa excelente
ferramenta de participação dos beneficiários e de planejamento de ações nas
microbacias, além de permitir que o projeto seja acompanhado em suas ações nas
microbacias a partir da visão dos moradores locais e dos Técnicos Executores



Referências:

Natividade:
apacapanema-marambaia.blogspot.com.br
http://apacapanema-marambaia.blogspot.com.br/p/sobre-apa.html
https://www.google.com.br/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=3&cad=rj
a&uact=8&
ved=0CCkQFjAC&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.natividade.rj.gov.br%2Fleis%2F201
3%2FLEI_N_62
1_2013.pdf&ei=8SCfU4noFaTQsQSu34HQCQ&usg=AFQjCNFJb4UO05h2C0RXj
OnjiQ7f60sSGg.
https://www.facebook.com/portalnatividade/posts/735906059774783

Porciúncula:
http://www.porciuncula.rj.gov.br/portal/index.php/apresentacao
http://www.porciuncula.rj.gov.br/portal/index.php/informacoes
http://www.porciuncula.rj.gov.br/portal/index.php/bioma-mata-atlantica

Itaperuna:
http://www.itaperuna.rj.gov.br/folhadeitaperuna/610.pdf

Artigos relacionados:
http://www.rj.gov.br/web/sea/exibeconteudo?article-id=514167
http://www.aliancamataatlantica.org.br/?p=10
http://www.aliancamataatlantica.org.br/?p=5&a=19
file:///C:/Documents%20and%20Settings/Usu%C3%A1rio/Meus%20documentos/Do
wnloads/documento.pdf

GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO /SECRETARIA DE ESTADO
DA AGRICULTURA
Relatório Metodológico / Estatístico - Identificação de corredores prioritários para
ANNEX C                                 62


     recuperação e conexão de fragmentos de remanescentes florestais nas micro-bacias do
     projeto e seu entorno (Produto 6 ) . PROJETO: GERENCIAMENTO INTEGRADO
     DE AGROECOSSISTEMAS EM MICROBACIAS HIDROGRÁFICAS DO
     NORTE-NOROESTE
     FLUMINENSE - RIO RURAL/GEF - Novembro / 2011. 15p.

     ABREU, Carla M. Pedra de. Estrutura florística e diversidade de fragmentos de
     floresta estacional semi-decidual no Norte-Noroeste Fluminense. Universidade
     Estadual do Norte Fluminense, Tese de Doutorado. Agosto 2013, 209p.

     GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO /SECRETARIA DE ESTADO
     DA AGRICULTURA. PROJETO: GERENCIAMENTO INTEGRADO DE
     AGROECOSSISTEMAS EM MICROBACIAS HIDROGRÁFICAS DO NORTE-
     NOROESTE FLUMINENSE - RIO RURAL/GEF Avaliação da adoção de práticas de
     manejo sustentável de recursos naturais e sua sustentabilidade no alcance de
     benefícios globais e resultados no âmbito do Projeto Rio Rural/GEF (relatório). Rio
     de Janeiro, 2011.30p.

     GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO /SECRETARIA DE ESTADO
     DA AGRICULTURA. PROJETO: GERENCIAMENTO INTEGRADO DE
     AGROECOSSISTEMAS EM MICROBACIAS HIDROGRÁFICAS DO NORTE-
     NOROESTE FLUMINENSE - RIO RURAL/GEF Relatório de Conclusão do
     Mutuário. 2012. 163p.
