Document of           FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3232-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
March 9, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance Of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1, 1982)
US$1            =   Rs 9.246049
Rs 1            =   US$0.108154
Rs 1 million         US$108,154
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AO       -       Agricultural Officer
ADA      -       Assistant Director of Agriculture
Addl. DA -       Additional Director of Agriculture
APAU     -       Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
BDO      -        Block Development Officer
DA       -       Director of Agriculture
DDA      -       Deputy Director of Agriculture
DOA      -       Department of Agriculture
GOAP     -        Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI      -       Government of India
ha       -       hectare
JDA      -       Joint Director of Agriculture
SMS      -       Subject Matter Specialist
T&V      -       Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
VDO      -        Village Development Officer
VEO      -       Village Extension Officer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:    The State of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP).
Amount:         SDR 5.3 million (US$6 million equivalent).
Terms:           Standard.
Relending        From GOI to GOAP.  As part of Central assistance for State
Terms:          development projects on terms and conditions applicable at
the time.
Project         The project would serve about 5.5 million farm families
Description:    in 22 districts in Andhra Pradesh by reorganizing and
strengthening the agricultural extension services along
the lines of the Training and Visit System of extension,
which is based on frequent in-service training of exten-
sion workers and regular, scheduled visits by extension
workers to farmers' fields. The project faces no special
risks, although realization of the expected benefits will
depend heavily on the State Government's ability to manage
the reorganized extension system effectively, maintaining
an effective single line of command from extension head-
quarters to the field-level workers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
tbei ofriial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Cost: a/                                       (US$ milliono)
Local     Foreign      Total
Incremental Staff                          2.0         -           2.0
Incremental Operating Costs                0.9        0.6          1.5
Civil Works                                1.2         -           1.2
Vehicles and Equipment                     1.6        0.7          2.3
Training                                   0.6        0.1          0.7
Base Cost Estimate                      6.3        1.4          7.7
Physical Contingencies                     0.1         -           0.1
Price Contingencies                        1.6        0.3          1.9
Total Project Cost                       8.0        1.7          9.7
Financing Plan:                                          (US$ millions)
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                                           4.3        1.7          6.0
GOI/GOAP                                     =3.7         -           3.7
Total                                     8.0        1.7          9.7
3SW--     ==o-- n=i
Estimated                                         (US$ millions)
Disbursements: b/
FY82      FY83       FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87
Annual               0.2        0.8       1.1       1.5      1.5       0.9
Cumulative           0.2        1.0       2.1       3.6      5.1       6.0
Rate of Return:   At least 50%.
Appraisal Report: No. 3615-IN, dated March 9, 1982.
a/ Including an estimated US$1.0 million in taxes and duties.
b/  According to IDA's fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 5.3 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to reorganize and strengthen
the agricultural extension service of the State of Andhra Pradesh. The
Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the credit to the
Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) in accordance with GOI's standard terms
and arrangements for financing State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to
significantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Fourth Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation Credit Project (No. P-3196-IN), dated
February 1, 1982.



-2-
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 19709.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%. The
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.



The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980. While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around 130 million tons.
While the performance of the recent past and the probable future trends
suggest that on average fooa-rain supplias will e,rcepd diemand. the balance
remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain consumer
supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. For
example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure adequate build up
of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage
the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high
priority.
9.        The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
wel as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into balance at a reasonable level of growth. In an effort
to make these adjustments, the Government has developed an investment program
for the Sixth Plan period and implemented a number of policy measures which
are designed to bring the economy closer to external equilibrium. These



-4-
measures recognize the need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth. To assist the Government in its adjustment
effort, the IMF approved an Extended Fund Facility for India for
SDR 5.0 billion on November 9, 1981. Over the next three years, this
facility will provide India with a significant share of the external resour-
ces required to bring about the necessary changes in the structure of the
economy and will substantially increase India's flexibility in dealing with
its external account imbalance.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports -
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas. These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent



-5-
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demaaid and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
line with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's



-6-
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, over the past year
India has begun to make judicious use of a mix of sources of external financ-
ing, including borrowing from financial markets of about US$1 billion and,
most recently, the SDR 5 billion Extended Fund Facility.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
family planning activities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
Plan continues the high priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
The ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples in the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified. Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and



-7-
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve liv'ing standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 62 loans and 144 development
credits to India totalling US$2,931 million and US$10,283 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,188 million had been
repaid, and US$4,408 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in 1980/81 totalled US$962 million, repre-
senting an increase of about 32 percent over the previous year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of September 30, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.     Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.6
million, of which US$22.6 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$90.8 million, US$81.9 million
represents loans and US$8.9 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
23.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1981, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$1,828 million, of which US$819
million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,009
million.
26.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA,
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN ANDHRA PRADESH
27.       The State of Andhra Pradesh, located on the southeast coast of
India, is the fifth largest State in IVdia, both in terms of population
(53 million) and land area (276,814 km ). About 11.3 million ha are
cultivated by 5.5 million farm families. Estimated per capita income in
1977/78 was Rs. 1,002 as compared to an all-India average of Rs. 1,163.
Agriculture is the most important sector of the State's economy,
contributing about 55% of the net domestic product, and employing about
70% of the labor force. Farm holdings are small, averaging 2.1 ha, with
47% of the total farm holdings being less than one hectare.
28.       Andhra Pradesh has three main regions.  The Coastal Andhra
region, covering eight northeastern districts, is the most fertile, with a
good proportion of deltaic alluvial soils, black cotton soils and red
soils with a clay base. The Rayalseema region, covering four southern
districts, and the Telengana region, covering the remaining 11 western and
north-western districts, have either black soils, black cotton or red
loamy soils which are less suitable for cultivation.
29.       The State is served by two major rivers, the Krishna and the
Godavari, which irrigate about 36% of the gross area sown. Most of the
cultivated area is fed by the southwest monsoon (June-September), but
coastal areas also benefit from the northeast monsoon (October-December),
the two monsoons bringing a total of about 1,000 mm per year. The driest
areas of the State are in the Rayalseema region where sporadic and
irregularly distributed rainfall barely averages 550 mm per year. Nearly
half the State is classified as a drought-prone area.
30.       Andhra Pradesh is a major rice-producing State.  Two crops
produced 7.4 million tons of rice in 1978/79, but production fell to 6.2
million tons in the drought year of 1979/80. The remaining cropped area
produces sorghum, millet, maize, sugarcane, cotton, tobacco and
groundnuts. Foodgrain production reached 10.7 million tons in 1978/79,
dropping to 9.4 million tons in 1979/80. In an effort to improve
agricultural growth, GOAP has focussed on extending irrigation and
strengthening agricultural services.
31.       The present system of extension is executed through the
Panchayati Raj Department, where extension activities revolve around
Development Blocks under the supervision of the Panchayat Samiti, or Block
Council, which is an elected body of representatives from the Panchayats,
or village-level councils. The Block Council's executive officer is the
Block Development Officer (BDO), an officer of the State Administrative
Service. The BDO is in charge of all development programs. In
agricultural matters, he is advised by the Divisional Assistant Director
of Agriculture (ADA), and assisted by two or three Agricultural Officers
(AO), depending on the intensity of agriculture in the block. Each



-1 0-
Panchayat is assigned one or two Village Development Officers (VDO),
multi-purpose workers who, though supposed to devote 80% of their time to
agriculture, are often diverted to other duties, and devote only about 10%
of their time to agricultural work. The VDO reports directly to the BDO.
The Agriculture Department is somewhat divorced from the extension
program; the Joint and Deputy Directors of Agriculture (JDA/DDA), at the
districti/ level, are primarily engaged in operating special schemes,
farmers' training centers, adaptive research stations and seed farms in
the district, supported by AOs, Sub-Assistant and Field Assistant level
staff. The JDA/DDAs report to the District Collector as far as the
Panchayat Samiti extension programs are concerned and to the Director of
Agriculture (DA) on all other matters.
32.       The Department of Agriculture (DOA) has continually added
officers to its staff, including Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), on an
ad hoc basis as special needs arose, such as the Intensive Agricultural
Development Project, the Intensive Agricultural Areas Project and
Commodity Development Schemes (e.g. in cotton, tobacco, pulse, cashew and
sugarcane development). Most of these schemes have their own field level
extension agents and are administered by the Agriculture Department.
Until recently, lines of control of these schemes converged only at the
State level. With the posting of DDA or JDA to head the district
agricultural organization, most of the schemes are now under the
supervision of the District JDA or DDA. At the divisional 2/ level,
however, lines of control still remain parallel in respect of some of the
schemes. The Department of Agriculture has come to possess a sizeable
organization comprising supervisory officers, technical experts and field
level staff and has progressively found it more expedient to work on its
own, outside the purview of the block. Thus, while one line of
administrative control passes down from the Panchayati Raj Department
through the District Collector to the Panchayat Samiti, the other line
passes from the Agriculture Department through the JDA/DDA and ADA to the
field level. The DOA, on the one hand, is responsible for advising the
Panchayat Samitis in matters relating to agricultural extension and, on
the other hand, executes and administers directly a host of technical
schemes which fall outside the purview of the Panchayat Samitis. It will
be necessary to reorganize the extension service to obviate the current
dualism in its operation and control, and to rationalize the
administrative lines of control within the DOA.
1/ A district is a larger jurisdictional area, typically containing
approximately 15-20 blocks.
2/ There are an average of three divisions in each district.



-1 1-
33.       The Government of Andhra Pradesh has, for the last four years,
been implementing a reorganized extension system in the command areas of
the four irrigation projects covered by the AP Composite Irrigation
Project (Ln 1251-IN). Reports on the extension components of these
projects have consistently drawn attention to the poor working of the
system. The reasons for this appear to be inadequate supervision,
isolation of extension staff in the command areas from the rest of the
Agriculture Department and from research, and failure to secure the
complete release of extension workers from non-extension duties. The
project aims to overcome these weaknesses. The Agriculture Department
would be made responsible for its execution. Panchayati Raj departmental
staff currently engaged in extension work will be transferred to the
Agriculture Department. Also, the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
(APAU), responsible for research, would be strengthened under the project
and would integrate and intensify its extension activities to provide
sustained support to the DOA extension program.
Bank Group Activities in Agricultural Extension
34.       Many of the shortcomings in Andhra Pradesh's extension system
have been identified in other States. Since 1977, the Bank Group has
assisted efforts to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in
twelve Indian States. Bank Group-supported projects 1/ have introduced
the Training and Visit (T & V) System of agricultural extension, a system
based on frequent (bi-weekly) in-service training of field extension
workers and regular, scheduled visits by field workers to farmers.
35.       Introduction of the T&V system has not been easy.  The shift
from a system based on multi-purpose functionaries to a system of
professional extension carried out by single-purpose extension workers
involves a major administrative and conceptual reform which inevitably
1/ The Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN, April 1,
1977); the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 712-IN, June 1, 1977); the West Bengal Agricultural Extension
and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN, June 1, 1977); the Assam Agricul-
tural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, June 30, 1977); the Rajasthan
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-IN, November 14,
1977); the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 761-IN, January 6, 1978); the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 862-IN, February 16, 1979); the Kerala Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 1028-IN, June 25, 1980); the Maharashtra
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1135-IN, May 7, 1981); the Tamil
Nadu Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1137-IN, May 7, 1981); and
the Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1138-IN,
May 7, 1981).



-12-
encounters bureaucratic, political and logistical hurdles. Informed and
motivated leadership being of paramount importance during the introduction
of the system, senior staff turnover is particularly troublesome.
Moreover, even in the best of circumstances, several year. are required
for the system, once initiated, to fully mature and become
institutionalized. Despite these unavoidable challenges, the system has
been very successfully initiated in Orissa, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Haryana,
Madhya Pradesh and Assam. Field visits have shown that farmers have
responded favorably to extension efforts, adopting recommended practices
such as line-transplanting of paddy, seed treatment, inter-cropping with
pulses, and basal dressing of fertilizer. In project districts in Madhya
Pradesh, for example, there has been a 300X increase in the use of clean
and graded seed, a 35X increase in the planting of seed of improved
varieties, and a 28% increase in the use of seed dressings. Fertilizer
use has increased by 66% between 1976/77 and 1978/79 (as opposed to a 48%
increase in non-project areas) and the use of soil testing facilities has
increased by 69%. Continued care will be required in all States to see
that vacated posts are quickly filled, extension workers are adequately
supervised, and extension messages continue to be appropriate.  But the
basis has been laid for a strong, professional extension system and
results are visible in the field.
36.       In Gujarat, while the system is in place and operating fairly
well, the quality of field work is somewhat uneven. The State Government
has been alerted to IDA's concerns by recent supervision missions, and
efforts are underway to ensure that extension workers are provided with
appropriate messages and understand the messages they are to deliver, that
selection of contact farmers is improved, and that farmers are made aware
of the visit schedule in their area.
37.       In Bihar, West Bengal, and Kerala the effort to introduce the
T&V System has encountered more serious delays. A change in the State
Government in West Bengal, following the initially very promising
introduction of the T&V System, led to a re-evaluation of the system and
its merits by the incoming administration. While this resulted in a
lengthy period of backsliding in terms of project implementation, which
will result in a delay in project completion by about two years, the
Government of West Bengal has now reaffirmed its commitment to the T&V
System and has taken the critical steps required to expedite project
implementation (e.g. recruitment and training of field staff,
identification of farmer groups and selection of contact farmers). In the
case of Bihar, project implementation was seriously hampered by vacancies
in the posts of Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of
Agriculture (Extension). These posts have now been filled, funds have
been sanctioned for the next year's operations, and a revised
implementation schedule is being worked out. In Kerala, project
initiation was slowed by staff changeovers at all levels (ministerial and
administrative). Field work did begin in mid-1979 in three districts;
however, a satisfactory program has yet to be submitted for introduction



-13-
of the T&V System in the remaining eight districts. The Department of
Agriculture's plans for project implementation are currently before the
State Government, which is expected to render its decision shortly. IDA
and GOI are following the situation closely.
38.     Finally, in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the projects are still in
the very early stages of implementation and are proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was prepared by the Government of Andhra Pradesh
with the assistance of Bank Group staff. It was appraised in May/June
1981. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural Extension Project" (No. 3615-IN) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in February 1982. India and Andhra Pradesh were
represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. G. Ranga Rao, Director,
Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet
is attached as Annex III-.
40.       The project seeks to achieve early and sustained increases in
agricultural production throughout the State's 22 agricultural districts
(excluding the urban district of Hyderabad) through the introduction of
the Training and Visit System of agricultural extension. The extension
service of the Department of Agriculture would be reorganized and
strengthened by: (a) redeployment of staff already available in the
Department of Agriculture, the Panchayati Raj Department, the Command Area
Development Department and various special crop schemes, and the hiring of
new staff to form a single, unified extension service; (b) establishment
of a single line of command between the full-time field level extension
workers and headquarters; (c) introduction of a systematic and fixed
schedule for frequent and regular visits by extension workers to farmers'
fields; (d) improvement of linkages between extension operations and
agricultural research activities; (e) strengthening of training
activities; and (f) regular monitoring and evaluation of extension
services. The project would provide incremental staff, training and
training facilities, vehicles, equipment, housing and operating funds to
achieve these reforms.
41.       The proposed project would be based on the deployment at field
level of Village Extension Officers (VEO) responsible only for
agricultural extension. Each VEO would be assigned to work with a
specified number of farm families whose number would vary depending on
local conditions, population density, cropping intensity and
accessibility. Each VEO would be expected to cover about 800 farm
families, on average, although the VEO:farm family ratio could vary.
Thus, about 6,800 VEOs would serve Andhra Pradesh's 5.5 million farm
families. The Government of Andhra Pradesh would fill incremental staff



-14-
positions according to a schedule agreed with IDA (Section 2.07 (a),
Project Agreement).
42.        In order to reach farmers systematically, the VEO would divide
farm families in his jurisdiction into eight similar groups of 80-120
each. He would visit each group regularly on a fixed day of the week on a
two-week cycle. During his visit, the VEO would concentrate his efforts
on about ten contact farmers selected from each group, involving as many
other farmers as possible in the discussions and demonstrations. During
his visit, the VEO would concentrate on a few strategically selected
recommendations relevant for that particular phase of the crop cycle. The
extension messages to be communicated to farmers at the initial stage
would be simple and concentrate on the few important crops in the locality
and the most important aspects of crop-production practices at that time.
Initially, the emphasis would be on low-cost improvements which the
majority of farmers can afford.
43.        The VEO would be helped, guided and supervised by an
Agricultural Officer (AO), who would normally be a graduate in
agriculture. One AO would normally be responsible for about eight VEOs
and would spend at least four days a week visiting them in the field.
Once every two weeks, the VEO would receive a full day of intensive
training in the recommendations for that period (relevant to the coming
two weeks). The AO would also take part in this training session. Thus,
every two weeks the VEOs would spend eight days in visiting each of his
eight groups and one day in training. On one day, the AO would meet all
his VEOs in the field or at headquarters to review progress, reinforce
practical skills and identify topics to be raised at the next training
session. The remaining working days would be devoted to farm trials and
making up for missed visits.
44.        To provide regular training, continuous technical guidance and
supervision of field work, the existing divisional offices under the DOA,
of which there are about three in each district, would be strengthened by
the establishment in each division of a team of three Subject Matter
Specialists (SMS), one being specialized in agronomy, one in plant
protection and one in either commercial crops or the most extensively
grown crop in the division. The SMS would be of the rank of Assistant
Director of Agriculture (ADA). The SMSs would spend one-third of their
time in field visits, providing technical support and guidance to VEOs and
AOs, one-third in building their own stock of knowledge through a regular
dialogue with research workers and carrying out farm trials, and one-third
in participation in zonal monthly training workshops and attending short
training courses. The division would be under the supervision of a
Divisional Assistant Director of Agriculture. Some divisions are rather
large and have as many as twenty AO circles; in cases where a division
contains thirteen or more AO circles, a senior special grade AO with at



-15-
least 15 years of service would be provided to assist in the supervision
of the AO. Twenty-two such positions would be provided.
45.       At the district level, three SMSs would also be provided (one
specialist each in agronomy, plant protection, and training and
communication). These would be of the rank of Deputy Director of
Agriculture in the 10 larger districts headed by a Joint Director of
Agriculture, and of the rank of Assistant Director in the remaining
smaller districts headed by a Deputy Director. They would provide support
to the SMSs in the divisions, and would oversee the training programs in
the district. The district level SMSs would also divide their time evenly
between teaching, field visits and contact with research.
46.       The senior agricultural officer of the district (a Joint
Director in some districts, in others a Deputy Director) would be in
overall charge of the effective implementation of the extension program in
the district. Other regulatory functions, input arrangements,
coordination of schemes like the Small Farmers Development Agency, etc.,
would be looked after by his deputy, either a Deputy Director or an
Assistant Director, so that the principal officer is free to undertake the
frequent field visits necessary to review the extension system's operation
and to guide the field staff in effective implementation.
47.       At the headquarters of DOA, overall responsibility for
agricultural development in the State would continue to rest with the
Director of Agriculture. An Additional Director of Agriculture
(Extension) (Addl. DA) has been appointed for effective management and
technical support of the extension service. This full-time officer will
be exclusively responsible for the day-to-day operations and management of
the extension service, both technically and administratively, including
the training of extension personnel. He would visit the field frequently
and check on the effectiveness of extension operations.
48.       The Addl. DA would have a technical support staff of three SMSs
at headquarters (one each for extension, farm trials and training). These
SMSs would be responsible for improving the technical quality of the
extension service in the area of their specialization, and would develop
and interpret farm trials, promote linkages with research carried out by
the APAU and elsewhere in the country, organize training programs and
serve as a clearing house of technical information. In the DOA
headquarters, there are also three more SMSs with rank of JDA who would
provide technical support to the extension service when required.
49.       In those districts where cashew units have been established to
promote cashewnut development, the units will remain intact to perform
certain specialized functions -- such as selection of land and
participants, orchard laying, assistance with credit operations and



-16-
provision of cashew nursery services -- but extension work will be
undertaken by the new extension service (Section 2.09, Project Agreement).
50.       The project would provide:
(a) Staff. The major part of the staff required to implement
the reorganized extension system will be redeployed within the DOA, and
from the Panchayati Raj Department and the Command Area Development
Department. Incremental staff requirements are for one Assistant Director
of Agriculture, 36 SMSs at district level and 38 SMSs at divisional level,
and 69 out of 75 staff for a monitoring and evaluation cell. The orders
transferring staff have been issued and the budget for additional staff
sanctioned. All required VEO posts would be retained in DOA and used
exclusively for agricultural extension, and it would be ensured that
incumbents' salaries and benefits will not be adversely affected by the
reassignment (Section 2.07, Project Agreement).
(b) Staff Training. The project would provide funds for
pre-season training (3 days) for VEOs, AOs and SMSs, special short courses
for VEOs and SMSs, orientation courses for other staff, monthly district
workshops for SMSs with research staff, and fellowships for prospective
SMSs to take M.Sc. degree courses in agriculture. The APAU would be
responsible for most of these courses, utilizing existing facilities such
as Farmers' Training Centres and Gram Sevak 1/ Training Centres.
(c) Housing. Under the reorganized extension system, extension
workers would be required to make regular and frequent visits to farmer
groups. It would, therefore, be desirable for them to live in or near
their areas of work. The Government of Andhra Pradesh would ensure in
accordance with its existing policy that all VEOs live in or near their
assigned areas of work, either by providing new housing (financed under
the project), encouraging and assisting in obtaining adequate rental
accommodation where permanent housing is available, providing rental
allowances or, in certain cases, providing house construction loans. The
houses constructed under the project would be constructed through the
Public Works Department using standard designs for particular categories
of staff. In addition to about 200 housing units for field staff, the
project would provide for the construction of about four hostels in
training centers to accommodate extension staff participating in the
training program.
(d) Transport. Mobility is essential for effective extension,
both to enable field extension staff to meet farmers easily and
frequently, and to enable technical and supervisory staff to make frequent
1/ General purpose agricultural workers.



-17-
field visits. The project would provide additional motor vehicles at each
division (elsewhere transport facilities are adequate) and funds for their
operation and maintenance. In addition, loans would be provided to VEOs
for the purchase of bicycles and to AOs and SMSs for the purchase of
motorcycles. Loans and travel allowances would be sufficient to encourage
the purchase and use of transport (Section 2.08, Project Agreement).
(e) Equipment. The project would provide funds for extension
aids, including audio-visual aids, for VEOs and AOs and for each
divisional office, as well as required office equipment and furniture.
Miscellaneous extension materials such as diaries, charts, instructional
materials, samples of small implements, seeds and pesticides for farm
trials are also included.
(f) Operating Costs. Incremental travel allowances and
expenses for extension staff and incremental vehicle operating costs are
included in the project.
(g) Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would provide staff
and equipment for the establishment and operation of a monitoring and
evaluation system specifically to provide project management with current
information on the effectiveness of the extension system. The methodology
used will be similar to that currently used in on-going extension
projects, and would supplement direct personal supervision by each level
of project management. GOAP would ensure that monitoring and evaluation
would be undertaken in a form satisfactory to IDA and that results would
be forwarded to IDA annually (Section 2.10, Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
51.       The extension system would be implemented by DOA in accordance
with the organizational arrangements and methods outlined above in
paragraphs 41-49. The Addl. DA (Extension) would be responsible for
day-to-day operations under the overall direction of the Director of
Agriculture. The DOA headquarters would be reorganized to provide
effective management and technical support to the extension service as a
whole, and for training and management of extension personnel.
52.       Coordination at the State level between extension and allied
agencies would be ensured through the establishment of a Project
Coordination Committee. The Committee would be chaired by the Secretary
for Agriculture and would include the Vice-Chancellor of the APAU or his
nominee, the Director of Agriculture and representatives of relevant
government departments and agencies (i.e., Finance, Irrigation and various
input supply agencies). The Addl. DA (Extension) would act as secretary
to the Committee. The Committee would be established and would have held
its first meeting by September 30, 1982 and thereafter would meet at least



-18-
twice a year to review project implementation and resolve any problems
that may arise (Section 2.03, Project Agreement).
53.       For the extension system to function successfully, close
linkages are required between extension and research staff. The APAU is
responsible for the development of suitable new technology, while the
Department of Agriculture will assume responsibility for its dissemination
to farmers, including widespread testing of research recommendations on
farmers' fields. A satisfactory memorandum setting out their respective
responsibilities has been concluded between DOA and APAU. The key link
between them would be the monthly district workshops which would have
three functions, viz., (i) to train SMSs; (ii) to review recommendations
forwarded by State-level workshops and, on the basis of observations and
experience, to adapt them for transmission to VEOs and AOs; and (iii) to
suggest modifications to the farm trial program for consideration by the
pre-season zonal workshop (see para 54 below). The district DDA/JDA and
the Extension Agronomist at the Research Stations would jointly organize
these sessions with the SMSs from the district and division levels. The
Extension Agronomist will organize participation of the university
research staff. These workshops would be held at one of the research
stations or demonstration farms.
54.       Coordination of extension and research would be promoted further
through regional and State committees and workshops. Farm-trial programs
would initially be planned in the district monthly workshop on the basis
of different farm situations in the district and would be executed by the
district or divisional SMS, AO and selected VEO. The pre-season zonal
workshops, would continue to: (a) review and evaluate the farm trials and
formulate a program for the following season; (b) discuss the program for
applied research and location of trials; and (c) screen farm trial results
for determination of the extension recommendations of farm practices for
the zone. Zonal recommendations would be considered at a State-level
workshop to be held before each season.
Project Costs and Financing
55.       The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$9.7 million,
including about US$1.0 million in taxes and duties and US$1.7 million in
foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied
to civil works. Price contingencies of 11% for 1982, 8.5% for 1983, and
7.5% for 1984-86 have been applied.
56.       The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million would finance about
70% of project costs, net of taxes and duties, and would cover all
foreign exchange costs and about 54% of local costs. The balance of the
funds required for the project would be made available from State
Government sources and GOI.



-19-
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Civil works contracts (US$1.2 million)l/ would be small and
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would therefore not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following local advertisement.
About 80 motor vehicles (US$0./ millLion) ot varlouS Lypeb WUU  ut:
required under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities
over five years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. In the
interest of ensuring adequate maintenance and spare parts supply, they
would be procured under existing government procedures, which are based on
local competitive bidding and are satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles and
bicycles (US$1.4 million) would be purchased by individual staff according
to their preference from loan funds provided by GOAP. Orders for purchase
of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.2 million) would be purchased
according to established local bidding procedures, except where valued at
less than US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping
through normal commercial channels. The balance of project costs (US$4.2
million) would consist of training and fellowships (US$0.7 million),
incremental salaries and allowances (US$2.0 million), and incremental
operating expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$1.5 million).
58.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over five years
against: 100% of the cost of training; 50% of the cost of civil works;
80% of the cost of vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials, and of
amounts disbursed for loans for motorcycles and bicycles; and 70% of
eligible incremental staff costs.2/ Disbursements against staff costs,
vehicle loans, training, payments less than Rs 300,000 under civil works
contracts, and payments under Rs 150,000 for locally-procured vehicles and
equipment, would be made against certified statements of expenditure.
Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the
State Government for inspection in the course of project review missions.
Disbursements against expenditures for all other items would be fully
documented. It is recommended that IDA retroactively finance up to US$0.2
million of eligible expenditures incurred after January 1, 1982 for
incremental staff costs, vehicles, and equipment. These expenditures were
necessary to avoid delays in project execution.
1/ All figures in this paragraph are net of contingencies, which amount
to US$ 2.0 million.
2/ Incremental staff costs eligible for reimbursement are those required
to upgrade 1,000 VEOs to ensure uniformity of pay and the additional
costs of 75 incremental ADAs, one upgraded Addl DA, and the incremen-
tal staff of the monitoring and evaluation unit.



-20-
Benefits and Risks
59.       The principal benefit of the proposed project would be to
increase crop production and thus farm incomes as a result of providing
improved extension services to farm families. Approximately 5.5 million
farm families living in the State would be served by the reformed
extension system. Total project costs over the five-year development
period, excluding contingencies, amount to US$7.7 million, approximately
US$1.40 per farm family served and US$0.68 per hectare of cropped land.
Recurring incremental costs after the project development period, whlch
would be met from GOI/State budget sources, would be approximately US$1.5
million per annum, less than US$0.30 per farm family per annum. These
recurring costs would be partially recovered through market levies on
agricultural goods entering commercial markets.
60.       Attributing a precise level of economic benefits to this type of
project is difficult, since it is impossible to determine precisely what
proportion of the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices
is due to extension alone and what is due to past research efforts,
additional purchased inputs, or more work by the farmer. In practice, it
is often the combination of all these, with extension acting as the
catalyst, that brings the desired benefits. However, since the
incremental cost of the project is low per hectare and per farm family,
even small and slow production increases generate a high rate of return.
The proposed project, for example, would generate a 50% rate of return if,
by 1989, yields of foodgrains increase by only about 1% over current yield
levels. In areas where the new extension system has already been applied,
yield increases have far exceeded these levels. Moreover, the messages
initially stressed by the extension service usually focus on improved
agricultural practices (timely operations, good land preparation, proper
seed rates, weeding, line sowing) which involve additional labor but
require little incremental cash outlay. They are thus particularly well
suited to the needs of the small cultivator.
61.       The establishment of a single, unified, professional
agricultural extension service, through the transfer and training of staff
from a number of formerly separate programs, marks a major departure from
past practice in India. The fact that such a significant reform is
already underway in large parts of India reflects a willingness to develop
an extension system capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it
is not easy for governments to carry out such major reforms. The
principal risk, therefore, is that the State Government will find it
difficult to integrate staff from various sources under an effective
single line of command from extension headquarters to full-time VEOs who
work exclusively on agriculture. To reduce this risk, substantial efforts
were made during project preparation and appraisal to re-emphasize, in
discussions with the State Government, the importance of an integrated and



-21-
unified extension service fully under DOA control. In addition, it has
been agreed that the extension posts assigned to and created in DOA under
the project would be retained by the Department throughout the project
execution period, would be utilized solely for agricultural extension, and
incumbents would have their emoluments and other benefits protected
(para 50(a)). While this obligation extends only through the project
implementation period, it is clearly the Government's intention that the
-rn3ion zcform -7'i1 ve a las+-ing one. Moreover, the merits of the
system should be sufficiently apparent to the Government and to client
farmers to ensure its continuation. Staff changes in the upper ranks of
government are frequent, and thus there is the additional risk of a lack
of sustained, informed and motivated leadership, so crucial during the
initial stages of the extension reform. The importance of continuity at
the management level has been impressed upon State officials. In this
connection, the key post of Addl. DA with exclusive responsibility for
executing the new extension system will be maintained.
62.       Experience with the T&V extension system in other States has
shown other potential risks to be minimal. Farmer responsiveness to
recommendations has been excellent wherever visits are made
systematically. The ability of the service to develop and disseminate
recommendations leading to yield increases well above that needed to
generate a 50% rate of return has also been demonstrated. Initially, at
least in most situations, technology has not been a major constraint as
there is a backlog of research findings not widely adopted as yet at the
farm level. Simply spreading already-available technology brings major
yield increases. In order to further reduce the possibility of declining
benefits due to stagnation in crop research or inadequate dissemination of
research findings, the project supports programs of field trials (executed
by VEOs in cooperation with researchers) and promotes a close relationship
between the extension service and the State Agricultural University.
Moreover, Andhra Pradesh is qualified for assistance under a separate
IDA-supported National Agricultural Research Project (Cr 855-IN), which is
directed at strengthening research capabilities to ensure a continuous
flow of research results adapted to specific regional requirements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Andhra Pradesh, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



-22-
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Moeen A. Qureshi
March 9, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABU, 3A
IDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNZZT
INDIA                     REVERNCE p GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVISRAGES
LAND ARUA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                    MOST RECENT ESTIMATEa
TOTAL          3258.6                                HOST RECEbT       LOW INCHIR            MIDDLE INCOHF
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5             1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b  ASIA A PACIrIC            ASIA A PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USU)                 60.0       100.0    190.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILODCZMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)    111.1       152.5    241.8              499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TEAR (TlDUSO.  434850.0   547569.0  659217.0
UgliAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9      19.7      22.0              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IM.                     132.3       166.6    200.5              153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7      308.0    335.8              360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION ArE STRUCiTUE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.1        42.4      41.1              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YES.                        56.8        54.7      56.0              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.1         2.9       2.9               3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.8         2.3       2.1               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                             2.5         3.3       3.3               3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH rATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.2        40.3      34.0              27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.7        17.4      13.5              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1         2.8       2.3               2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEP70RS, ANINUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0     3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        12.0      22.6              20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRIIION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.0       102.0      93.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  93.0        92.0      91.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         52.0        51.0      50.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIHAL AND PULSE      17.0        15.0      13.0              14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NDRTALITY RATE    27.1        20.4      14.8              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2        47.5      51.9              57.7                   64.0
INFANT ORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *       134.0    125.0               89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      33.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                              ..        60.0      63.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                               .         6.0      20.0              20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCEST
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.0      20.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                               .        85.0      87.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                               -         1.0       2.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         4850.4/c   4889.0   3617.4              3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    9630.07T    8296.5   6429.4             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2149.0/d    1612.9   1311.1             1132.8                  588.5
URAN                               ..          ..    363.5              322.3                  579.6
RURAL                               -          *-  10429.1             5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                             5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                             5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.6         2.8
URBAN                             2.6         2.8
RURAL                             2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - WCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUiT
INDIA                      REIEURNCE COUPS (WEImlID AlEW"jS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE S
MOST RICENT       LOIW INCOII            MIDDLE INClOM
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTDIATZ b   Ab IA & PACIFIC            A8IA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADUJusn ENIIOLIENT RATIOS
RIMARY;      TOTAL                 61.0         73.0      79.0               85.9                   99.8
MALI                  50.0        90.0      94.0               94.4                  100.6
I MALE               40.0         56.0      63.0               64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.        26.0       28.0               38.Oj"                33.3
KALE                  30.0        36.0      37.0               34. 67                 58.4
DIEALE                10.0        15.0      18.0               18.0 a                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0           1.0       1.0                3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER PATIO
PRDIARY                            29.0        41.0       41.0               32.S                   34.2
SECONDARY                          16.0        21.0         ..               19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.4      36.0               52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PA !UI CUS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7          1.1       1.3                1.7                   12.7
iMAD10 RCIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.9        21.5       32.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RBCZIVZRS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0         0.0        1.0                3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERZbT') CIRCULATION PIR
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0         16.0      16.9               14.6                  106.8
CIMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3       3.8                3.4                    4.3
LABOII FORCE
ALLIUOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
IDEAL! (PERCENT)                   31.2        32.4       31.9               29.3                  37.4
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0        74.0       71.0               69.8                   50.2
INOSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         11.0      11.0               14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.6         40.3      38.9               39.7                   40.2
MALE                                 58.0         52.6      51.3               51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                               28.2         27.1      25.7               23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1       1.1                1.1                    1.1
INCOMZ DISTRIBUTION
Ph;RCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED bY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7         26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7         48.97;.   49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          6.77       7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27T    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI1ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     132.0              134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                ..           ..     114.0              111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URbiAN                               ..           ..        ..                 ..                 249.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 ..                 234.3
ESTIMATELI POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.3               41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.7               51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mnans.  Coverage .of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/a   China included in total only.
L    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



A31 I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL.1           !
Notes:  Although the data are draw   ErIsur             eeo   Iy ugd the eo           . suthoitsti-  it reliable, It  bha1i  else be se.I Ibat  be, -  eat be  atr
nautunolly comparable b-cae  of telc  of st,cdecdlssd defaittneno  concep. uSby tternettee  ssete abte                                                   Thda    nse.-
chl.e I.   fo  to.  dtcrh Id   dera of  tgiod,ldlnst  trends, * sd ch-r-ctei.e corteg   -Jaj  dttffesas  hnsaaaile
Thn reference groups are Ill the  as  conr  gopo  the subject co-try ad (21 a noree   grst with eaesntt hklbe   -neV  iag                               s t     tba ne.se   gnat
eaco-oiurl  ffoicel.Inthe referenc  grou.p done the t-argee ap"pI              aeto -labtat -artotit  -ee   fee sek i.mtiaeeaa                aos~.amy  lo
eajority of the c..untrim  in   groop hoe data for rha  indic-cor       inre the  __rgg  of orwtrios sn-g  the tadiretarm  tpAtea  the astl~ula i    of tate
and ie  o   nfr,cuinse   eeece                      i  rL ltiiuerge  of one todloetor toeath-r   Thes  -vsege  ar  neW  .am.t in rt gata  the raise of
oneindcaor  t atis an  the ca-ntry sad r-fermereI grooup.
LAND AOEA (thuitan d eq.kn.l                                                                          anoiwncfoein   e       oi  etr   a   um                        FpwPI.ist     (tatel
To-u  - TuttsrfcI        cn.1preo  lan    re   ndIld ...ate                                          ,ehse  ma  etrul  thrust_ by            remeree  oelo et  bee Aeot hate
forcrps,peon,          sat  r  hthe   udeos o  to lie fali1-; 1978 date.                         hbitesa    ntr.Npdaeag mfiletpegi msEd
by at Isaa nag pkyafaia. Emf"lukgte prea,dieg psimedaly estee-
lOP PER CAPITA (tS$) - loPpe  cap toei as -1tertmacoet    rk   pie,a                                   dial caer -ns- isaiata.  hani Iep.ai. boosmar  toejei  halib
rolaned by tame9 ronv-reir   ethod em  nn W-       nk Atam 11977-79 hasil  1960.                     eat eaitm   uere   sa         5~     IF  ufoS by a pbrafeist  (bet: by 
1970, ed179dte.                                                                                      mediu  seeteotam.are  sitets  Rate.) Sale eSe  lgads1aem
d.tOr, met penelt  g ilmiegm"e   at iSiaml ten' Sega   pe   nat
rNEtGY CONSUMtPTION POt CAPITA - Aertual  --sapni-oo   oarileeg   ca                                   tical parpama  soba  bopietla ieelai              pt-IIegqlSrel bnegttaia,
end lignite, P-"r'-a, ntrigee dhyr-,.nut.;    so60d gertersa  eler                                   a    -te.Ia h-pitmi% lana  -  ete  hemptkal. St   iietl  aio ltnifty 
ticiy)  intloru  ofca   qiaetparcyiu  it.90.ad 1979                                                 astene,  gpertliieS bePit'ls sea iSelettsiyetrdae
dstu.                                                                   dA~~~~~~~~~~~~isaa    ero Sineettl Net - Int-   .ar  gEe.eaeto -  dganboogms
Fee  he-pitale dti-aiedh  the         erd ad beta.
POPULATiOn ANl PITAL. STATlSTICS
Total Porolation. Kid-Yea  (rhou....ide) - Ae of July 1; 19h0, 1970, and 1979                    fNN
dste.                                                                                            Aaeaagie  d  aisaai  lsess rebeeh!                     f-tem"Me~e   a  "Oal
Orhbr Population lorrt      tofc 1e) -Ratio of urhan to torI1 populetico;                            A bseal   aait   t     ne  ator            ~     leseSn   fea~t
different defnrreo   reana   a    fn                  ceasfiit   f  ae                                  gete emir meal.  A bea"Rta  aa ietm   flyn   fy sa4t be  slated" is
..naro tnine ; 1960, 1970,ad 17  date                                                          th   ertbedfe           tiatigmi peewem.
FPoplru  in pee  2000 - Corrau  popuation projactiona  ars buse.d or 16heofP.esspr.n.sa...a,atese espa  Oneta
to  lppuainb  ant-an   In and nhel  srtality and f-rtilityranIeI.                      tailisge, rspeottineIy.  Dallieg    -Idta  me-panMeoo aisseere   -
log life soPnois_Y ef birth i-rnai-g with  ourtre Par cPita Lnroe                             A.us.e tn slenanIatar lerst aoelieao sgl   es.  "  aa -a
lee, adfnr.al  life erpot.niy atabiliaiog af 77.5 y.eare.  7he pare-                          C-soteiasldeslee  dl 4lentafatey  IshleImeg qaartse  am Pseastegs
wetarn  fur f-rillty rats also hare three1- laels -uiog dultra  in                               of ltntl. arhan, nod rs.eIafesllega  -apeottisly.
farIli,ty tooding to iocos  lanai and poet Easily plannIng perIrstn
I          Lhconryi  then eaigned.oreIof Obeeh L  -birtnioni-  of noctaity             OUAI
and fertility i_end  for projeonion purpome.                                                  Aiaa    eoiatKt
btatononroolaio-Insrtlct duot  popo,InLIn thane1::  lngronthelc                             'rsn   aso    Iagt. sae etEael  -Nlas                 oatl      lso -d famed.
tha birt.h reI  I   qual t  h  An         at,ad alan ohr Ieroror-                                    -ornf-ee  of oil egge  tepian,ee  ne P..e.stseofrespett
emins c tn ttn.i ThisI II achinred only afte  f-rtililop rann  declineI noPrIasy ahnlesP.pltrn;eeelyitlderfleugt6l
the replace..n.i lee o.   f unt ne  repraduotior  atn, eh.. each  yaertanpnr  hot sdjoated forp differet lZEaghe of prisany  dtueetioe; for
of  -oe  rnpls.ea ifaelf w-utly.  The stati-oay populattineisrs                                    couer..    wt  oiars  aoato    -wr -Ise, may ejered 100 perneot
e-isatd cn the bumit of the prnjeoted chraterietice of the populnoirnanaes  pp                                          r   aieo   hn  the ofiria1 auhol ag. -
inthe per    l, aud the rtne of da-tso   etl          ityrt   vrpine-..o.er  aohonl -  oa.ml edfml   Cosputd we ahev; eatoonder
sent level.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~education require. en 1_me  four peer  af  rpprord priotyaLp  tIetroi-s;
vaerator lnuo  roruintlcis. L.Ia..hnd - Th. yea   het ttatioary populatIon                           Pr..vidm  mnn-i vorstin .-o  lteaher truiwig i-et-otln   Oar pwpiLk
nine h.. abhea   -ahnd.                                                                            ..Ue lly uf 12co1  ysar  of aSel.;        nsprdscacorsesI. are .ganerlp
Per mo.  Mn     id-year  upolacion  par aqure hilneet-r (120 h-ct-a) of                            Ioaielariletlorn   f eaoasterr   Vansti-ea  itetiouti..e
totl ara 91,1970  Id0 1975 data.                                                                   inolode n-nbir1, industria. or  ther P-oge-  ntihb nperaO   irdePast-
Per en. :ce, anri-ulct-al 1n-   - cosutd! Iaohote for ngnti-alt.r.  load                             tatly or as dnpertmett   of eaoway  Itesttwiats.
only; 1961. 197  1co  197  data.                                                                 Putrli-taha  rati  - rrear .as           nsrv- Toa-          taet  enrolle  in
Pooano  fu  Orruntor  (.Ite -ea    - CMildrn   10-l0 ..ra.  oolcwgag   (5                        priwar  an  smondop-   Irele dIvided by tReherm  of teanher  in the
64 Yee,a), and retired  ts pnara a ad  -ce) am p-rce-tae  of eid-r..r papa-                           ora   -win   evl..
lto;1960, 1970, aud 1979 data.                                                                Adult liteayre(ncnt- Liwaert  adults (ehia an read and mite)
'ncaio   rwh Rate Irerceui  - 2toa 1- Arnau  grouc-h ratee of Itota  sid-                      awP.roInag   of tona  aul  papelttaw  agd 15 py.ae. w.d arer.
yer platuooeY fo1950-61, 1 960-7D, and 1970-79.
PoruatuI  _rat  Ratelotrenn   -orhat - AnnuaIl-goth reen  of urban pop-                        COtliOt5TfdlS
laclwe  ur  951hO,191-77. endi 1970-79.                                                    Pa.-uanCane (n-  tho.....dPr..ato)    oiaeageo c-ce  -oPrl-n  -1-
Crude Biirth Rate  re  oh._and ) - Anua  11cr bitrha per  houeand of aid-ya-a                        -ar   -etiw  lame ohen might Penau; monidas aebolencee  hasreem  med
popcls.tihon; 16.1970, ard 1979 dor.                                                               silt tar   _ahilie..
CrdeDethDaa   En ihceed) - Annual deatba Per thu ...tde of aid-year                      Rdto     . tni-era lRrr_nhruead wproletiw) - All types of rn eefor radio
Populaniot; 1960, 1970, end 1979 data.                                                             hr..sdoa-  t o g -Ira  publif per thoneedIof poputisto;  nniudes n--
CrossDrcos-i.n tat.AVheca   noe Iof daughteresocs-    itll heritlcnsdr.enr  in Louweta  e  in perml  when rgartof n  radl
her ..r-a  r-y-nuti-e pecd if a ee           Pe-r-soren  see-apcii  fer                            scs-a  In sfft; d            It.fo  reese  yewr  -Y me banerrshaern
tiltop   ates;  mualipf irr-yar aneates eding it19 191   1970,an 1ii"979..             erioutie othdlotm_iug.
Pasylr  lanoaaAocrroe  Anul(bomnm)-Aaalwse  of arreygo.e                                         TV ecI...s IFst Ihor d Ponalpttol-  Vrosnr  for honadoast 
of birth-ootrl  eoe-         ud1  topae  o  nnotal ftly Plann   porw.gnna   uil   a  thoumud Ppuplitiow ;j erludom  unlirawed TY.recire"e
'Jsi   .. Plnine -_(aa  orer-fmare  os     - Perr..nIEge of earned                               itcuwrtead LA yan-  nhn regi-aatloo af DVetee    It  ffeott.
unm      hcid-b-rrae   (15-clyase n..        us I  urc-con-t-  darce  oaweeirfroloo lrer f-oa-nd roolettoe                                           h- tretearrnc
oil irrtd   -e  1I eae.ag  goP.                                                                ruiwof "daily generalo"                                WIeaeeappr   sfla    eproia
publication darottd primmeily at ea-ariag   serI=ns    It as r.-idt.re
FOOD ANDo oRTaItON                                                                                     to he "dully' tf it epp..re at  .est Poo  tIIe   e asek.
Idea  of FondPrdctiope  Capita (69-71-100) - Laden of per capita anea                              Citrs coA-al Atteadece  -s  aeta tea Tsar - Na..d Os tba obr  of
pedn  o    f sifn  ceoile       rdotiwn nocludee tead wad feed nod                          richer, mid daring the yea. feladieg atelatom  t  drt-i.st  cien
ito   aOrYear .ee...  C:ooodirtoe. coeI     riaygo    eg  eugaosran  erbile .nIn..
ireteed of ana) ohich are adible sod cnn-Irntntne(..cfe   r
tee ac  ea_ludd,l .hAgretoon prndactaon of eac h  oanvrly is hated onABOR FORCf
national     Pcra   pndue   IItIe neinht; 1961-65, 1970, and 1979 dare.                      TtL Labo  forc  (thousad.) - aawae.lciy entire P..--e.laitg
Pan narta aupic of clorlee(rerrat n   reccswt) - CoPord    oe                d f.             Id   im   en   smplayed ho   aldn urssle,avdne   t.
mare  equie let of  et fod suplls  Uriebl  in coutry  s  ..Pita                         cnoeing population of all  sg...  Definlti-w  1enro.             orwre   r
per_daY.  OA-ileble suppline roaprise do-esti           , pduior, isporne lea                   nt onpr-ble; 19b0  1970 eat 1979 data.
ro re  nod rhangen In anok.  NatIL       l e   n loeanml  ed, aaede,                      Pe-al leret)                    b-a ao  force as p--nsnge of rte..  Labor tie;.
q=anitiwe used in fund PIro...eing. end beset. ur distribution.Ilequle                          eiutua(              ) - Laoro force in faaia.6  hwtr,            -ewiwg aed
e Icnresiardh 60hwdcopyionie  needI fornna  anti-                                             fIehn   as      - pretegn of traal labor frr; 1960  1970 sat 1979 data.
ctanhrlth conidering ..vro. uoolotep-ntu-, hdy oaighns,  aeI ar   aran    L.heI foc In:1  minion   earur, I--afatrg
adeadtruticn of p-p ti"to   - I.1 an   llwn  10           E prc -O or Iset             end eettiy  n nsd ge.w  perneneane of tonal labor forc; 1960,
bor.a.hold ln-ei; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 data                                                   1970 end 1979 dana.
Per c"P"t  soUrly of crum    (aneP., dan) - Protei. cntc  of Per capita                         Psrttctnat loa   aeIanei-ttl   al .dea  feale - Pnrriitpatlw  or
net euppiy uf food per dn..  Net no.P"l  of fund is dafioodase bc.-   he-                        acrily rate  arermata  as namiomle. aat fsa1e  leh   fnree
quiree= s  o  all ou1 rrin   established by 15D0 pnn-ide fototo n-                               p-ar.ent.aae   of noul I ale an -d fI"ea pernIieti    of eli a8 sea  eeprti_ey;
alissoa   I 60 gran  of  Inte  poocain prr day  ad'  F_ pn   of anlgI od                         1960, 1970, and 1979 dane.  Tbse.arehead ow fILOsJ  ;tartireo   rates
Pulee Plowot, of nhioh 10 gran  nhould be aclsa  prorei.  Th..n. ad-reIece iwaaesn   tutr  of the pnpwlattne, and len   I-m  red
ard  ore lone  thao thoan of 75 grawa of cotl poteuad 13  rs -of1I                               fe     i .m en  ape .fro   eatloi- snns
aIslpreraarsraafrnrwrdpryed by P                                    L0Iu the  hr              icroi leedrn R Pact  - Ratio of popolti-n uader 15 end 65 urd pe
oR.Id Pood nurne; 1961 -lu. 1970 and 1977 date..t   the  -un1 lohcr forc.
Pa   itf    rtIneri    "c nslad ruee- Protein suPPly offod de
Child (anne 1-07 Pornllin Date tn h--ouau) - Annua  deatha per thnumoed in                         Perce-t- of Pricaco Inc...   (both io Isah ood Clod) - ORolur-d bhycirhesi
age group l-4 ...a  to. chIldre IIv th. age  r...p; fun  -acdevloping coon-                        5pI percet, riches  20pret  poores  2D percent, and Poua   40 percet-
toiaa date derIved Ifu   ilatble;1960, 1970 and 1979 dana.                                         of ho.eeholda.
tonecourst  mItlra,s        u...a.  nober of -r-r  of lofe re-irot                   ThvONYf!I TA-lOinly
si bith; 196   1970 anf 1909 dat.                                                                  nodenid he iuterprnedotn   coneidreIe  cautIon.
Dutt ntlctne Ipr  chuad  - Aunu..l denihe of infants under one yea                      fetae    brooPrro   ie   ee   09nrcnIe      ra   n   ua
ofaell        hrsn   lv   hithn..                                                                   Abslolte povery iLose  lana  t  rhI   Inca-  lanai ba1- wIchi   a minisi
Acoeeioiaf  Oatp  (rorrr of oo'           aiu(ti     o l.  - uban, and rura   N- u-                 n         :1i1oaiYadrnat  diet       I pl -  ns .ta  wo-Pro.d requireets  La Oot
he   f pri  lnIr t- urha, and rral) nub..... beeoalescatncef                                     ff-rdwl.2P-
no prenly (nldsrrodnnaeaewo   noae funcroIaodetd                                           tnletad Rnlali- Pnet -Ocm   Lonal (US    rcnnl-  ra  andrua-
natrnobe   la   fospoorto   hceotr -opina,an  noiaroala   a               tR-irean         p-nery irroe leve  is onethird of enaePer cpine
f.ountain orendocloar    u   ne   c20wtr  ironooumesay hblerl rlh  adjeneat fo  hlahar cost of -l.                                                I Lon d.indefban  ucete.
:i~~~ d--blI~~~~~~:,I-  of th., h..run...Pacen  ofpoplatoai-raaEndtura(  hodreLheoot
do pot ho on cc ryrdocItp..o.yoriio...   yar o.If ldr dsp Ic fetchIng the                          pour'. ILo  ...io(b.-                                  I               .l.
..sberoIy-aop-,-no          --a ..u..... nruo i wr_roedcacre-t   dsoelas-
percentages    l            -I-   ufter-e-riepplior.-.fobyen . dIapa  any'.Includ
Pcar_IPEstaipl.Iiota.d
ciere ounifld focea edu-     l shoo a11   ~ilhno- rit  l-E-neD-.Si1  I.  ii
Prrlsio   pr_  ..ur ...na   Pnro . opulation diolded by  ..eber of pra-nici
sgesderlerduanct rre.pc-nri-Ianu                      ..eae.



Annex I
Pam 4 of 5
ECOAIC D3WIOllT DIIA
GlP PU CAPITA IU 1979 U55190
a0go$  UTIOXAL PrWCS IN 1979/S0                                                                            UT.   OF 01RITN f. constant or mesS
UB  SIR           7           1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65    1965166-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75    1975/76-1978/79
GNP at mark t Prices                    134.16         100.0               3.7                 3.6                  3.6                 2.8                  4.5
Gres DoesetiLe lvestmnt                  29.24          21.8
Gross National Saving                    28.55          21.3
Currant Account Balance                  -0.85         - 0.6
OUTPUT. LUOh 108Cg AID PODUCTVITY Il 1978
V-lu  ede(at factor cost)  Labor Farces                      Worxe
US9 81n.M7 Hil          %                             %fi  7 of lational Averase
Agriculture                          39.8               39.6            181.3     71                220                56
Industry                             25.5               25.3            28.1      11               906                230
Srvtee                               35.3               35.1            46.0      18                767               195
Total/average                       100.6              100.0           255.4    100                 394               100
COVIUS1" F1ImCi
Conaral  Oernt                                                  C-ntraCvq_t
JE W          1972180   1975176-                                1979/80       19791BO    1975176 1979/50
Current Receipts                    208.18          19.2           18.9                             108.96          10.0           10.6
Current 8raendituree          0                                                                     117267         i  l      O
Current gurplue/Daficit               1.74          0.2             1.2                             - 8.71        - 0.8
Capital gspendlturee    /            81.81           7.5            7.4                              56.93          5.2             5.1
Internal Assietanc  (net)  j/          7.97          0.7            0.9                               7.97          0.7             0.9
ItOIIY  OM1 AIID PRIC8               1970/71     1971/74      1974/7l      1975/76       1976177     1977/171      197t/79      1Zi7im       DnbeT  1979    DRember tIO
(Rs Sillion outtatnding at end of period)
ontey and Quasi Money                 109.6        175,7        194.6       222.9          272.8        329.1        398.9        448 2            448.1            521.7
lank Cr dit to Govarnent (net)        52,6         87.3         95 3         101.1         110.2        134 7        153.9        192.2            176.4            231.4
lank Credit to Cinrcial S ctor    646             107 0         126.7        151.9         185.0       212.2        253.5        306.5             294.7            335.9
(Percentage or Index Numbere)                                                                                 ApiZU     1979    Aeril-e D    19tO
Money and Quesi Komney as    of GDP   27.2          29.8        27.9         30.2           34.0         36.5         40.8         43.1
Wholsoale Pric  Ind
(1970/71 - 10)                     100.0        139.7        174.9        173.0         176.6        185.8       15.8         217.6            212.2            253.5
Annual percencage changes in;
Wholesale Price ladez                   7.7         20.2         25.2        - 1.1           2.1          5.2                      17 1             14.6              19.5
Saak Credit to Goverrnnt (net)        10.8         12.3          9.2          6.1           9.0         22.2         14.3         24.9              24.9   /         31.2  I/
S"ek Credit te Cmemrcial Sector    19.4            22.6         18.4         21.5          20.2         14.7         19.5         20.9              17. 5  j         14.0  IL/
J/  The per capita G0P estimte  is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World  aank Atlas, 1979.
All other converions to dollars in this table ar, at the average excbange rate prevailing during the period covered.
k/ Quick Estimates.
S/ Ce_ted fhon trend line of 03?r at fector coat series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
IL/ orld lank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official fig4rs.
S/  Transfers betem  Contre and States ha   bees netted mt.
LI All loans sd advances to third parties have been   tted mt.
A/  Percentage cbhge from end-Dec_mber 1978 to end-December 1979.
L/  Percentage change from end-Dec_er 1979 to  nd-December 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYKUTS                     1977/71      1978/79    1979/80 J  WO/81                   cHADUSll sEa       Amu       197677-_19
Exports of Goods                        6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998             Engineering Goods             766 I/       11
Imports of Goods                       -7,188       -8,519    -11,249    -15,624               Tea                           462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873       _1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626               Ge                            605           9
NFS (net)                                  691         773         633         463             Clothing                      460           7
Leather end Leather
Resource Balance                        - 182        - 768    - 2658    - 6.163                       Products               425           6
Jute manufactures             284           4
Interest Paymnts (net)  J                - 89         - 35         350         303             Iron Ore                      298           5
Other Factor Parents (net)                  -           -           -           -              Cotton Textiles               289           4
Met Transfers |/                        1,077        1,216       1,458       2,462             Sugar                         132           2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                806          413       - 850      -3.398
Total                      AIM 175
Official Aid
Disbursmnts                          1,628        1,695       1,891      2,389              ZESIAL DiBT. MARCI 31. 1980
Amortization                         - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                  USS billion
Transactions with 1IF                   - 330        - 158         -         1,035             Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.6
All Other Ite                             617          286       - 143         133             Undisbursed                                 5.7
Outstnding, including                      21.3
Increase in Reserves ()                -,076        -1,534       - 222         548                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               5,823        7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (eand year)  J           5,668        7,357       7,579       6,691             DEBT SERVIC  RATIO FOR 1979/80  WS/J  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                     ISKD/IVA LuDDI    DECOOEt 31. 1980
Imports                                 1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                  USS million
of whicht Petrolem                   1,811        2,043       3,977      7,012                                                 D          ID
Exports                                    32           24          26         n.O. Outstading snd Disbursed                     806         4,895
Undisbursed                       572         3,547
Outstandiug, including          1,378         8,442
Undisbureed
RATE OF EXCIUHGE
June 1966 to *id-Decedber 1971           US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
)id-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979              US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980           . US$1.00 - Re 7.930
Re 1.00 - USS0.126
Ji Netiuted.
J/  Figures given cower all investenet inces (nt). Major payments  rer interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to mr, end major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
Lt Figures given include workers r_itt_an           but aclud  official grnt  ssistace, which is
included within official aid disbursemets.
/  Excludes net use of Dl  credit.
/ Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
a/ Amrtisatiom  and interest payments on foreign loans as a percntage of exports of goods and services.
ApriL 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981) 1/
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal                                                     IDA     IDA
Credit   Year of                                                   (US$    (SDR
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank       Credits) Credits) Undisbursed
45 Loans/                                               1,515.98        -
72 Credits fully disbursed                                   -    4,065.4
342-IN    1973      Education                               -        12.0                2.42
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Processing & Marketing         -        13.0                5.01
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0         -                 9.15
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                         -        30.0               15.80
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                     -        83.0               28.16
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                         -        27.7               12.37
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                    -        16.4                4.70
585-IN    1976     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply               -       40.0                13.47
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                     -       105.0               17.09
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                   -       150.0               40.11
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.            -         4.0                1.46
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development           -        18.0               10.23
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation             145.0         -                74.58
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0         -                10.77
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0         -                21.59
1313-IN    1977     Telecommunications VI                  80.0        -                 16.09
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0         -                 7.36
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development               -       30.0                22.06
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development               -        20.0                6.98
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                 -       150.0               36.81
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development    ,           -        24.0                4.08
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research          -        12.0               12.00
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                      14.0         -                 7.23
712-IN    1977     M.P. Agric. Development                  -        10.0                5.10
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation               -        23.0               13.49
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development          -         8.0                5.46
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                  -        70.0               28.83
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension              -        13.0                6.84
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                       -        58.0               25.71
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      79.2        -                  7.81
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage                -       107.0               77.58
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II           -       87.0                19.11



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal                                                      IDA     IDA
Credit   Year of                                                    (US$    (SDR
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank      Credits) Credits) Undisbursed
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                             -         8.0                 6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector               25.0         -                12.87
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power           105.0         -                53.99
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                     -       117.6               76.35
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                      -       200.0              126.45
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture               -        14.0               13.75
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                       -        85.0               62.96
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                 -        17.5               13.97
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                        -        16.0               14.97
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII                120.0         -                46.76
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                           -       150.0              130.60
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                   -       196.0              182.09
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                       -       111.0               39.98
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                         -       190.0              145.84
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage           -        38.0               20.17
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research           -        27.0               24.82
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension         -       25.0                15.86
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                     -        30.0               15.55
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               50.0        -                 50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                 -      200.0               170.31
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                        -      129.0                98.57
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                 -        48.0               44.06
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II           -       175.0               95.54
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry            -        23.0               18.39
947-IN    1980      ARDC III                                 -      250.0                23.24
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                         -        20.0               19.52
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II                -      210.0               170.70
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry               -        37.0               29.62
981-IN    1980      Population II                            -       46.0                45.22
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                     -       32.0                30.44
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                           -        18.0               16.56
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                    -       175.0              164.42
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                     -      300.0               278.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                                -        22.0               21.65
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension            -       10.0                 9.81
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport                 -        56.0               53.71
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                    -       54.0                52.38



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal                                                      IDA     IDA
Credit   Year of                                                    (US$    (SDR
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank      Credits) Credits) Undisbursed
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                          -        80.0                76.65
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                     100.0         -                66.71
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  25.0         -                25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                    -      225.0               201.16
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0         -                 28.92
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                       400.0         -               379.77
2050-IN*   1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                  100.0        -                100.0
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                        -          -        30.6   29.8
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                        -         -         72.4   72.4
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II              -          -        37.3   37.3
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                   -         -        128.9  128.9
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                  -         -        288.9  263.6
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation                -         -         49.8   49.8
1125-IN*+  1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project                -          -       368.0  368.0
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.            -         -         21.6   21.6
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.             -         -         26.2   26.2
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II                -         -         34.7   34.7
1146-IN*   1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                  -          -        116.5  116.5
1172-IN*+  1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II         -         -        372.7  372.7
1177-IN*+  1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation          -          -       223.4  223.4
Total                                      2,931.2   8,511.6    1,771.0
of which has been repaid                 1 103.4       84.6       -
Total now outstanding                      1,827.8  T,277        T,771.
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.3            0.5         -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/          1,827.4   8,427.0    1,771.0
Total undisbursed (excluding *)              818.6   2,925.3       664.3
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Net yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan     Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6       0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0       1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.0       8.6
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         136.7       11.9    148.6
Less:   Sold                          26.0        1.7      27.7
Repaid                        22.6         -      22.6
Cancelled                       -         1.3      7.5
Now Held                      81.9        8.9     90.8
Undisbursed                   66.1        1.5     67.6



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION l/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through September 30, 1981 totalled US$164 million, representing an
increase of about 6% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$4,408 million as of September 30, 1981, reflects the lead time
which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27. 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 19/b
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry ProJect; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975' Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 19U2
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer ProJec   US$400.0 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed. Credit 1125 is
proceeding satisfactorily with initial implementation and procurement actions
proceeding to schedule.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December_31, 1982
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project' US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 197,; Effective hate: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 197b;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981,
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
With respect to the second project, early project implementa-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned
under the first project are being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development ProJect: US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18. 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closins
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy ProJect; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, thirteen subprojects have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Cor-
poration and a further five subprojects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway
though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of
project operations.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12. 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974i Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project;  *S$145.0 million loan (Trd Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11  1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 197; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irri.gation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
Aril 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; 9Closing   te: September JU, lYZ
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977i Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   RaJasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16. 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension ProJect; US$28 million credit
of May 7. 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular, significant gains
have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in govern-
ment brought a review of the organizational principles underlying the new
extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a
Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the
project, revised implementation plans have been prepared, and project
activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly in key



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
supervisory and managerial posts, are severely hampering project implementa-
tion; a review is underway to reassess whether the project can be implemented
as intended. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Com-
posite Agricultural Extension Project, field work is off to a good start.
In Kerala, project implementation began in three of eleven districts after
some initial start-up delays. Early progress on civil works and initiation
of the program in the remaining eight districts will be required to regain
the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, project
implementation is encouraging. Project review missions are helping sustain
project momentum.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time. Some of the coconut rehabilitation areas are being
changed based on the demand of credit from the farmers.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of December 1981, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, the construc-
tion program has progressed slightly more slowly than anticipated due to
shortages in supplies of steel and cement. Disbursements have been progress-
ing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets. Credit 1146, which was
signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construction of cooperative
godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to support the pre- and
post-harvest supply and marketing requirements in nine States; promote the
development of cooperative institutions in these States; and expand coopera-
tive subproject preparation and appraisal activities within the cooperative
sector. Project implementation has been slower than anticipated, and disbur-
sements as of December 1981 are considerably less than projected at



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
appraisal. NCDC is taking steps to ensure that adequate preparatory work is
done in all nine participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project' US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: J~anuary 10. ,_L97Y
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. Further studies are underway to assess the
socio-economic impact of such investments.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry ProJect; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities are progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
financed and delivered in service. Total fleet strength has increased from
1,530 buses at the inception of the project to nearly 2,000 buses, in accord-
ance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion has lagged somewhat
behind fleet expansion, but caught up in November 1980. However, delays in
construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. As a result, the loan closing date has been
extended by three years. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat behind
schedule, although now proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of works
under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on
the important early procurement steps. However, financial and managerial
performance is lagging behind expectations and must now receive project
authorities' full attention if physical and financial performance targets are
to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The first year program of rural road construction is underway. The
whole project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to
improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's
overall rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is being
delivered.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
As of July 1981 when the first of these projects was last reviewed,
the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries ProJect; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Projt; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Ln. No. 2076 Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date (expected): April 6, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. Loan 2076 supports the development of the second
stage of the Ramagundam plant, involving the construction of three 500 MW
generating units. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been
carrying out construction and operation of these power stations. Loan 1549
is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata Electric
Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast load growth
in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects are
progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works are
on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the implemen-
tation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
180; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation proceed-
ing satisfactorily in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh--in all major components except construction activities which remain
about 18 months behind appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project is designed to expand cashewnut production in the States
of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. The progress in cashew
plantations as well as other components is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition ProJect; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loa-n of September 12, 1980 Effective Date: November 18. 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded, and
consultants are preparing feasibility reports of other watershed schemes.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Kar-
nataka. Start-up activities have commenced.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Loan not yet effective. Tendering for major equipment is underway.



ANNEX III
page 1 of 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About six months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Andhra Pradesh assisted by Bank
Group staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
January 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 1, 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
May 15, 1982.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOAP to fill staff positions in accordance with an
agreed schedule (para 41).
(b)  GOAP to transfer cashewnut extension to the new
extension service while maintaining other special
services to cashew growers (para 49).



ANNEX III
page 2 of 2
(c)  GOAP to ensure that agreed extension staff positions
would be retained and utilized only for extension
throughout the project period, and to ensure that the
emoluments and housing benefits of extension staff
would not be adversely affected by reason of the
reorganization (para 50(a)).
(d)  GOAP to ensure that loans and travel allowances are
sufficient to encourage the purchase and use of
transport (para 50(d)).
(e)  GOAP to set up Project Coordination Committee by
September 30, 1982, this committee to meet at least
twice annually thereafter (para 52).



| w ) at.oov ~~~~~AOO                                            ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTU RAL EXTENSION  PROJEC ---
Al     #'2      AIA3D                            -JAGRICULTURAL RESEARCH FACILITIES AND TRAINING CENTERSV-+
i,~~~~~~/ KARMNGA
~~ } HY D E R~~~~N AMAB AD  /                                   NA LGO ND  A0   (f    SODVRIKAKU
t S X^s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A                  0 0 c,                                      'o   0   0 s@> '!r$
s~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                       VIAHPTA                                             ISKURNO-   RKSA         tMx   iho
J    t                 OCI            .Cnt
Z   <         /                     <             t                      .   o f       .                      DierrieA. .,pet  000s
=      S- =/ -tx                <- 1_ J     ~     _                   :                                   -*6-SIKHAMMAM  EASs
]   >  <    0       ttL   .............  ,      <                              IAII6I,                   | 0   \               /A,S..d, P.,
77-   t   78-   79-   ot 80-  1   8}-            82'             1y3-                     '.  .             <1 64~~~~~Dve* wt   d DmwwtimF.  



