Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3615-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
March 9, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
I~~~~~~~~__    



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        Rupees (Rs.) 9.21 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA         -        Assistant Director of Agriculture
Add'l DA    -        Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO         -        Agricultural Extension Officer
AO          -        Agricultural Officer
APAU        -        Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
BDO         -        Block Development Officer
CADA        -        Command Area Development Authority
DAO         -        District Agricultural Officer
DDA         -        Deputy Director of Agriculture
DEA         -       Department of Economic Affairs (GOI)
DOA         -        Department of Agriculture
DOE         -        Directorate of Extension (GOI)
FTC         -        Farmers Training Center
GOAP        -        Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI         -        Government of India
GOWB        -        Government of West Bengal
GSTC        -        Gramsewak Training Center
HYV         -        High Yielding Variety
ICAR        -        Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICRISAT     -        International Crop Research Institute for
Semi-arid Tropics
IDA         -        International Development Association
IRRI        -        International Rice Research Institute
M&E         -        Monitoring and Evaluation
JDA         -        Joint Director of Agriculture
NARP        -        National Agricultural Research Project
RRS         -        Regional Research Station
SGAO        -        Senior Grade Agricultural Officer
SmS         -        Subject Matter Specialist
SPPI        -        State Plant Protection Institute
T&V         -        Training and Visit
VDO         -        Village Development Officer
VEO         -        Village Extension Officer
VLW         -        Village Level Worker
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/ An exchange rate of US$1.00=Rs.8.0 has been used in the cost tables
of this project.



-i-                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        BACKGROUND  ................................................... s.               I
A.  General .................................. 0     ......    ..0...... o.      I
Introduction         ....................1................... 
Agriculture in India .............................................         I
Agricultural Extension  .....................  ...                        2
Existing State Projects..........................so                        4
B. The State of Andhra Pradesh.                        .                        8
General Description  ....... ......                              so..      8
Agricultural Production  ............................                      8
C.   Agricultural Services in Andhra Pradesh                                    9
Extension Services .9.                                                     9
Training .,......... ..,.,, 0.......          ........  ...... ......     11
Research    ............................  .            ....... * * * * * *  11
Input Supply ..............   ..    ...                                   13
Credit       ......... *.....  ..............................             13
Mfarketing ,............................ *.  ...0..                       14
II.       THE PROJECT ...............................                                     14
A. General Description  .....                         .     .      ......14
B. Detailed Features ........  14
Extension Methodology  ............................. .                    14
Incremental Staff Requirements                      .         .          17
Housing ....... ......    . ... . ...                 ...     . . ..      18
Transport    .. . ... . .                           ...     .......  18
Equipment .......... ........ l, .......                                  19
Operating Expenses   .            . .        ............... *            19
Training                   .    ...... .......                           19
Monitoring and Evaluation ................ ........ ..                    19
III.      COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING  .              ................ ..........        20
A.   Cost Estimates  .........              ............................       20
B.   Proposed Financing ......... . .  .................. ..*  ....... so.     21
C.   Procurement  ...  .... ......... ............ .... .............          21
D.   Disbursement and Audit  ........ O..* ..........                          22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Ats contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
IV.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................    23
Extension Service **********.*************************         23
State Level Coordination         ..............................    24
Linkages Between Extension and Research ................       24
Farm Trials ******..*****...............................    26
Training ......... ,,,,.                         . .......    27
Monitoring and Evaluation .......a.....................        28
V.      BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......................    28
Economic Benefits ....  ........... . . . . . .. ........................ .    28
Project Risks ............ ..... ..........0........................    29
VI.     AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........    30
ANNEXES
1   Table 1         Summary of Project Costs
Table 2         Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives
Table 3         Civil Works
Table 4         Incremental Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5         Incremental Operating Costs
Table 6         Training Costs
Table 7     -  Monitoring and Evaluation Cell
Table 8         Requirement of Extension Staff By Year
Table 9         Staff to be Drafted from Panchayat Raj Department
2                   Training
3   Table 1          Implementation Schedule
Table 2         Estimated IDA Disbursements
4   Table 1         Economic Analysis
Table 2         Economic Price for Paddy
Chart 1 - Organization Chart - World Bank 23339
Chart 2 - Linkages Between Extension and Research - World Bank 23340
MAP
IBRD 16103



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
Introduction
1.01      The proposed project would be the twelfth in a series of
IDA-assisted projects designed to reorganize and strengthen agricultural
extension in India.1/ Under the project, the Government of Andhra Pradesh
(GOAP) would reorganize its extension service to provide farmers, on a
regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date advice on farming practices
best suited to their specific conditions and capable of having an
immediate impact on production and income. This would be achieved by
strictly programmed visits from regularly trained field staff, supported
by professional advice from the Department of Agriculture and from
research.2/ The project was prepared by GOAP with assistance of staff of
the Bank's Resident Mission in India.  Appraisal took place in May/June
1981. This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. R.J.G. Le Breton, G. R. Galgali and Karam Singh
(IDA), and B. Mishra (Consultant).
Agriculture in India
1.02    The area of India is 3.29 M km 2 of whLch 55% is cultivable and
about 25% of the net cultivated area irrigated. India's population of
over 680 M is growing at an annual rate of about 2.0%. National Income
1/ The eleven previous projects are described in the following appraisal
reports:
Assam Agricultural Development, Cr. 728-IN
West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research, Cr. 690-IN
Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research, Cr. 737-IN
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research, Cr. 712-IN
Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research, Cr. 761-IN
Orissa Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 682-IN
Composite Agricultural Extension (Haryana, Gujarat and Karnataka), Cr. 862-IN
Kerala Agricultural Extension, Cr. 1028-IN
Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project, Cr. 1135-IN
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project, Cr. 1137-IN
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project, Phase II, Cr. 1138-IN
2/ The main principles of the proposed extension reform are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training & Visit System (World Bank,1977)



-2-
has grown at nearly 3.5% per annum since 1960, and the per capita GNP
reached US$190 in 1979. Although average per capita income has increased,
there has not been sufficient improvement in the living standards of the
vast masses of urban and rural poor. Thus, GOI's development plans give
priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment, especiaLly in
rural areas.
1.03    Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and
contributes about 40% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and
provides the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last
decade, Government of India (GOI) develoment plans have emphasized
agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain production by increasing the use
of irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and seeds of
improved varieties. In support of this, GOI has modernized and expanded
its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated the development of
irrigation. More recently, increased attention has been given to the
establishment of improved extension services and upgrading the research
capabilities needed to support this extension effort.
1.04    These efforts appear to be bringing significant results.  Over the
past decade, foodgrain production has grown at about 2.75% p.a., suffi-
cient to meet consumer demand, eliminate imports (which had averaged
nearly 5 million tons per year for the 15 years preceeding 1976), and
lower real foodgrain prices to consumers. At the same time, India was
able to build up sufficient buffer stocks of rice and wheat to cope with
the 1979/80 drought with comparative ease, and to export about 0.5-0.6
million tons of rice in 1980/81.  Some wheat imports were necessitated in
1980/81 reflecting problems of stock management rather than any serious
production shortfalls. Greater efforts will be required to maintain and
further improve this pace. Moreover, per capita production of a number of
other important crops, including cotton and oilseeds, has fallen during
the decade. Furthermore, India's agriculture is particularly susceptible
to the vagaries of weather and foodgrain production can vary as mtlch as
20% between successive years. Although expansion of irrigation faLcilities
to reduce this variation remains a priority, GOI recognizes that the bulk
of India's cropped area and over half of its farmers cannot, in the
foreseeable future, benefit from water-intensive agricultural tech-
nologies. Moreover, although much appropriate research is available,
yields under rainfed conditions have shown little or no improvement over
this period -- a fact which prompts this project's emphasis on rainfed as
well as irrigated farming.
Agricultural Extension
1.05    State Governments have direct responsibility for agricultural
extension; they operate through their Departments of Agriculture (DOA),
generally with the cooperation of other state departments., While
organization varies between states, the extension service is generally



-3-
headed by the Directo- of Agriculture who reports to the Secretary of
Agriculture. He is assisted by staff located at state, divisional and
district levels. The Collector (the senior representative of the civil
administration at the district level) coordinates activities between the
various agencies of government, with the District Agricultural Officer
(DAO) representing DOA. Below the district level, Agricultural Extension
Officers (AEO) generally report on routine matters to the Block Develop-
ment Officer (BDO), an official of the state Community Development Depart-
ment. In some states, locally elected councils (panchayats) also play a
role and the BDOs are responsible to these bodies. Given the multitude of
local activities and lack of direct administrative control by DOA, AEO are
often diverted to non-agricultural activities. The village level worker
(VLW), a multipurpose worker, is supposed to spend 75-80% of his time on
agricultural extension under the direction of ithe AEO. However, the VLW
is administratively responsible to the BDO and the lack of a well-defined
agricultural program, combined with the demands of his other activities,
generally result in his spending very little time on agricultural exten-
sion. The same is generally true of the AEO. What little extension work
is done is neither planned systematically nor supervised adequately. 1/
1.06    Over the years, dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of the
multi-purpose worker for increasing agricultural production has led to the
development of a variety of special programs focusing on particular crops,
areas, or techniques. Staff employed under these schemes are usually
under the administrative control of various subject matter departments of
DOA. In a given state, such schemes usually cover only a few districts
and only part (e.g., one crop) of the farmers' operations. These schemes
have tended to dissipate extension efforts in many uncoordinated direc-
tions and divert attention and resources from the need to reform the main
line extension agency.
1.07    In addition to the organizational probLems mentioned above, the
extension service often suffers from inadequate and outdated staff train-
ing. Moreover, there are usually too few staff- to cover the farming
community adequately and they lack sufficient mobility to reach farmers
systematically and regularly. Furthermore, government owned housinig is
scarce and rented accommodation hard to come by. Additionally, linkages
with research have been tenuous and irregular. All these factors have
hampered effective extension work. They have resulted in slowing down of
agricultural production, with most extension personnel having low status,
low pay and poor morale.
1/ This situation exists in states not coverecd by the Training and Visit
System of Extension.



-4-
1.08    With yields in irrigated and rainfed areas remaining at levels
well below potential, GOI has become increasingly concerned with improving
agricultural extension. A new system of extension -- the Training and
Visit System (T&V) -- based on frequent and regular farm visits by
full-time, adequately trained extension personnel was developed in 1974
with IDA assistance. Under this approach, a substantial portion of the
multi-purpose VLW is transferred from Community Development Departments to
DOA to work exclusively on agricultural extension. The results from the
Chambal Irrigation Scheme in Rajasthan,1/, where the system has been in
operation since 1974, were so encouraging that the approach has sub-
sequently been adopted in twelve states under the projects discussed
below.
Existing State Projects
1.09    The Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.
737-IN, US$13.OM, effective in February 1978), was an outgrowth of the
favorable results obtained with the new approach to agricultural extension
pioneered under the Chambal Rajasthan Command Area Development Project
(Cr. 562-IN effective September 1975) and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area
Development Project (Cr. 502-IN, effective December 1974). The Government
of Rajasthan is presently reorganizing and strengthening extension and
supporting adaptive research to serve 2.9 M of the state's 3.7 M farm
families in 17 districts where an immediate potential for improving
agricultural production exists. Project implementation has picked up
rapidly. Farmers have responded favorably to the system, and adopted new
practices like seed treatment, basal dressing with fertilizers, and inter-
cropping with kharif pulses which have helped them grow a good crop even
under drought conditions. There is now a need for more intensive work by
researchers to develop more sophisticated technological packages since
farmers have developed confidence in the extension staff and respond
favorably towards adoption of new techniques and skills.
1.10    As a result of experience with improved extension activities in
the Chambal Irrigation Command Area, Madhya Pradesh requested IDA assis-
tance in extending the reorganization of agricultural extension services
to cover both irrigated and rainfed areas in 15 of 45 districts in the
state (Cr. 712-IN for US$10 M, effective September 1977). Progress was
good in the early stages of the project, but slowed down later due to
frequent changes in project management. The major problems noted by the
early supervision missions were staff shortages, slow construction of
buildings and houses, inadequate liaison between research and extension
organizations and slow implementation of the T&V system, althougbL district
1/ This covered 84,000 farm families and 360,000 hectares of which about
two-thirds is irrigated.



-5-
phasing had proceeded as planned. Despite the slow start, there has been
considerable improvement during the past year and almost all posts, both
in research and extension, have now been filled. Having overcome cumber-
some bureaucratic tendering procedures, the buiLding program is now gain-
ing momentum. Liaison between research and extension has been well estab-
lished resulting in a substantial involvement of research workers in
training extension staff and with greater emphasis being given to resolv-
ing farm related problems within the overall research program. In a
recent survey, 75% of contact farmers were aware of the day of visit of
the Village Extension Worker (VEW) and almost all could identify him by
name. About 81% of contact farmers have adopted at least one of the
recommended practices.
1.11    In project districts, there has been a 300% increase in the use of
clean and graded seed, a 35% increase in the planting of seed of improved
varieties aaud a 28% in the use of seed dressings. Fertilizer use, both
under rainfed and irrigated conditions, has increased 66% over 1976/77
levels (as compared to 48% in other districts of the state) and the use of
soil testing facilities increased by 69%. A project to extend the T&V
system to cover all remaining districts of the state was approved by IDA
in April 1981 (Cr. 1138-IN).
1.12    Eastern India, including Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal, is
the country's "rice bowl". Despite its high potential, foodgrain yields
are low and production has barely kept pace with population growth. The
stagnation of agricultural production has been partly due to the inability
of the extension service to give meaningful advice to farmers; similarly,
research has failed to focus on need of majority for simple, low cost
means of improving production. Orissa is the first state to reorganize
its agricultural extension service throughout the entire state (Cr. 628-IN
for US$20 M, effective June 1977). Virtually all of the state's 3.4 M
farmers are now covered by the program and, according to recent supervi-
sion missions, good progress has been made, farmers have responded well
and have accepted, on a widespread basis, new practices for increasing
production, e.g. introduction of mustard as a new crop, seed treatment,
and use of manually operated seed drills. In addition, supervision mis-
sions have reported favorably on the way extension messages are reaching
even the remotest villages.
1.13    During the preparation and appraisal of the West Bengal Agricul-
tural Development Project (Cr. 541-IN, effective August 1975), which
supports minor irrigation development in a portion of the state, one of
the major constraints to agricultural development was identified as a lack
of effective agricultural extension. Consequently, the project included a
component to strengthen extension in six districts along the principles
established in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Areas. The initial impact
of extension reorganization was so favorable that the state decided to



-6-
expand the coverage. This was provided in Cr. 690-IN, for US$12 M, effec-
tive August 1977. Initially, the project was highly promising: 2,400
multipurpose workers were transferred from the Community Development
Department to the control of DOA and were trained in the dissemination of
specific messages for farmers and, together with DOA technical staff,
worked with farmers in identifying and solving field problems. In the
latter part of 1977, however, a new Government of West Bengal (GOWB)
suspended its earlier decision to place the VEWs under the administrative
control of DOA pending a thorough review. This drastically reduced the
ability of VEWs to visit farmers regularly, and extension operations came
to a virtual halt in most of the state. GOWB has now re-established the
single line of command, placing all extension staff under DOA, thus remov-
ing the major obstacle to project implementation. Although recruitment
and training of new VEW has started and some VEWs have begun field work,
the tempo of work has not yet reached former level.
1.14    Under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN for
US$8.0 M, effective September 1977), Assam became the third state in the
eastern region to reorganize its extension service. The project now
covers all of the approximately 1.9 M farm families in Assam's plains
districts. In the first districts covered, improved farm practices such
as the line transplanting of paddy, use of HYV paddy, increased area and
higher yields of HYV wheat and increased consumption of fertilizers
resulted. In the more recently covered districts, the effects of exten-
sion work are already starting to be seen. Unfortunately, political
unrest in Assam during 1979 and 1980 severely disrupted the field visits
by both VEWs and supervisory staff and led to serious deterioratioii in the
quality of work. The Government of Assam is now trying to rehabilitate
the project.
1.15    Under the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.
761-IN for US$8.0 M, effective May 1978), through reorganization of exist-
ing staff, some 9,000 VEWs were to reach all of Bihar's 7.6 M farm
families. The progress so far has been disappointing with the poists of
Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agriculture being
vacant for a long time, and the extension system has been in operation in
only 16 out of 31 districts. However, as a result of constant persuasion,
the post of Director of Agriculture was filled in the latter part of 1981
and that of Additional Director of Agriculture in January 1982. The
Government of Bihar has since renewed its commitment to the reorganization
and prepared a new timetable for implementing the project according to
which all the districts would be covered by 1985 and vacant positions
filled accordingly. It is expected that the project will now gain momen-
tum.



-7-
1.16    The Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN for
US$25.0 M) became effective in December 1979. Under the project, the
government of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka have undertaken the reor-
ganization of extension services in their states. The project also
includes strengthening of the capability of the Directorate of Extension
(DOE) of the GOI in order that it may assist all states in the implementa-
tion and operation of the reorganized extension system. Extension
activities are going well in Haryana and Karnataka. In Gujarat, the
quality of extension work is not uniform. While in some districts its
impact is highly effective, in other districts, it has suffered from
inadequate supervision by the State Department of Agriculture. The State
Government has been urged to remedy the situation.
1.17    The Kerala Agricultural Project (Cr. 1028-IN for US$10.0 M) became
effective in June 1980. Project implementation started only in three
districts and further expansion to cover the remaining eight districts has
been held up because of indecision at the political level. The newly
installed government in Kerala is considering proposals to go ahead with
the reorganization to cover all eleven districts of the State. IDA and
GOI are following the situation closely.
1.18    To cover two other states on the same pattern, the Maharashtra
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1135-IN for US$23.0) and Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1137-IN for US$28.0) were approved
by the Board in April 1981. They are in the first stages of implementa-
tion.
1.19    The beneficial-results of the system are not being achieved with
equal success in all areas due to local problems. The decision to trans-
fer control of considerable numbers of multipurpose extension workers to
the Department of Agriculture and assign them to work exclusively on
agriculture requires a major political commitment and reorganizational
efforts.  It has been difficult for some state governments to make this
decision and maintain it once made. In addition, the absence of timely -
financial sanctions, tardy staff recruitment, and protracted procedures
for acquisition of land have sometimes slowed progress, although these
problems have now been overcome in most states. Encou.raged by the impact
which the Training and Visit system of extension is having in areas where
it has been successfully operating, GOI is seeking to bring about similar
reorganization throughout all states in India. The DOE of GOI has taken
the initiative to help states overcome initial difficulties. Although
these projects are demanding in terms of IDA supervision, their great
potential for sustained increases in food production and incomes for the
rural sector justifies continued IDA participation.



-8-
B. The State of Andhra Pradesh
General Description
1.20    Andhra Pradesh lies on the southeast coast of India and, with a
population of 53 million, is the fifth most populous state in the Indian
Union.  It is also the fifth biggest state in India, with an area of
276,814 square kilometers, and divided into 23 districts.  About 11.3
million hectares are cultivated by 5.5 million farm families, with an
average farm size of 2.1 ha; 47% of the total number of farm holdings are
smaller than one hectare.  Agriculture is the most important sector of the
State's economy: it contributes 55% of the net domestic product and
employs 70% of the labor force.
1.21    There are three main regions of Andhra Pradesh of historic:al and
ethnic significance: the Coastal Andhra region which covers the 8l north-
eastern coastal districts, the Rayalseema region that covers 4 southern-
most districts and the Telengana region covering the remaining eleven
western and northwestern districts of the Deccan plateau, including the
state capital, Hyderabad. The most fertile area of the state, the Coastal
Andhra region, has a good proportion of deltaic alluvial soils, black
cotton soils and red soils with a clay base. The southern distric:ts have
either black soils, black cotton soils or red loamy soils, while much of
the Telengana region has red earths. Good knowledge of the resource base
exists for the success of the extension project.
1.22    The State is served by two major rivers, the Krishna and Godavari,
which pass through Andhra Pradesh towards the Bay of Bengal, irrigating
36% of the gross area sown. Most of the cultivated areas in the state is
rainfed. The main rainfall pattern is established by southwest monsoons
(June to September); the highest rainfall, averaging more than 1,000 mm a
year - falls in the northeastern coastal districts, which also benefit
from the northeast monsoon from October to December to the extent of
one-third of the annual rainfall. Rayalseema region in the state is the
driest, where irregular and ill-distributed rainfall barely averages 550
mm a year. Nearly half of the state is classified as a drought prone
area.
Agricultural Production
1.23    Andhra Pradesh is a major rice producing state where two c:rops of
rice are taken a year: in 1978/79 the state produced about 7.4 mjillion
tons of rice of which 5.3 million tons were from the kharif (monsoon) crop
and 2.1 million from the rabi (winter) crop. The rabi crop gives higher
yields because of higher insolation and fewer pests and diseases. The
second most important crop is sorghum, of which 1.4 million tons were
produced in 1978/79; about 60% of this was grown in the rabi season.
Pearl millet (368,000 tons in 1978/79) is the next most important crop,



-9-
followed by maize; 360,000 tons of maize were produced in 1978/79 in a
fairly concentrated zone covering four north central districts of Telen-
gana region. Sugarcane, cotton, tobacco and groundnut are also grown in
important quantities.
1.24    In agriculture, the Bank group is assisting GOAP with a composite
irrigation project (Loan 1251-IN), Godavari Barrage Project (Cr. 532-IN),
a fisheries project (Cr. 815-IN) ani a cashew nuLt proJect (Cr. 1012-IN).
Andhra Pradesh also participates in some Bank gIroup financed projects with
a national coverage: National Seeds Project (Ln. 1274-IN) National
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-IN), National Dairy Development
Project (Cr. 842-IN), Drought Prone Areas Project (Cr. 526-IN), National
Cooperatives Development Corporation Project II (Cr. 1146-IN), and Third
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Project (Cr. 947-IN).
C. Agricultural Services in Andhra Pradesh
Extension Services
1.25    Agricultural extension in the State operates under a diarchy.
Although the DOA is responsible for direction and guidance of the exten-
sion program, it is executed through the Development Blocks and Panchayat
Raj Department. The Panchayat Samiti which is a body of elected repre-
sentatives from the Panchayats is headed by an elected Chairman. BDO,
ordinarily an officer of the State Administrative Services, functions as
the Executive Officer of the Panchayat Samiti and simultaneously reports
both to the Samiti and to the District Collector. He is responsible for
all development programs including agriculture at the block level, and in
agricultural matters, is supposed to be advised by the Divisional Assis-
tant Director of Agriculture (ADA). In the blocks designated for inten-
sified agriculture, the BDO is assisted by 3 Agricultural Officers (AOs)
and by 2 AOs in blocks with less intensive agriculture. Non-intensive
blocks have one 'Village Development Officer (VDO) for every Panchayat;
intensive blocks have double the number. The number of VDOs is not
related to the number of farm families or the geographical area. The VDO
is a multi-purpose worker; theoretically devoting 80% of his time to
agriculture; but in practice, unable to devote more than 10% of it to
agricultural work. He reports directly to the BDO. At the Revenue Divi-
sion level, an ADA assisted by 2 AOs is responsible for the administration
of agricultural programs. There are, in addition, some AOs in charge of
special schemes, not all of whom report to the Division but are directly
under the ADA or Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) in charge of the
scheme. Of the 23 districts in the State, 10 aLre headed by Joint Direc-
tors of Agriculture (JDAs) supported by DDA, an,d 13 are headed by DDAs
supported by ADA, who are mostly in charge of commodity schemes, farmers
training centers, seed farms or adaptive research stations in the dis-
trict. They operate through their special staff of AO, Sub-Assistants and



-10-
Field Assistants who function outside the administrative jurisdiction of
the Panchayat. The JDA/DDA report to the District Collector so far as the
Panchayat Samiti extension programs are concerned and to the Director of
Agriculture in all others. The district JDA or DDA has very restricted
financial powers, but the District Collector has been delegated financial
and administrative powers concurrent with the DA. Recently, for the
coordination of agricultural programs, six Zones headed by Senior JDAs
have been constituted. They are yet to be vested with effective
administrative authority.
1.26    The Department of Agriculture has continually added officers to
its staff including Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) on an ad-hoc basis
as special needs arose, such as Intensive Agriculture Development Project,
Intensive Agricultural Areas Project and Commodity Development Schemes
(Cotton Development, Tobacco Development, Pulse Development, Cashewnut
Development, Sugarcane Development, etc.). Most of these schemes have
their own field level extension agents and are administered by thte
Agriculture Department through their own heirarchy of JDAs, DDAs, etc.
Till recently, lines of control of these schemes converged only at the
State level. With the posting of DDA or JDA to head the district agricul-
tural administration most of the schemes are now under the supervision of
the District JDA or DDA. At the divisional level, however, lines of
control still remain parallel in respect of some of the schemes. Even-
tually, the Department of Agriculture has come to possess a sizeable
organization comprising supervisory officers, technical experts and field
level staff and has progressively found it more expedient to work more and
more on its own, outside the purview of the block. Thus, while one line
of administrative control passes down from the Panchayati Raj Department
through the District Collector to the Panchayat Samiti, the other line
passes from the Agriculture Department through the JDA, DDA, ADA to the
field level. The DOA on the one hand is responsible for advising the
Panchayat Samities in matters relating to agricultural extension and on
the other executes and administers directly a host of other schemes out-
side the purview of the Panchayat Samities. With the reorganization of
the extension services, it will not only be necessary to rationalize the
administrative lines of control within the Department of Agriculture but
also to delegate to the zonal JDA, if not to the district JDA/DDA, the
same authority as is now vested in the District Collector, while the
Director of Agriculture retains only the residuary authority for planning,
budgetary control, direction and supervision.
1.27    The Government of Andhra Pradesh has, for the last four years,
been implementing the reorganized extension system in the command areas of
the four irrigation projects covered by the A.P. Composite Irrigation
Project (Ln. 1251-IN). Supervision reports on the extension components of
these projects have consistently reported that the system is working
poorly. The reasons for this appear to be:



-l1-
a.  poor supervision;
b.  isolation of extension staff in the command areas from the
rest of the agriculture department and from research; and
c.  failure to secure the complete release of extension workers
from non-extension duties.
The project would overcome these weaknesses.  By making the Agriculture
Department, instead of the Command Area Development (CAD) Department,
responsible for its execution, the officers responsible for supervision
would have a direct interest, whereas in the command areas, the agricul-
ture department officers are not muich interested in supervision work for
which CAD Department is ultimately responsible. The isolation of staff
would also be reduced since they would no longer be seconded to another
department; at the same time, the research linkage with the agriculture
department would be strengthened and the university (responsible for
research) would no longer have to provide extra services for isolated
pockets of intensive extension in the command areas, but could integrate
these in its overall intensified work. By the transfer of Panchayati Raj
Department staff to the Agriculture Department throughout the state, it
will be much easier for the department to ensure that extension staff are
no longer diverted from extension work.
Training
1.28    The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University (APAU) has six con-
stituent colleges - three in Agriculture, two in Veterinary sciences and
one in Home Science. The three Agricultural Colleges are located, one
each at the three campuses, viz. Rajendranagar, Bapatla and Tirupati. The
intake for B.Sc. Agri. is 400, for M.Sc. Agri., 100 and Ph.D., 24 per
year. There are 15 Farmer Training Centers under the control of the
Department of Agriculture, imparting training on crop production technol-
ogy and allied subjects to farmers and farm women. There are four Gram
Sevak Training Centers (GSTCs) under control of Panchayati Raj and
Development Department where VDOs receive higher training and refresher
courses periodically. Such refresher training and special short courses
for VEWs will be given by the Agriculture Department staff seconded to the
GSTCs.
Research
1.29    Agricultural Research in Andhra Pradesh is the responsibility of
the APAU. It is well organized and it has been further strengthened and
systematized under the IDA-assisted National Agricultural Research Project
(NARP). The State has been divided into seven agro-climatic regions, each
with a Regional Research Station (RRS). Each RRS has 4-5 Satellite Sta-
tions. There are now 45 Research Stations which mostly emphasize single



-12-
crop research and are able to put forward some reliable informationi on
cropping systems for the use of extension. The tribal zone is excluded
for the present. Each RRS is headed by an Associate Director, suplported
by a number of scientists in different disciplines. An Extension
Agronomist of APAU is presently provided at seven locations to colLaborate
with DOA. The Department of Agriculture also operates demonstration
farms. In all these farms a good deal of experimental work is undertaken,
mostly of adaptive nature, but also included are experiments which would
appropriately constitute part of the Applied Research Program. WiLh 45
stations under the APAU and 36 under the DOA, and many well trainedl and
competent scientists, Andhra Pradesh possesses a well developed
infrastructure for agricultural research and it produces considera'ble
research information in different fields. It would, however, seem that a
realignment of responsibilities is needed between the APAU and DOA
research programs as there is some overlapping, and some of the findings
are not directly applicable to field situations.
1.30    The DOA holds two pre-seasonal workshops at Hyderabad whic'h are
attended by APAU scientists and the DOA scientists as well as the exten-
sion personnel and which formulate the statewide program of research of
the DOA. This workshop is preceded by Zonal workshops convened by the
Associate Direct-ors of the RRS. The technical cell in the Department of
Agriculture meets more frequently but the APAU scientists do not attend
the meetings regularly. The APAU research program for the year is formu-
lated in April-May of every year in a large meeting of APAU scientists at
the main Research Station and Regional Research Stations. Department of
Agriculture and Extension personnel are not adequately represented in the
meeting.  In the absence of continuous feedback from extension, APAU
research, though of a high quality, does not have as great an impact that
its potential allows.
1.31    The major constraints to agricultural production at present are:
a.  the large area of the state in which rainfall is low and
uncertain; and
b.  frequent cyclone damage in coastal Andhra.
For low and uncertain rainfall areas, technology is being developed both
at ICRISAT and under the All-India Dry Land Research Program, and there
are already a number of recommendations to be extended. There is a strong
research base throughout the State where applied research and adaptive
research are underway. Sufficient research information is being generated
by the research to give useful extension messages to the farmers. With
realignment of responsibilities between the University and the Department
of Agriculture, and involvement of the extension staff in developing
future research program, the process of developing extension messages,
relevant to farmers' needs will further improve. In a state-wide system,



-13-
with different ecological zones and different classes of farmers, there
will be a need to further strengthen the research infrastructure to get
quick research on its way for more messages, and also close the gaps in
areas where the research is currently weak, for example, rainfed farming
areas and cropping systems research. However, NARP is stepping up its
efforts to strengthen these weak areas of research.
Input Supply
1.32    The distribution of fertilizer is mainly channeled through some
8,000 private dealers who handle about 60% of the total 600,000 tons of
fertilizers consumed a year. The remaining 40% is distributed by state
agencies (the Agro-Industries Corporation and State Marketing Federation)
whiich have their own outlets and distribute through primary cooperatives,
and by the Agricultural Department itself. The Agriculture Department is
however gradually withdrawing from this activity in favor of other agen-
cies, and is only maintaining depots in areas where no other agency has
yet come forward.
1.33    The average annual consumption of pesticides in Andhra Pradesh is
about 130,000 tons of which less than 10% is distributed by the Agricul-
ture Department.. There are about 10,000 private dealers, 700 outlets of
the Agro-Industries Corporation and Marketing Federation Corporation,
about 600 cooperative-outlets and about 600 agriculture department out-
lets. The latter are intended mainly to meet sudden emergency demands for
pesticides, and many of the outlets are only opened during the cropping
season.
1.34    Seeds are mainly handled by the Andhra Pradesh State Seed Develop-
ment Corporation, which is gradually taking over seed production that was
primarily done by the Agriculture Department on its own seed farms. The
Seed Corporation, which was set up in 1976, has not yet developed a com-
prehensive marketing organization, so the Agriculture Department is dis-
tributing in 1980/81 paddy (8,500 tons), sorghum (800 tons), millet (250
tons) and maize seed (300 tons) to the farmers. In each block there is a
panchayat seed store operated by Department of Agriculture staff. These
will continue to function, but phase out, when the State Seed Corporation
is equipped to completely take over the seed marketing operations.
Credit
1.35    Cooperative agencies provide most short and medium term credit in
Andhra Pradesh, total about Rs. 1,000 million a year. It is channeled
through 26 district cooperative banks, spread over the entire state. Long
term credit is provided by the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Development
Bank through primary agricultural development banks. Commercial banks are
also an important source of credit to farmers.



-14-
Marketing
1.36    The State Marketing Board controls a number of regulated markets
and sub-markets where traders are licensed and produce is inspected,
graded and weighed according to standards laid down by law. The State
Civil Supplies Corporation purchases paddy at prices established by the
Government.
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01    The five-year project seeks to achieve early and sustained
increases in agricultural production throughout Andhra Pradesh's
twenty-two agricultural districtsl/ through the reorganization and
strengthening of the extension service of DOA. The project would support
this reorganization by:
a. provision of transportation (16 cars, 65 4-WD vehicles, 874
motorcycles and 7,000 bicycles), office equipment and
audio-visual aids;
b. provision of incremental operating funds, travel allowances,
vehicle operating costs and extension materials;
c.  construction of housing for extension workers and hostel
accommodation at training centers;
d. provision of funds for training of extension staff at dif-
ferent levels;
e. provision of incremental staff, and incremental salaries to
up-grade 1,000 posts of VEOs; and
f. creation of a monitoring and evaluation capacity through
provision of staff, transportation and operating expenses.
B. Detailed Features
Extension Methodology
2.02    Under the project, Andhra Pradesh's agricultural services would be
reorganized and intensified throughout the State (see Map, IBRD 16103)
1/ Excluding Hyderabad urban district.



-15-
following the Training and Visit System adopted in other Indian States
over the last four to five years. The project would provide farmers, on a
regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date advice on farming practices
best suited to their specific conditions and emphasizing proven practices
which have an immediate impact on income. This would be brought about
by organizing extension field staff so that they visit farmers regularly
and receive systematic training and technical support from DOA and from
research institutions.
2.03    Each Village Extension Officer (VEO) would be assigned to work
with a number of farm families. The number would vary depending on local
conditions, population density, cropping intensity and accessibility.
Based on available statistics which probably overstate the number of
families, one VEO would cover about 800 farm families. In effect, one VEO
would cover a number of operating farm families that would vary from
around 600 in sparsely populated areas to around 1,000 operating farm
families in densely settled areas.
2.04    To reach his farmers systematically, a VEO would divide the
operating families in his jurisdiction into 8 smaller groups of 80-120
each.  He would visit each group regularly on a fixed day of the week in a
two-week cycle.  During his visit, the VEO would concentrate his efforts
on about ten contact farmers selected from each group, involving as many
other farmers as possible in the discussions anLd demonstrations. By the
concrete results he achieves with the farmers he directly meets, the VEO
can spread his recommendations more effectively to all farmers.  During
each visit the VEO would concentrate his efforts on a few strategically
selected recommendations relevant for that particular phase of the crop
cycle. The extension message to be communicated to farmers at the initial
stage would be simple, concentrating on the few important crops in the
locality and of the most important aspects of crop production practices at
that time. Initially, emphasis would be on low-cost improvements which
the majority of farmers can afford within their resource capabilities.
2.05    The VEO would be helped, guided and supervised in his work by an
AO who would normally be a graduate in agriculture. One AO would be
normally responsible for about 8 VEOs and would spend at least four days a
week visiting them in the field. Once every two weeks, VEO would receive
a full day of intensive training in the recommendations for that period
(relevant to the coming two weeks). The AO would also partake in this
training session. Thus, every two weeks, the VEO would spend eight days
in visiting each of his eight groups and one day in training. On one day,
the AO would meet all his VEOs in the field or at headquarters to review
progress, reinforce practical skills and identify topics to be raised at
the next training session. The remaining working days would be devoted to
farm trials and making up for missed visits.



-16-
2.06    To provide regular training, continuous technical guidance and
supervision of field work, the existing divisional offices, of which there
are about three in each district, would be strengthened by establishing
in each division, a team of 3 Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), one being
specialized in agronomy, one in plant protection and one in either commer-
cial crops or the most extensively grown crop in the division. The SMSs
would be of the rank of ADAs. The SMSs would spend one-third of their
time in field visits providing technical support and guidance to VEOs and
AOs, one-third in building their own stock of knowledge through a regular
dialogue with research workers and carrying out farm trials, and one-third
in imparting training to VEOs and AOs. The division would be under the
supervision of a Divisional Assistant Director of Agriculture. Some
divisions are rather large and have as many as 20 AO circles: in such
cases, therefore, whenever a division contains 13 or more AO circles,
another officer would be provided to assist in the supervision of the AOs.
This officer would be of the rank of a' senior selection-grade AO' having
more than 15 years of service. Twenty-two such positions would be
provided.
2.07    At the district level, 3 SMSs would be provided (one specialist
each in agronomy, plant protection, and in training and communication).
These would be of the rank of ADAs in the districts headed by a Deputy
Director of Agriculture, and of the rank of DDAs in the districts headed
by a Joint Director. -They would provide support to the SMSs in the divi-
sion, and would oversee the training programs in the district. The dis-
trict level SMSs would also be required to divide their time evenly
between training, field visits and contact with research.
2.08    The senior agricultural officer of the district (a Joint Director
in 10 districts and a Deputy Director in 13 others) would be in overall
charge of the effective implementation of the extension program in the
District. Other regulatory functions, input arrangements, coordinating
schemes like the Small Farmers Development Agency, etc., would be looked
after by his deputy, either a Deputy Director or Assistant Director, so
that the principal officer is free to undertake the frequent visits neces-
sary to review the extension system's operation to guide the field staff
in effective implementation.
2.09    DOA will establish six positions of Senior Joint Directors of
Agriculture, each of whom would be in charge of a zone comprising three to
four districts. They will be responsible for extension operations in all
the districts in their zone, as well as for input supplies and regulatory
functions.
2.10    At the headquarters of DOA, the overall responsibility for general
agricultural development in the state would continue to rest with the



-17--
Director of Agriculture. An Additional Director of Agriculture (Exten-
sion) (Add'l. DA) would be appointed for effective management and techni-
cal support of the extension service. This officer would be exclusively
responsible for the day-to-day operations and mnanagement of the extension
service both technically and administratively. He would also be made
responsible for training and management of extension personnel. He would
visit the field frequently and check on the effectiveness of extension
operations.
2.11    Before negotiations, GOAP established the post of Add'l. DA,
filled this position by a suitably qualified officer with full-time
exclusive responsibility for implementing the extension system and with no
other duties.
2.12    The Add'l. DA would have a technical support staff of three JDAs
at headquarters (one each for extension, farm trials and training). These
JDAs would be responsible for improving the technical quality of the
extension service in the area of their specialization, and would develop
and interpret farm trials, promote linkages with research carried out by
APAU and elsewhere in the country, organize training programs and serve as
a clearing house of technical information. Irk the DOA headquarters there
will also be 3 more SMSs with rank of JDA who would provide technical
support to the extension service.
Incremental Staff Requirements
2.13    Staff required to implement the reorganized extension system in
Andhra Pradesh would be met by redeploying the staff already available
with DOA, Panchayati Raj Department and Command Area Development Depart-
ment, and by hiring new staff. Detailed brealkdown of the staff require-
ments and availability by district and subdivision is given in Annex 1,
Tables 8 and 9. The details of salaries and incentives of incremental
staff are given in Annex 1, Table 2. The only incremental extension staff
required are one Assistant Director of Agriculture and 36 SMSs at district
level and 38 SMSs at revenue divisional level. Additional staff for the
monitoring and evaluation unit are also required. GOAP would ensure that
all the incremental staff positions are filled according to the schedule
in Annex 1, Tables 7 and 8.
2.14    Before negotiations, GOAP had issued a government order transfer-
ring 3,000 positions of VDOs from the Panchayati Raj Department to DOA
along with the budget and retaining them for extension work.
2.15    A total of 853 AOs are required for the project.  All of these
would be from existing posts that would be redeployed for extension work.
One Senior JDA post at the headquarters would be upgraded to Additional DA
(Extension).



-18-
2.16    Assurances were obtained that the VEO and AOs would be used
exclusively for agricultural extension and their emoluments and benefits
would not be adversely affected as a result of the reorganization.
2.17    Cashewnut Project Districts:  With GOAP adopting the 'T&V' exten-
sion system on a state-wide basis, all extension work would be transferred
from Cashew units to the extension services, whereas tasks beyond the
scope of extension (identification of project participants, selection of
suitable land, laying out orchards, assisting farmers with credit applica-
tion formalities, supervising and subsidy operations and providing cashew
nursery services) will continue to be performed by "cashew units"' (SAR,
Cashewnut Project, 1980, paras. 5.08 and 5.09). Assurances to this effect
were obtained at the time of negotiations.
Housing
2.18    Under the reorganized extension service, extension workers would
be required to make regular and frequent visits to farmer groups. It
would therefore be desirable for them to live in or near their area of
work. Government, however, is unable to provide the resources for the
construction of housing on a large scale, so the project would provide
housing for only about 3% of VEOs, i.e. 195 houses. Details are given in
Annex 1, Table 3.
2.19    The houses would be constructed through the Public Works Depart-
ment using the standard design approved by the government for the par-
ticular category of staff and would be located in those areas in which
there is a shortage of housing for rental.
Transport
2.20            Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility
both to enable field level staff to meet farmers regularly and to enable
technical and supervisory staff to make frequent visits in order to
provide the direct guidance needed. The entire system depends on a high
level of personal contact between all levels of extension workers. To
facilitate this, the project would provide two 4-WD vehicles at each
division, one for ADA and one for a team of SMSs. At the district level,
one of the existing vehicles with DOA would be redeployed exclusively for
the officers in charge of extension and one more would be provided by the
project for the SMSs. At headquarters, where all vehicles are pooled,
sufficient vehicles already exist.
2.21    VEOs would be provided loans (6,776 in number) for the purchase of
bicycles, and similarly, loans (853 in number) would be provided to AOs
and SMSs for the purchase of motorcycles. GOAP would provide this
facility through existing arrangements, which are satisfactory. Further
details are at Annex 1, Table 4.



-19-
2.22    Assurances were obtained that travel allowances would be suffi-
cient to ensure the use of vehicles. Funds would be provided under the
project for the operation and maintenance of vehicles. Details are given
in Annex 1, Table 5.
Equipment
2.23    Funds for extension aids for the VEO and AO would be provided,
as well as audio-visual aids to each divisional office. Details are
included in Annex 1, Table 4. Audio-visual equipment is already provided
to district offices.
Operating Expenses
2.24    Incremental travel allowances and expenses for the extension staff
and operating costs for incremental vehicles are provided in the project.
Details are included in Annex 1, Table 5.
Training
2.25    The project would provide funds for pre-season training (3 days)
for VEOs, AOs and SMSs, special short courses for VEOs and SMSs, orienta-
tion courses for other staff, monthly district workshops with research
staff and some fellowships for B.Sc. and M. Sc. training. APAU would be
responsible for many of these courses (see Annex 1, Table 6), utilizing
existing facilities (Farmers' Training Centers, and Gram Sevak Training
Centers). Funds have also been included in the project for miscellaneous
extension materials (diaries, charts, instructional materials, samples of
small implements, seed and pesticides for farm trials).
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.26    The project would provide for the establishment and operation of a
monitoring and evaluation system specifically designed to provide project
management with current information on the effectiveness of the extension
system. The methodology used would be similar to that described in a
Manual of Instruction, "The tlonitoring and Evaluation of Training and
Visit Extension in India", issued by the World Bank in August 1981, and
this system would supplement direct personal supervision at each level of
project management. Assurances were obtained that GOAP would undertake
monitoring and evaluation in a form acceptable to IDA and that an annual
summary of results would be forwarded (through DOE) to the Association at
least once a year. For this purpose, the project would include additional
staff at headquarters (4 plus supporting staff), at district (20 Statisti-
cal Assistants and 44 Field Investigators), vehicles (1 4-WD, 23 motor-
cycles and 46 cycles) and miscellaneous operating costs. Details of cost
are given in Annex 1, Table 7.



-20-
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01    Detailed cost estimates, based on incremental costs for carrying
out the project over a five-year period, are given in Annex 1, Tables 1 to
7.  The following table summarizes the costs:
Rs. Million              US$ Million a/         % Foreign
Category           Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
Equipment &
Vehicles         12.6      5.8     18.4      1.6      0.7     2.3         26
Civil Works        10.0       -      10.0      1.2        -      1.2         -
Incremental
Operating
Costs             7.0      4.9     11.9      0.9      0.6     1.5         32
Incremental
Staff Costs      16.4      -       16.4      2.0        -     2.0          -
Training            4.7      0.8       5.5     0.6      0.1      0.7         12
Total Base         50.7    11.5      62.2      6.3      1.4      7.7        18
Cost
Contingencies
Physical          0.5       -       0.5      0.1       -      0.1
Price            13.1      2.5     15.6      1.6      0.3     1.9          -
TOTAL PROJECT
COST             64.3    14.0      78.3      8.0      1.7     9.7         15
a/  Converted at the rate of US$1.0 = Rs 8.0
These costs include about US$1.0 M in duties and taxes and an estimated
US$1.7 M in foreign costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied
to civil works. Price contingencies have been applied as follows: 1982 -
11%, 1983 - 8.5%, and - 1984-86 - 7.5% per annum, and compounded accord-
ingly.



-21-
B. Proposed Financing
3.02    Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 70.3 M (US$8.7 M)
including contingencies, but net of taxes and duties would be provided as
follows:
Amount
Source                US$ Million              Percentage
IDA                       6.0                      69
GOAP/GOI                  2.7                      31
TOTAL                     8.7                     100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and
conditions and would finance about 69% of project costs, net of taxes and
duties, but including estimated foreign exchange costs of US$1.4 M. IDA
funds would be channeled through GOI to GOAP in accordance with GOI stand-
ard arrangements for IDA-assisted state development projects. The balance
of project financing, beyond IDA financing, would come from state govern-
ment sources and GOI. GOAP has made adequate budgetary provision for the
operation of the first project year.
3.03    Since GOI/GOAP have already initiated action to deploy staff and
procure transport and equipment, provision has been made for financing
retroactively, up to US$ 200,000, of expenditure on these items incurred
after January 1, 1982.
Procurement
3.04    The main items to be financed are:  vehicles including bicycles
and motorcycles; equipment-; houses for VEOs; training; project monitoring
and evaluation; and incremental staff costs. Civil works contracts
(US$1.2 M) for 195 houses and 4 hostels, would be small and dispersed,
both geographically and over time; therefore, they would not be conducive
to international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding following local advertisement. There are
numerous qualified local contractors to carry out such work. Arrangements
for preparing tenders and overseeing construct:ion were discussed during
negotiations. All contracts for civil works, equipment and furniture
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be reviewed by IDA both before
bids are invited and contracts awarded.
3.05    About 81 motor vehicles (US$0.7 M) of various types would be
required under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities



-22-
over three years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As ade-
quate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount
importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of
types already used by government departments. Thus, procurement would be
according to existing government procedures, which are competitive and
satisfactory to IDA. This includes procurement under retroactive financ-
ing. Motorcycles (876) and bicycles (6,822) (US$1.4 M) would be purchased
by individual staff from loan funds provided by the state government.
3.06    Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.2M)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established
local bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 when
they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels.
Assurances on procurement procedures mentioned in paras. 3.04-3.06 were
obtained during negotiations.
3.07    The balance of project costs (US$4.2M) would consist of training
and fellowships (US$0.7M), incremental salaries and allowances (US$2.OM),
and incremental operating expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$1.5M)
which would not involve procurement.l/ All of the above figures exclude
contingencies which amount to US$2.0M.
D. Disbursement and Audit
3.08    Disbursement under the credit would extend over five years and
would be made against:
a.  100% of all training costs;
b.  50% of the cost of civil works;
c.  80% of the cost of vehicles, equipment, furniture, and
materials and of amounts disbursed for motorcycle and bicycle
loans; and
d.  70% of incremental staff costs.  2/
I/ The cost of Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.8M) is included in dif-
ferent categories mentioned above.
2/ Incremental staff costs eligible for partial reimbursement would be
the following: 75 incremental Assistant Directors of Agriculture, i.e.
36 ADA (SMS) at district level, 38 ADA (SMS) in revenue divisions and
one ADA(s); the incremental cost of salary of Additional Director of
Agriculture; the cost of upgrading 1,000 VEO; and staff of monitoring
and evaluation unit.



-23-
3.09    Disbursements against expenditures for staff costs, training,
payments for locally procured vehicles and equipment of Rs. 150,000 or
less, payments under civil works contracts not exceeding Rs. 300,000 would
be against certified statements of expenditures, the documentation for
which would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by
GOAP and Department of Economic Afcairs (DEA). These documents would be
available for inspection by IDA during the course of project review mis-
sions. Disbursement against all other items would be fully documented.
Certificates of expenditures would be audited at least once every year and
a report submitted to IDA promptly thereafter. All disbursement applica-
tions would be forwarded and processed 1:hrough DEA. Schedules of
implementation and project disbursements are presented in Annex 3, Tables
1 and 2.
3.10    Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
expenditures made under the project. These would be audited annually for
each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consis-
tently applied and the audit reports submitted to IDA as soon as avail-
able. In addition, certified copies of project: accounts would be sub-*
mitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the fiscal year. Such
reports and audits would show, inter-alia, that: the funds withdrawn were
used for the purpose intended, that goods have been received or work
performed, and that payments have been made. All reports would be sub-
mitted by GOAP to the DEA (GOI) for onward transmission to IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Extension Service
4.01    The project would introduce fundamental improvements in the
organization and management of extension operations in Andhra Pradesh. By
establishing a single line of control from extension headquarters to VEO
(see organizational chart), field level staff becomes directly accountable
to their supervisors both technically and administratively. Each would
follow a fixed schedule of visits to specific groups of farmers. The
schedule would be known to farmers. Each AO would supervise about 8 VEOs,
spending at least four days a week in the field assisting and guiding
them. The ADA provided under the project would be responsible for ensur-
ing that AOs in his division work effectively. To do this, ADA would need
to spend about the same time in the field as the AO and he would also
attend fortnightly training sessions. SMS at the division level would
provide essential technical support as described in para. 2.06. ADA is
directly responsible to the District DDA or JDA.



-24-
4.02    The DOA headquarters organization would be streamlined to provide
effective management and technical support to the extension service as a
whole. While overall responsibility for general agricultural development
in the state rests with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Director of
Agriculture, the Add'l DA (Extension) would be responsible for the
day-to-day operations and management of the extension service both techni-
cally and administratively. Subject to the policy directions of the
Secretary and Director of Agriculture, the Add'l DA (Extension) would be
responsible for training and management of extension personnel. He would
visit the field frequently to check on the effectiveness of extension
operations. Add'l DA (Extension) would have a technical support staff of
three SMSs at the headquarters (one for extension, one for adaptive trials
and one for training) plus the support of three other JDAs at head-
quarters. Add'l. DA (Extension) would also be assisted by a small
administrative and accounting staff to help keep records of project expen-
ditures and prepare progress reports, etc.
State Level Coordination
4.03    Coordination at the state level between extension and allied
agencies would be ensured through establishment of a Project Coordination
Committee. The-Committee would be chaired by the Secretary for Agricul-
ture and would include the Vice Chancellor of APAU or his nominee, Direc-
tor of Agriculture, representatives of concerned government departments
and other agencies (Finance, Irrigation, Cooperative and input supplying
agencies). The Add'l DA (Extension) would act as Secretary to this Com-
mittee. The Committee would meet at least twice a year to revie-w progress
in project implementation and to resolve any problems that may arise. An
assurance was obtained that such a committee would be established and
start functioning before September 30, 1982.
Linkages Between Extension and Research
4.04    As-neither research nor extension can function without close
cooperation it would be necessary to formalize their responsibilities.
APAU is fully responsible for the development of suitable new technology
while the Department of Agriculture will assume responsibility for trans-
fer of technology to farmers, including widespread testing of research
recommendations on farmers' fields. The research programs of APAU and
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) would continue to identify
and select improved varieties of important crops, and also identify
economically appropriate practices directed to substantially increasing
crop production and, at the same time, lowering farmers' risk. Selected
varieties and production practices would then be tested at regional
research stations, seed farms, and on farmers' fields located in different
agro-climatic regions. Before Credit negotiations DOA and APAU concluded
a memorandum of understanding between them, setting out the terms of
APAU's support to extension.



-25-
4.05    The key link between the APAU and DOA would be the monthly dis-
trict workshops which would have three functions: (1) to train SMSs, (ii)
to review recommendations and on the basis of observations and experience,
to adapt them for transmittance to VEOs and AOs, and (iii) to suggest
modifications to the farm trial program for consideration by the
pre-season zonal workshop. The district DDA/JDA and the Extension
Agronomist at the RRS would jointly organize these sessions with the SMSs
at District and Division level. The Extension Agronomist will organize
participatian of the University research staff from the regional or
sub-station as may be appropriate. These workshops would be held in one
of the research stations or demonstration farms (16 locations have been
identified).
4.06    The pre-seasonal, zonal workshops currently held in the St-ate
would continue. The participants of the zonal workshop would be the
following:
(a) Scientists of the Regional Research and Crop Research
Stations
(b)  Scientists of the Project Development and Demonstration Farms
(c) Divisional ADAs
(d) Divisional SMSs
(e) District DDAs/JDAs/SMSs
(f)  2-3 scientists of the APAU to be nominated by the Director,
Research, APAU, including Extension Agronomists
(g) Headquarter SMSs
(h) Headquarters JDAs/DDAs to be nominated by DA/Add'l DA
The workshop would be held at the RRS of the zone and chaired by the
Associate Director. The objective of the workshop would be to:
(a) review and evaluate the farm trials and formulate the program
for next season.
(b)  discuss the program for applied research and the location of
trials. RRS, Crop Research Stations as well as Directorate's
Farms should be used for this purpose according to their
suitability.



-26-
(c) screen the research and farm trial results for adjustment of
the extension recommendations of farm practices for the zone.
It is essential that the previous season's data of both applied research
and field trials should be fully analyzed by the RRS well before the
seasonal workshop.
4.07    Zonal recommendations will be considered at a State Level Workshop
to be held before each season - Kharif and Rabi. It would be presided
over by the Vice Chancellor, APAU and would be attended by:
(a) Director of Research, APAU
(b) Director of Extension, APAU
(c) Heads of all disciplines of APAU
(d) All Associate Directors of RRSs
(e) Director of Agriculture
(f) Additional Director of Agriculture
(g) Zonal Joint Directors of Agriculture
(h)  Such other officers of the Department of Agriculture as may
be designated by the Director of Agriculture
The objective would be to:
(a) review the program of research and extension cooperation and
coordination;
(b) determine the research priorities and finalize the applied
and adaptive research programs on the basis of the recommen-
dations of the zonal workshops; and
(c) screen the zonal extension recommendations for farm prac-
tices, and finalize them for the season.
For graphic presentation of working relationship between extension and
research, see Chart No. 23340.
Farm Trials
4.08    Although APAU is responsible for all basic and applied research
and the DOA for extension and adaptive research, there is some amount of
overlapping between the two. The technology developed by the University



-27-
requires testing in multi-locational trials under various agro-ecological
situations by replicated scientific experiments on Regional Research
Stations, Crop Research Stations, DOA farms and, if need be, on farmers'
fields. The APAU after conducting multi-locational trials, would suggest
topics with few treatments (confirmed in modification trials) to be tried
by the extension staff, to guide adjustment of general recommendations to
specific farmers' conditions. The T&V extension system does not envisage
any Government supported demonstrations in farmers' fields. The best
demonstration is one where the farmer successfully adopts a recommended
practice or set of practices. The extension worker would give full tech-
nical guidance to farmers in trying the recommendations. The objective of
adaptive research (farm trials) is to refine arLd adjust the applied
research results to particular situations to make them location and farmer
specific. They will need to be adjusted to:
(a) Different cropping patterns;
(b) Farmers' skill;
(c) Farmers' resource and risk situation; and
(d) Local agro-climatic variations.
The farm trial program would be initially planned in the district monthly
workshop on the basis of different farm situations in the district and
would be executed by the District and Divisional SMSs, AOs and a few
selected VEOs where possible. The Extension Agronomist at the research
station would assist the district and division SMSs to plan the number and
nature of such trials and their locations. Assignment of the trials to
the SMSs, AOs and selected VEOs would be the responsibility of the Dis-
trict DDA/JDA in consultation with the Divisional ADA. The trials would
ordinarily be single plot, unreplicated, with accurate observation and
minimum data keeping, for which the necessary data sheets should be
prepared by APAU. The data should be analyzed and discussed in zonal
workshops. The District DDA/JDA would be responsible for collection of
the data in time for analysis. A few of these trials may be taken up in
the DOA farms where available, provided fields typical of the locality
are available. Participant farmers (who often would be contact farmers)
would meet the cost of the trials.
Training
4.09    APAU and senior SMSs from DOA would assist in providing monthly
training of SMSs who are responsible for the fortnightly training of
VEOs/Aos in the districts. JDA/DDA and ADA also would participate. The
duration of training would be two days. The training would serve the
following objectives:



-28-
(a) To review field developments since previous training: (i)
how extension recommendations were used in VEO training; (ii)
problems in extending recommendations; and (iii) problems
posed by farmers in adopting them under normal and special
situations like drought, epidemic attack of pest/diseases and
flood;
(b) To identify clearly and provide training on the most impor-
tant recommendations that should be made during the next two
fortnights, keeping in mind, experience and field conditions;
and
(c) Review the current farm trials program, and plan future
program.
For a full review of training, see Annex 2.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10    A Joint Director of Agriculture at headquarters would have respon-
sibility to the Director of Agriculture for monitoring and evaluation
(M&E). He would be assisted by a statistician, an economist and other
staff. The M&E methodology would conform to the 'Manual of Instructions'
designed for T&V extension system in India. Results of the monitoring and
evaluation unit would be reviewed each season by a committee comprising
the Secretary of Agriculture (Chairman), the Director of Agriculture and
Add'l. DA (Extension).
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01    Total project costs over the five year development period, exclud-
ing price contingencies, amount to US$7.7 M, which is US$0.68 per hectare
of cropped land or US$1.40 per farm family, assuming 5.50 M farm families.
Incremental costs after the project development period to be met from
state budget sources, would be about US$1.5 M annually or US$0.30 per farm
family. Incremental costs would be partly recovered through market levies
on agricultural produce entering commercial markets.
5.02    Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to
this type of project is difficult since it is not possible to determine
what proportion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to
additional purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the
combination of a number of factors, with extension playing the role of a
catalyst, that brings the desired benefits. It is also difficult to
estimate acceptance rates of recommended practices. However, since the
project relies primarily on reorganization and strengthening of an exist-
ing extension structure, the incremental cost is low per hectare and per



-29-
farm family. Hence, even very small and slow production increases in the
project areas would generate a high rate of return. This project would
be able to generate a 50% rate of return if, by 1989, yields of paddy (3.7
M ha) and sorghum (2.3 M ha) (which covers 62% of cropped land area)
increase by only 6 kg/ha and 2 kg/ha, respectively and which requires an
increase of under 1% over currenc yields of bot:h the crops. Details are
given in Annex 4, Table 1. Yield increases have far exceeded this level
where the extension system is operating effectLvely for a few years. One
significant feature of the system is that the practices initially stressed
by the extension service focus on improving cultural practices (timely
operations, good land preparation, proper seed rates, line sowing and
weeding) to maintain adequate and healthy planit populations over unit area
cultivated; as these operations usually involve more work and little cash
outlay, they are particularly well-suited to the needs of many small
farmers.
5.03    Project Risks.  The transfer of multi-purpose field workers and
establishment of a single, unified professional extension service marks a
major departure from past practice in India. The fact that such a reform
is underway in large parts of the country reflects a willingness to
develop an extension system capable of serving all farmers well. Neverthe-
less, it is difficult for governments to make and maintain such decisions.
The main risk, therefore, is that the state government would find it
difficult to maintain a single line of command from extension headquarters
to the VEOs who work exclusively on agriculture. In this project these
risks are relatively low because only a small proportion of field staff
are to be transferred from another department. To reduce these risks
further, efforts were made during project preparation and appraisal to
ensure full understanding of the importance of this by the Andhra Pradesh
State Government. In addition, an assurance would be obtained during
negotiations that the VEOs would remain as fulltime agricultural extension
workers throughout the project period, and that their seniority, emolu-
ments and other benefits would be protected. Staff changes in the upper
ranks of government are frequent and there is the additional risk of lack
of sustained, informed and motivated management. To avoid this, it will
be necessary for IDA to continue to supervise these projects closely and
frequently, and provide constant encouragement and assistance to state
government until the principles of the extension reform become fully
accepted and permanently institutionalized.
5.04    Experience has shown other risks to be minimal.  Farmers' respon-
siveness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever visits
are made systematically. In addition, VEOs have gained confidence in
their own professional ability to introduce innovations. The ability of
the service to develop and disseminate recommendations leading to yield
increases well above the level needed for a 50% return has been demon-
strated adequately. Initially, in most situations, availability of
suitable technology for different conditions has not been a constraint as



-30-
there is a backlog of research findings as yet not widely adopted. Major
yield increases are possible even in the process of bringing the produc-
tion level of average farmers to that of best farmers. To reduce the risk
of technological constraints lowering anticipated project benefitsl, the
project supports programs of field testing of research results and
development of good working relationships with the Andhra Pradesh Agricul-
tural University to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to
specific regional problems.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    At IDA's request GOAP had taken the following actions before
credit negotiations:
(a)  established the post of Add'l. DA (Extension), filled this
position with a suitably qualified officer, and assigned to
him full-time responsibility for implementation of the
project, i.e. he would have no duties other than day-to-day
management of the extension service (para. 2.11);
(b)  issued a government order transferring 3000 positions of VDOs
from the Panchayati Raj Department to DOA along with the
budget and retaining them for extension work (para. 2.14);
(c)  made adequate budgetary provision for the operation of the
first project year (para. 3.02); and
(d)  concluded a memorandum of understanding between GOAP and APAU
as to the role of APAU in project implementation (para.
4.04).
6.02    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government of
India and Government of Andhra Pradesh on the following matters: -
(a)  GOAP would fill incremental staff positions and deploy staff
according to or earlier than the schedules shown in Annex 1,
Tables 7 and 8 (para. 2.13);
(b)  GOAP would ensure that VEOs and AOs would be used exclusively
for agricultural extension work under the project, and that
they would not be adversely affected in respect of their
entitlement to emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects
by reason of the assignment (para. 2.16);



-31-
(c)  GOAP would ensure that cashewnut farmers will receive exten-
sion coverage under the new T & V extension system and all
other services would continue to be provided under the
Cashewnut Project (Credit 1012-IN) (para. 2.17);
(d)  GOAP would ensure that credit and travel allowances would be
made available to staff on such terms and conditions as to
create incentives for the purchase and use of motorcycles and
cycles (paras. 2.21 and 2.22);
(e)  GOAP would undertake monitoring and evaluation of the
projects in the form already agreed with the GOI. Further,
GOAP would forward to IDA (through DOA), a yearly summary of
results in a form acceptable to IDA (para. 2.26);
(f)  GOAP would implement procurement procedures outlined in
paras. 3.04 - 3.06;
(g)  GOAP would prepare and present to DOE for transmission to
IDA, administrative and financial data regarding progress of
project, including procurement of goods and services, civil
works, expenditures, audit and requests for disbursements in
accordance with the time schedules agreed (para. 3.10);
(h)  GOAP would establish a Project Coordination Committee to meet
before September 30, 1982 and twice a year thereafter (para.
4.03); and
6.03    With these conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a credit of US$6.0 M to GOI on standard IDA terms.



Annex 1
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
(Rs. '000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Total      2           Cost
Incremental Staff Costs
Base Cost                     3,282.0      3,282.0       3,282.0      3,282.0      3,282.0    16,410.0
Physical Contingency             -            -             -            -            -            -
Price Contingency a/            361.0        525.0         820.5      1,116.0      1,444.0      4,266.5
Total                      3,643.0      3,807.0      4,102.5       4,398.0      4,726.0    20,676.5       -
Civil Works
Base Cost                     1,755.0      2,655.0       2,080.0      1,755.0      1,755.0    10,000.0
Physical Contingency b/          88.0         132.5        104.0         88.0         87.5         500.0
Price Contingency aT            193.0         425.0        520.0        596.5        772.0      2,506.5
Total                      2,036.0      3,212.5      2,704.0       2,439.5      2,614.5    13.006.5       -             -
Equipment and Vehicles
Base Cost                     5,672.0      5,222.5       3,030.5      2,207.5      2,235.0    18,367.5
Physical Contingency             -             -            -            -            -             -
Price Contingency a/            624.0        836.0         757.5        750.5        975.5      3,943.5
Total                      6,296.0      6,058.5      3,788.0       2,958.0      3,210.5    22,311.0    26% c/   5,694.0
Incremental Operating Cost
Base Cost                     1,551.0      2,143.5       2,478.5      2,733.5      2,990.5    11,897.0
Physical Contingency             -             -            -            -            -             -
Price Contingency a/            170.5         343.0        619.5        929.5      1,316.0      3,378.5
Total                      1,721.5      2,486.5      3,098.0       3,663.0      4,306.5    15,275.5    32%         4,878.0
Training
Base Cost                       640.0      1,039.0       1,174.0      1,309.0      1,309.0      5,471.0
Physical Contingency              -           -              -           -            -             -
Price Contingency a/             70.5         166.0        293.5        445.0        576.0      1,551.0
Total                        710.5      1,205.0      1,467.5       1,754.0      1,885.0      7,022.0      12%         820.5
TOTAL
Base Cost                    12,900.0    14,342.0    12,045.0    11,287.0    11,553.5    62,145.5
Physical Contingency             88.0         132.5        104.0         88.0         87.5         500.0
Price Contingency             1.419.0      2,294.5       3,011.0      3,837.5      5,083.5    15,645.5
GRAND TOTAL               14,407.0    16,769.0    15,160.0    15,212.5    16,742.5'    78,291.0    15%             11,392.5
a/  Inflation rate applied cummulatively at 11%, 16%, 25%, 34% and 44%
respectively for project years 1 through 5.
b/  Physical contingenctes calculated at 5%.
c/  Weighted average of vehicles (2'%) and A.V. equipment (40%).



Annex 1
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES AND INCENTIVES
(Rs. '000)
Annual           Year 1              Year 2              Year 3                 Year 4               Year 5
Unit Cost       No.   Cost         No.   Cost           No.   Cost             No.   Cost           No.   Cost       Total Cost
Headquarters
Additional D.A. (Ext.) a/   3.0             1       3.0         1      3.0           1      3.0             1      3.0           1       3.0          15.0
District
Assistant Director of
Agriculture (SMS) b/    20.0            36    720.0         36    720.0         36    720.0            36    720.0          36      720.0      3,600.0
Revenue Divisions
Assistant Director of        20.0           1      20.0         1     20.0           1     20.0             1     20.0            1     20.0         100.0
Agriculture (Regular)
Assistant Director of
Agriculture (SMS)         20.0          38    760.0         38    760.0         38    760.0             38    760.0           38    760.0      3,800.0
Field Level
Upgrading Village
Extension Officers         0.99      1,000    990.0    1,000    990.0        1,000    990.0         1,000    990.0        1,000    990.0       4,950.0
Monitoring and Evaluation
Cell c/                                       789.0               789.0                789.0                  789.0                 789.0      3,945.0
TOTAL                            3,282.0             3,282.0              3,282.0                3,282.0               3,282.0    16,410.0
a/  Upgraded from the existing Senior JDA post, the incremental cost is the
difference in salary of Add'l DA and Senior JDA, i.e., Rs. 250/-per month.
b/  For the 13 districts which are being headed by DDA.  The other 10 districts headed by Joint
Director of Agriculture already have SMSs of DDA level; (3 ADAs (SMS) Hyderabad Urban District deleted).
c/ Includes headquarter and district staff. See Table 7.



Annex 1
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS
(Rs. '000)
Unit         Year 1             Year 2            Year 3              Year 4              Year 5          Total
Qty.     Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost         No.    Cost         Cost
VEO Quarters              195      45.0        39   1,755.0      39   1,755.0       39   1,755.0       39   1,755.0        39   1,755.0    8,775.0
Training Inst. a/           4     300.0         -       -         3      900.0       1     325.0            -         -       -    -         1,225.0
1,755.0           2,655.0           2,080.0             1,755.0             1,755.0   10,000.0
TOTAL
a/ Additional nostel accomodation at 4 GSTCs.



Annex 1
Table4
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
(Rs. '000)
Unit         Year 1              Year 2               Year 3              Year 4               Year 5           Total
Type           Qty       Cost        No.    Cost         No.     Cost        No.     Cost         No.     Cost        No.     Cost         Cost
Vehicles a/
Zones              Car              6       80.0         2      160.0        2      160.0        2      160.0                  -                   -          480.0
Districts  b/    Car               10       80.0         3      240.0        3      240.0        4      320.0                 -          -         -          800.0
4-WD            12       71.0         6     426.0         6      426.0       -        -           -        -          -         -          852.0
Divisions          4-WD            52       71.0        26   1,846.0        26   1,896.0                                                           -        3,692.0
AOs           Motorcycles         853        9.0       170   1,530.0       170   1,530.0       170   1,530.0        170   1,530.0       173   1,557.0    7,677.0
VEOs               Cycles       6,776        0.5   1,355       677.5   1,355        677.5   1,355       677.5    1,355       677.5   1,356       678.0    3,388.0
M&E Unit  c/       4-WD              1      71.0         1       71.0       -         -         -        -           -        -          -          -          71.0
Motorcycles          23        9.0       23      207.0       -               -        -          -             -           -         -         207.0
Cycles          46        0.5        46       23.0       -         -         -        -           -        -          -         -           23.0
Sub-total -                                               5,180.5             4,879.5             2,687.5              2,207.5              2,235.0    17,190.0
Office Equipment                                                                                                                                                                  ,
and Furniture
M&E Unit  c/          -           -           -         -        91.5                                                                                          91.5
Sub-total -                                                 91.5                                                                                          91.5
Audio-visual
Equipment
Division (SMS)      Set  d/        67       13.3        25      332.5       21      279.5       21      279.5        -        -          _         _          891.5
Misc. e/       67        1.0        25       25.0       21       21.0       21       21.0        -        -          -         -           67.0
AO                  Misc. f/      851        0.15    284         42.5      284       42.5      283       42.5        -        -          -         -          127.5
Sub-total                                                  400.0               343.0                343.0                                              1,086.p3
TOTAL                                                    5,672.0             5,222.5             3,030.5              2,207.5              2,235.0   18,367.5
a!  DOA has a pooling system at headquarters where it has 18 vehicles.  Total vehicles available with the
the Department are 263.
b/  The existing jeep with JDA at the district level will go to SMS.
c/  Includes headquarters and district equipment.   See Table 7.
d/  Equipment set for Division:  Slide Projector at Rs. 1,300; Overhead Project at Rs. 5,000; Public Address System at Rs. 6,000;
Slide Sets at Rs. 1,000.
e/  Slide Viewer, Folding Easel, Rolling Blackboard, Specimen Box, etc.
f/  Magnifying Glass, Rolling Blackboard, Flannel Board, Measuring Tape, etc.



Annex I
Table 5
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
(Rs. '000)
Annual          Year I          Year 2          Year 3            Year 4          Year 5           Total
Unit Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost        Cost
Incremental Traveling
Allowances & Expenses
ADAs/ADA (SMS)  a/          2.88         75      216.0    75    216.0    75    216.0         75      216,0    75      216.0    1,080.0
AO  b/                      1.50        170      216.0   340    510.0   510    765.0    680   1,020.0   853   1,276.5    3,826.5
M&E Unit  f/                 -            1       185.5      1    185.5      1    185.5       1      185.5      1     186.0       928.0
Sub-to tal-                                   656.5           911.5         1,166.5            1,421.5           1,678.5    5,834.5
Vehicle Operating Cost
Zones - cars       c/      15.0           2       30.0      4      60.0      6     90.0       6       90.0      6      90.0       360.0
Districts - cars  dI       12.5           3       37.5      6      75.0    10    125.0       10      125.0    10      125.0       487.5
4-WD  d/      12.5           6       75.0    12    150.0    12    150.0         12      150.0    12      150.0       675.0
Division  - 4-WD  e/        7.5          26       195.0    52    390.0    52    390.0        52      390.0    52      390.0    1,755.0
M&& Unit  - 4-WD  f/         -            1      125.0      1    125.0       1    125.0       1      125.0      1     125.0       625.0
Sub-total -                                   462.5           800.0            880.0             880.0             880.0    3,902.5
Office Operating Expenses
M&E Unit  f/               30.0           1       30.0      1      30.0      1     30.0       1      30.0       1     30.0         150.0
Division  g/                6.0          67      402.0    67    402.0    67    402.0         67    402.0       67    402.0      2,010.0
Sub-total -      -                            432.0           432.0            432.0            432.0             432.0      2,160.0
TOTAL                                 1,551.0         2,143.5         2,478.5           2,733.5          2,990.5    11,897.0
a/  Traveling Allowances at Rs. 240/- per month.
b/  Motorcycle conveyance allowance at Rs. 125 p.m. per head; and existing FTA of Rs. 150 p.w. is paid.
c/  30,000 km. per year at Rs. 0.50/km.
d/ 25,000 km. per year at Rs. 0.50/km.
e/ 15,000 km. per year at Rs. 0.50/km.
f/  See Table 7.
g/  Includes rent for office building at Rs. 500 p.m. for each division.



Annex I
Table 6
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TRAINING COST
(Rs. '000)
Unit                    Year I             Year 2              Year 3               Year 4              Year 5            Total
Type of Training                   Cost       Number    No.    Cost         No.      Cost        No.     Cost        No.      Cost       No.      Cost         Cost
Pre-seasonal Trg. VEO/AO  a/    0.05           680      136       7.0        136       7.0       136       7.0       136       7.0        136       7.0        35.0
Pre-seasonal Trg. ADA/SMS b/    0.5             60        12      6.0         12       6.0        12       6.0        12       6.0         12       6.0        30.0
Short Courses VEO           c/    0.1          240       48       5.0        48        5.0        48       5.0        48       5.0        48        5.0        25.0
Short Courses AO/SMS        d/    1.0           30         6      6.0          6       6.0         6       6.0         6       6.0          6       6.0        30.0
Refresher Courses, VEO    e/    0.125   11,250   2,250    281.25   2,250    281.25   2,250    281.25   2,250    281.25   2,250    281.25    1,406.25
Refresher Courses, AO       f/    0.125        850      170      21.25       170     21.25       170      21.25      170      21.25       170      21.25      106.25
Fortnightly Training               0.05      8,710   1,742       87.0    1,742       87.0    1,742        87.0     1,742      87.0     1,742      87.0        435.0
Monthly Workshop            h/    0.1        1,380      276      27.5        276      27.5       276      27.5       276      27.5        276      27.5       137.5
Overseas Training SMS             40.0           20      -        -            5    200.0          5    200.0          5    200.0           5    200.0        800.0
Promotional Trg.
B.Sc, (Ag.) VEO          i/    2.7          250       50    135.0        100    270.0         150    405.0        200    540.0        200    540.0       1,890.0
Promotional Trg. AO (SMS) j/    3.2             100       20     64.0         40    128.0         40    128.0         40    128.0          40    128.0        576.0
TOTAL                                            640.0             1,039.0             1;174.0              1,309.0             T.309.0     5.471.0
a/  Rs. 50 per course,  twice a year in each division, 2-3 days.
b/  Rs. 500 per course,  twice a year in each zone, 2-3 days.
c/  Rs. 100 per course, six courses a year in each of 4 GSTC and 3 FTC, one week.
d/ Rs. 1,000 per course, six courses a year at APAU, one week.
e/  Rs. 125 per VEO stipend for six weeks one course per VEO every three years.  8 centers x 6 courses a year x 50 participants
f/ Rs. 125 per AO stipend for six weeks one course per AO every 5 years at APAU.
g/  Rs. 50 per session to meet cost of training materials.  67 divisions x 26 fortnights.
h/  Rs. 100 per workshop for training materials.  One workshop per district per month.
Ti/ Rs. 225 per month stipend for 4 years, as per G.O.I. Lr. No. 2-2/81-PT dt. 12.5.81, 50 VEOs per year.
/  Rs. 225/- per month stipend for 2 years, plus Rs. 500 for fees, books, etc. per year; 20 AO/SMS per year.



Annex 1
- 38 -                                             Table 7
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION CELL
(Rs. '000)
Unit                                                                     To tal
No.   Cost      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5         Cost
STAFF
Hea dquar ter s
Joint Director of Agric.
(Statistics)   a/               1    26.5         26.5        26.5        26.5        26.5        26.5         132.5
Assistant Statistician             1    18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0          90.0
Statistical Assistants            2    12.0         24.0        24.0        24.0        24.0        24.0         120.0
Computers                         4      9.5        38.0        38.0        38.0        38.0        38.0         190.0
Stenographer                      1      9.5         9.5         9.5         9.5         9.5         9.5          47.5
Typist                             1     8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0         8.0          40.0
Driver                             1     7.0         7.0         7.0         7.0         7.0         7.0          35.0
District
Statistical Assistants  b/       20    12.0        240.0       240.0       240.0       240.0       240.0       1,200.0
Field Investigators  c/          44      9.5       418.0       418.0       418.0       418.0       418.0       2,090.0
Sub-total -                      789.0       789.0        789.0      789.0        789.0       3,945.0
EQUIPMENT
Headquar ters
4-WD                               1    71.0        71.0        -            -          -            -            71.0
Office equipment  d/               1    31.5        31.5        -            -          -            -            31.5
District
Motorcycles                       23     9.0       207.0        -            -          -            -            207.0
Office equipment  e/             23      2.6        60.0        -            -          -            -            60.0
Cycles                           46      0.5        23.0        -            -          -            -            23.0
Sub-total -                           392.5                                                         392.5
OPERATING COSTS
Office expenditure  f/             1    30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0         150.0
Incremental T.A.    g/             1   185.5       185.5       185.5       185.5       185.5       186.0         928.0
Vehicle operating costs  h/        1   125.0       125.0       125.0       125.0       125.0       125.0         625.0
Sub-total -                           340.5       340.5       340.5       340.5       340.5       1,703.0
TOTAL                               1,521.0    1,129.5    1,129.5    1,129.5    1,130.0           6,040.5
a/ 1 Statistician of the rank of DDA already exists.
b/ 3 Statistical Assistants already exist.
c/ Field Investigators in West Godvari District already exist.
d/ One Set = 2 typewriters, 4 calculators, 1 electric duplicator and office
furniture (10 tables, 10 chairs and 5 steel cupboards).
e/ One Set = 1 calculator and office furniture (1 table, 1 chair and 1 steel cupboard).
f/ At Rs. 7,000 per year at headquarters and at Rs. 1,000 per year at each district.
g/ Travel Allowance at Rs. 500 per month for JDA, Rs. 400 per month for Assistant
Statisticians, Rs. 300 per month for Statistical Assistants, and Rs. 200 per month
for Field Investogators.
h/  At Rs. 0.50 per kilometer for 4-WD for 20,000 kms per year and Rs. 0.50 per
kilometer for motorcycles for 10,000 per year.
Office equipment costs:
Typewriter           =  Rs. 3,500
Calculator           =  Rs. 1,000 (computers)
Calculator           =  Rs.   300 (others)
Duplicating Machine =  Rs. 5,000 (electric operated)
Duplicating Machine =  Rs. 1,000 (hand-operated)
Office Furniture    =  1 Table = Rs. 600
1 Chair = Rs. 200
1 Steel Cupboard = Rs. 1,500 (headquarters = 5, Zones = 4x6 = 24,
District 1 x 23 = 23).



Annex 1
_39-                                           Table 8
iNDiA
ANDNRA pRADESN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
RZQUIRENENT OF EXTENSION STAPP BY YEAR
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Field
V.E.O.                   Existing       Yearly         6,776           -           -           -           -
Cumulative    6,776        6,776       6,776       6,776       6,776
New            Yearly            -            -           -,
Cumulative        -
A.0.                     Existing       Yearly            853
Cumulative       853         853         853         853         853
New            Yearly            -           -            -.
Cumulative        -
Sub-Division
A.D.A. (R)               Existing       Yearly             66          -
Cumul tive        66          66          66          66          66
New            Yearly              I         -                        -           -
Cumulative         I           1            1           1           1
Special Grade A.O. a/  Existing         Yearly             22         -            -           -           -
Cumulative        22          22          22          22          22
New            Yearly             -           -
Cumulative        -
S.M.S. (A.D.A.s)         Existing       Yearly            163          -                       -           -
Cumulative       163         163         163         163         163
New            Yearly            38          -            -          -            -
Cunulative        38          38          38          38          38
District
Principal Agr.
Officer (J.D.A.)      Existing         Yearly             10         -            -           -           -
Cumulative        10          10          10          10           10
New             Yearly             -           -           -           -           -
Cumulative        -           -           -           -           -
D.D.A. (R)               Exi s ting      Yearly             23          -           -           -           -
Cumulative        23          23          23          23          23
New             Yearly             -
Cumulative        -
D.D.A. (SMS)             Extsting        Yearly            30
Cumulative       30          30          30          30          30
New             Yearly           -            -           -           -           -
Cumulaative      -           -           -
A.D.A. (R)               Existing        Yearly            13          -           -           -           -
Cumulative       13          13          13          13          13
New             Yearly            -           -           -           -           -
Cumulative       -           -           -
A.D.A. (SS)             Existing        Yearly            -           -           -           --          -
Cumulative       -           -           -
New             Yearly            36          -           -           -           -
Cumula tive      36          36          36          36          36
Zones
Sr. J.D.A.               Existing        Yearly             6          -           -           -           -
Cumulative        6           6           6           6           6
New             Yearly             -
Cumulative
Headquarters
Add'l D.A. (Extn.)       Existing        Yearly             I
Cumulative        1           1           1           1           1
New             Yearly
Cumula tive
J.D.A. (1R)              Existing        Yearly             3          -           -           -           -
Cumulative        3          3           3           3           3
New             Yearly             -          -           -           -           -
Cumulative        -
J.D.A. (SMS)             Existing        Yearly             3
Cumulative        3           3           3           3           3
New             Yearly
CUmU1ative
a!  Government orders have been issued to give selection grades to A.O.s as follows:
Normal grade:       750 - 1,050
10 years service: 800 - 1,100 (Special Grade)
15 years service: 1,050 - 1,600 (Senior Special Grade)
Senior Special Grade A.O.s with 15 years service get the same grade as A.D.A.s, i.e. Rs. 1,050 - 1,600.



Annex I
Table 9
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESII AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STATEMENT SHOWING THE VEOs REQUIRED FROM THE PANCHAYATI RAJ
DEPARTMENT AND OTHER STAFF REQUIRED, BY DISTRICTS
____________  VEOs                                                                      AOs                                            SMS
Actual        Net                              Net                      No. of         No. of
VEO                                           Require-    Add'l.                             Add'1.                    SMS re-         SMS
re-                                           ment of        Re-                   Actuial    Re-       No. of       quirement    required
No. of    Total  quired   lield        Sub-   Total   Total    one VEO    quirement   Exist-    Re-              ment        RevenoLe       at Sub-    at Dist.
Farm       VEOs  to be    Asst.       Asst.    Col      Ccl.      for 800         of         ing      quire-    of         Sub-divi-   divisional         level
Name of District           Holdings       a/   drafted   b/          b/    5 & 6   4 to 6   holdings          VEOs        AOs        ment      AOs       sions      level (ADAs)c/  (DDAs)
_  (1) __ _  ___ _ _ __(2)        (3)      (4)      (5)      (6)      (7)      (8)         (9)         (10)        (11)       (12)      (13)        (14)           (15)           (16)
Srikakulam      )          482,696      340      246       115      242      357      603        603           _           76         76         -           5              20             6
Vijayanagram  )
East Godavari              267,606       360      146      106       83      189      335         335          -           43         43         -           4              16             3
Krishna                    304,387      305       147       86      148      334      381        381           -           48         48         -           4              16             3
Kurnool                    254,654       300       -        72      295      367      318         318          -           40         40         -           3              12             3
Ananthapur                 265,379      230       168       53      110      163      331         331          -           42         42         -           3              12             3
Karimnagar                 332,508       275       16       26      374      400      416         416          -           52         52         -           3              12             3
Khammam_ 178,484                         150        9       38      176      214      223         223          -           28         28         -           3              12             3
Sub-total               2,085,714    1,960       683      496   1,428    1,924   2,607         2,607           -          329       329          -         25              100           24
Visakhapatnam              216,012      330        94      106       70      176      270         270          -           34        34          -           3              12             3
Guntur                     330,553      430       -         66      389      455      413        413           -           51         5t         -           3              12             3
Nellore                 . 220,051       340       163       60       52      112      275        275           -           35        35          -           3              12             3
Cuddapah                   195,326      180       108       44       92      136      244        244           -           31        31          -          3               12             3
Chittoor                   300,317      300      229        84       62      146      375        375           -           47        47          -          3               12             3
Nizamabad                  201,825       155       98       76       78      154      252        252           -           33        33          -          3               12             3
Nalgonda                   287,797      200        71       40      249      289      360        360           -           45        45          -           3              12             3
Sub-total                1,795,881   1,985       721      476       992   1,468   2,189        2,189           -          276       276 6-                 21              84            21
West Godavari              245,558       385      147       95       65      160      307         307          -           38        38          -           3              12             3
Prakasam                   263,795       66       88        71      171      242      330        330           -           41        41          -          3               12            3
Hyderabad     )            118,108      100       64        15       69       84      148        148           -           19        19          -          2               8             3
Rangareddy )
Mahbubnagar                253, 137     295       147       45      124      169      316        316           -           40        40          -          4               16             3
Medak                      241 ,524      160     215        33       54       87      302        302           -           38        38         -           3               12            3
Adilabad                   193,502      150       91        26      125      151      242        242           -           30        30         -           3              12             3
Warangal                   267,224      230       265       28       42       70      335        335           -           42        42          -          3               12             3
Sub-total               1,582,848   1,386   1,017         313      650      963   1,980        1,980           _         248        248         -          21              84            21
TOTAL                 5,464,443   5,281   2,421    1,285   3,070   4,355   6,776             6,776           -         853        853         -          67             268            66
a/  At present with the Panchayat Department
b/ Field Assistants and Sub-Assistants are with the Department of Agriculture.,
Field Assistants scale is 350-450.
c/ 3 SMSs of A.D.A. rank and I A.D.A. (R) for each subdivision.



-41-                           Annex 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training
1.      The Agriculture Extension Service has an important role in
increasing agricultural productivity and thus farmers' incomes. To do
this, farmers need knowledge and skills for efficient management of their
crops, livestock, physical resources, and farm business as a whole.
Essentials of success include incentives for production, evolving suitable
technoloy, and availability of credit, inputs, transportation, and
markets. The responsibility of the extension agents is to provide the
farmer with the knowledge to improve his income, and to verify new tech-
nology as it develops. A training program is thus essential for extension
workers (VEOs/AOs) since they must be able to demonstrate to farmers the
actual techniques of improved crop husbandry.
The New Program
2.      Training programs for extension workers and agricultural
administrators (ADA (div.)/DDA/JDA dist.) must be strengthened to provide
better dissemination of advice as a means of civercoming production con-
straints and assist farmers in the adoption of improved husbandry prac-
tices. The Training and Visit System is the basis for an improved exten-
sion service. This service depends on sustained and regular training of
extension workers and transfer of appropriate recommendations to farmers
through regular visits by the VEOs. The keynote is continuous practical
training of VEOs and AOs by SMSs who are conversant with the latest
research results, active in the identificatiorn of local problems, and
participate in local verification trials. Training in administration and
management is required for the higher level oi- staff.
Training Strategy
3.      Since the extension service is to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of research - extension - farmer teams must be such
that it imparts the specific information needed. There is little merit in
merely telling the farmer to do something. The farmer needs to know how
to carry out a task. It is best if the extension worker actually works
with the farmer in performing specific tasks. This implies that VEO
actually works with the farmer in performing specific tasks and, likewise,
AO and SMS who train VEOs must also be able to perform all tasks. Fur-
thermore, trainers of SMSs (usually research workers and senior staff)
need to be acquainted with farming operations and how they are best per-
formed. This requires a change in present training methods from a
reliance on lectures to "learning by doing".
4.      The first step in designing of appropriate training programs is an
identification of the skills and knowledge required by the farmer to
improve his production. The second step is to identify which of these



-42-
would be taught by VEO to the farmer. The order cE operation and their
seasonal priority is then determined so that VEO can get appropriate
training at the proper time. AO, as supervisor of VEO, would also need
training in what is to be passed on to the farmer. AO should also be able
to answer more advanced technical questions and to identify practical
problems. For subdivisional and district SMS, even greater depth of
knowledge is required so as to be able to instruct both VEOs and AOs.
5.      Research workers have to develop ability to identify factors
limiting farm production in the field and target research programs to the
practical resolution of these problems. This implies joint farm visits by
research and extension workers; cooperation in design, execution and
analysis of trials on farmers' fields; and continuous exchange of informa-
tion and ideas between research, extenson and farmers. Both this project
and the National Agricultural Research Project support these activities.
Tests and Demonstrations
6.      To provide a measure of the effectiveness of training programs and
permit tranees to assess progress, short tests of knowledge and demonstra-
tion of skills would be integrated into the training program. Precourse
testing would assist instructors in emphasizing those areas in which the
trainees need the most assistance and eliminate instruction in areas in
which they already possess adequate skill or knowledge. Precourse testing
helps the trainee identify areas in which he needs assistance and thus
provides some motivaton to learn. Testing may include identificaton of
limiting factors such as diseases, insects, nutritional deficiencies, or
demonstrations by the trainee of crop production techniques. Emphasis
should be placed on the practical, rather than extensive, testing of
written knowledge. Comparison of pre and post-course tests will permit
the trainee to identify what he has learned and the instructor to evaluate
the effectiveness and adequacy of his instruction.
Training for Extension Workers
7.      Fortnightly traning of VEOs and AOs by SMSs would be a major
feature of the project. Additional and more specialized training would be
provided for each category of extension worker. These are described as
follows:
Village Extension Officer (VEO)
8.      Orientation Training.  All VEOs would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T&V System.
9.      Fortnightly Training.  A major feature of the T & V System is
training of VEO once a fortnight. This training is carried out by SMS and
reviewed by AO and his VEO in the alternate week. For sessions given by



-43-
SMS, the basic training unit would be a group of 3D-40 VEOs and AOs. They
would meet on a regular day, once in two weeks, to receive training from
SMS and ADA of the subdivision, supported as necessary by district staff
and research workers. Most sessions would be held where there are means
for practical application of lessons taught, viz., a farmer's field, a
seed farm, an experimental station, or a training center. Training would
cover actual farm situations most likely to arise over the next two-week
period. Time would be allowed for VEO to carry out field operations and
practicals. During training, the VEO would have a chance to raise and
discuss problems encountered in the previous fortnight. Representatives
of cooperatives, banks, input agencies, agro-service units, and irrigation
would be invited to attend part of the sessions to ensure coordination of
related activities. On the intervening training day in each two-week
period VEOs would meet with their AOs to review current problems.
10.     Preseason Training.  Prior to each of the two main agricultural
seasons (kharif and rabi), VEOs would receive a 3 day training covering
the main seasonal crops and practices recommended for them. The training
would be held at subdivision level. The DDA, SMS and ADA (div.) would
organize and attend this session. This training would initiate the exten-
sion campaign for the coming season.
11.     Special Short Courses.  Some VEOs would be given traning in par-
ticular disciplines/crops which are of special imlportance to their areas.
1z.     Promotional Training.  Training grants would be available to
selected VEWs to enable them to obtain a degree and thus qualify for
promotion as AOs.
Agriculture Officers (AO)
13.     Preservice Training.  AOs would generally be university graduates.
A number of them would be experienced VEOs promoted as AOs.
14.     Orientation Training.  All AOs would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T & V extension system.
15.     Fortnightly Training.  AO would attend all training sessions of
VEOs. They are expected to assist SMS in fortnightly training . In
addition to visiting each VEO in the field, AO would conduct a review
training meeting for the VEOs each fortnight as necessary. AO would also
be given extra training by SMS to develop greater subject matter com-
petency.
16.     Preseason Training.  The AO would participate in the 2-3 day
preseason training prior to the main cropping seasons (kharif and rabi).
The training would be held at district level and the training group would
consist of university and state headquarters staf-f.



-44-
17.     Special Short Courses.  Selected AOs/SMSs would be given special-
ized training for a week in particular crops and disciplines which are
important to their area of operation.
18.     Promotional Training.  AOs/SMSs who show exceptional talent would
be provided opportunities for higher training: AOs will be deputed for
a two-year M.Sc. course at the four universities.
Subject Matter Specialist (SMS)
19.     SMSs play an important role in providing technical support and
training to VEOs and AOs. There would be SMSs with different levels of
training and competence at subdivisional, district and state levels.
Selection criteria of SMSs has been considered at national level and
following qualifications have been proposed for recruitment of fresh staff
for guidance of the state governments:
M.Sc. (Agri.) with specialization in agronomy or other dis-
ciplines, preferably with two years of field experience..
20.     Orientation.  Suitable instruction would be given in extension
methodology and the T& V extension system to all SMSs. Their specific
roles would be explained to them in detail.
21.     Inservice Training.  The SMSs would participate in the divisional
workshop, preseason training, specialized short courses and monthly
workshops.
(a) Zonal Workshop: To provide effective training to VEOs and
AOs once every two weeks, the SMSs would have to be
up-to-date in their areas of specialization and ensure that
training has a practical bias.
(b) Preseason Training. The SMSs would participate in the 3 day
preseason training prior to the main cropping seasons (kharif
and rabi). The training would be held at district level.
(c) Special Short Courses: In order to build up professional
competence of SMSs it is considered necessary to provide them
opportunities for higher training in agricultural univer-
sities, and research institutions of national importance.
SMSs with exceptional talent could be provided opportunities
for training in such international research instituitins as
IRRI (Philippines).



-45-
22.     Promotional Training.  Such of the SMSs who do not possess M.Sc.
degree would be provided opportunities for higher training (M.S.
Agri.) at one of the four universities.
Administrative Personnel
23.     In addition to subject matter training and training in extension
methodology, administration and management training would be available
to SMSs and other staff (ADA (div.), DDAs, Joint Directors and Sr. Jt.
Directors Agr.).
24.     Orientation.  All supervisory personnel would undergo training
in extension methodology and the T&V extension system. Their specific
roles would be explained in detail.
25.     In-service Training.  Special training programs would be organized
by the Director of Agriculture for staff at supervisory levels.
Responsibilities
26.     The Add'l DA (Extension), in consultation with APAU other
appropriate agencies, would be responsible for planning and organizing all
training programs.  He would be assisted by the SMS team at headquarters.
A summary of the perceived training activities is as under:



-46-
Type of
Training             Participants    Venue        Duration    Frequency          Trainers
1.  Pre-season       VEO/AO           Sub-div.    3 days       2x a year       SMS/ADA
*.  Pre-season       SMS/Sub-div./   Zone          3 days      2x a year      SMS (HQ)/JDA
district                                               (Regional)/Univ.
scientists
3.  Special          VEO              FTC/GSTC    7 days       6 courses       Institution
Short Courses                     SPPI                     per center    staff, SMS
per year       (distrist + HQ)
4.  Special          AO/SMS           University  7 days       6 courses       Research Insts.
Short Courses                                              per year       and University
(as needed)
5.  Short Courses   AO/SMS            As organized by Gov't of India          National/
as scheduled                                                              International
Research Insts.,
by Gov't.                                                                 ICAR
6.  Refresher        VEO              FTC/GSTC/   6 weeks    6 courses         Institution
Courses                           SSPI                     per year       staff and guest
per center    lecturers
7.  Refresher        AO               University  6 weeks    6 courses         Research
Courses                                                    per year       Scientists
HQ-SMS
8.  Fortnightly      VEO/AO            Sub-div.    I day       Fortnightly   SMS/ADA
Training
9.  Monthly          SMS/SDAOs        Res. stn.   2 days       Monthly         University
Workshops        sub-SDAO         or suit-                                 Scientists
able                                    SMS (Dist. + HQ)
location
10. Promotional      VEO              University  4 years    50 per year   Agric. College
Training or                                                               Staff
Scholarship
11. Promotional      AO/SMS           University  2 years    20 per year   Agric. College
Training                                                                  Staff
12. Zonal Workshop  SMS/ADA/          Agric.       2 days      2x a year      Research
DDA/JDA          Zone                                    Scientists
SMS HQ/GOI



.47.                             Annex 3
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTEN'SION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Pre-
Pre-Board    Effect_ve-                  Month after Effectiveness'
I tem            Presentation  ness         1 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 39 42 45 48 51        60
Civil Works
Site Selection
Prepare Tenders
Cons truc tion                                        195 VEO
4 hostels
Vehicles and
Equipment
Prepare Tenders
Purchase Vehicles                           38    37        6
Equipment                                        ____       =
Staff
Appoint ADA (SMS)                             38
Training
Orienta tion
All Other
Coordination
Commi ttees
Project
Monitoring
Select/Appoint
Staff
Data Collection
Base line
survey
evaluation



-48-
Annex 3
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(USs Million)
Disbursements                    Semester                     Cumulative
(IDA FY)
1982   a/
2nd                       0.2                             0.2
1983  1st                        0.4                            0.6
2nd                        0.4                            1.0
1984  1st                        0.5                             1.5
2nd                       0.6                             2.1
1985  1st                        0.7                             2.8
2nd                       0.8                             3.6
1986  1st                        0.8                             4.4
2nd                        0.7                            5.1
1987  1st                        0.6                            5.7
2nd                        0.3                            6.0
a/ Estimated effectiveness date May 15, 1982.



-49-
Annex 4
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Rs. '000)
Benefits
Incremental  Incremental   Total    Total Cost  Discount         %        Present Value
Year    Extension    Training       Costs    Discounted   Factor   Benefits            of
Costs       Costs                    at 50%                Achieved       Benefits
1       12,260          640       12,900        8,591       0.664        -             -
2       13,303        1,039       14,362        6,368       0.444       10          0.044
3       10,871        1,174       12,045        3,565       0.296       30          0.088
4        9,978        1,309       11,287        2,224       0.197       60          0.118
5       10,245        1,309       11,554        1,514       0.131       80          0.105
6       10,245        1,309       11,554        1,005       0.087       90          0.078
7-20     10,245        1,309       11,554        1,964       0.170      100          0.170
25,231                              0.603
The annual incremental value of crops (1980 prices) required from
year 7 onwards to achieve a 50% rate of return is
Rs 25,231
------  M or Rs 42 M.
0.603
Present yearly    Prices of    Present Yearly
Area      Present Yield         Production          Crops      Value of Crops
Crop             (1. ha)        (kg/ha)             (M tons)         Rs. ton           Rs. M
Paddy            3.687 a/        1,670 a/             6.16            2,006 b/        12,357
Jowar            2.338 a/          580 a/             1.36            1,045 c/         1,421
13,778
To obtain Rs. 42M the yields of paddy and jowar must increase by 0.30%.
The yield increase required would thus be:
Paddy   =   6 kg./ha.
Jowar   =   2 kg./ha.
a/ Average 1974-75 tp 1979-80.
b/ See Table 2.
c/ Farmgate price has been used as jowar is not traded.



-50-                          Annex 4
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Economic Price for Paddy
US$
1. Milled Rice - Bombay
Price milled rice 25-35% broken f.o.b. Bangkok           358  a/
Add c.i.f. to Vishakhapatnam and handling to
wholesale outlet                                          48
406 ton in
Vishakhapatnam
wholesale market
- Rs.3,248/ton b/
2. Cost of Milling and Handling rice from
Farngate to Wholesale Market                                 Rs./ton
Paddy - Farm to mill, transport,
in-store handling and storage charge
Transport                                        25  r/
Milling and handling                             40  d/
65   - Paddy
98.5 - Milled Rice
Milled Rice - Transport, storage and handling
to wholesale market
Transport, mill to railnead                      82.5  e/
dandling to wholesale market                     80.0  f/
162.5 - Milled Rice
Total -      261.0
Financial cost of Rs. 261/ton adjusted
by SCF = 0.8 to give economic cost of
Rs. 209/ton.
3. Economic Price of Paddy at Farmgate
Imported rice Vishakhapatnam wholesale market (Rs. 3,248/ton)
less milling and handling charges to Vishakhapatnam of Rs. 209/ton
and converted to paddy at 66% g/ = Rs. 2,006/ton paddy.
a/ World Bank Commodity Price Forecast, October 1979.
b/ At exchange rate of US$1.0 = Rs. 8.0.
c/ Transport from farm to railhead at Rs. 2.5/qtl.
d/  Milling cost at Rs. 30.0/ton + Rs. 10/ton commission and other charges for
66% outturn.
e/ Transport mill to Vishakhapatnam (say 150 km.) at Rs. 1.0 qtl./km for the
15 kms. and Rs. 0.5/qtl./km over.
f/ Handling charges and commission.
_/ Milling percentage.



-51-
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Director of
Agriculture
Additional Directo Joint Director         Joint Director           Joint Director
Additional Director  . _   of Agriculture           of Agriculture           of Agriculture
of Agriculture                 SMS                    SMS                      SMS
Senior Joint
DirectoAr of
Agriculture
Zone
Joint Directors                                                             puty      r     s Directors  A
Agriculture1/                                                              of Agriculture2/
or  Division al                                           r~~~~~~~~~Exenio
of Agriculturn oftthir A      rict                         ectors            of Agriculture             Agricuture         Assistant Directors
.(General Duties)             (SMS)                of Agriculture             (General Duties)              (SMS)              of Agriculture
Agr:Iclua             Assistant Directors                                      Agiutrl             |Assistant Directors|
I   Agricultural    of Agriculture                                         Agiutrl             |of Agriculture.|
i  Officers                 (M)Officers                                                           l       (S )        l
|  Village      iI                                                               Village      l
|  Extension    ll                                                              Extension     l
Officers        ll                                                              Officers     l
1/ One In each of the 10 larger Districts
21 One In each of the 13 smallI Districts                                                                                                WVortd B3ank - 23339



-52-
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Linkages Between Extension and Research
Departmpnt of           -  -             State Extension                        Agricultural University
Agriculture                             and Research                          Extension Agronomist
AEr c lture                    W~~~~Vorkshop 
Zonal Workshops   _        -     
(7 Zones)
District JDA/DDA                           Monthly District                         Regiorial Research
-              ~~~~~Station
and SMS              -          _        Workshop                             Extension Agronomist
Subdivision ADA
and SMS
World Bank - 23340



77          78           79'          a0'                                                    h4 2-H-at     5
4-          9                              ~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
A <2 t=\, ~ANDHRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION  PROJECT'a1-
g ~ ~~~~ D IK Lr A1                   -' ADAGRICULTU RAL RESEARCH FACIlITIES AND TRAINING CENTERS~
19-                 7 1  ;  f\           .......%./            SfX                                                            ,-
%  >  /' -2Df>=,~~~~ayoa,;Af\v9/<P-f                                                                            19,
t  rXNIZAMA8ADt  ~KARIMNAGAR                  PRDS                                     U LC  M   K K L X
'  X             Ya  -Sm~~~~N  lA souPe                    \  ,ooz i  \s                   ,
178   -  _   ,   '       X                     ;               SNIZAMARAD/                                                         |
%   r   l*,u   a   NAGAR  f  ..  n<j. 1(< .<5HNA S S S DevelopmentondDemonstrattonFR     I   K    A8
A@ t          >    4       @      < t tl            g                              riig lnet
X R < < , j g a C AX \\ O IMlchiiipotnom - Unl~~~~~~~~~v=1 Cmve
-16- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,g Tad g             ci                                   OOO                                  N  oolf      tSaerpti1
7~ ~ ~~~~~~e ANANHAPU                                                           _7-)NEL O     ,
HYDR A t<BAD            NALG0ONDA0                             O 60a oo1V R4 0I 8 0 
IOWO   d #bV v   k  -f  X ,>    FVb          v  20  40  6V 8WEST0   10   2   5                               17 'U
77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tj.m C8eOws8A    ]82



