Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25128
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39220; SCL-3922A; SCPM-3922S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$95 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR THE
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 3,2003
Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Leva
1.00 leva = US$ 0.49
US$ 1.00 = 2.05 Leva
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDZ    Bulgarian State Railway
EBRD European Bank for Reconstructiion and Development
EIB    European Investment Bank
EU     European Union
GRA    General Road Administration
MOTC Ministry of Transport and Communications
PKM Passenger-Kilometer
RAP    Restructuring Action Plan
TKM   Ton-Kilometer
UIC    International Railway Union
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, EVAVP
Country Director:  Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCU5
Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Transport Sector Manager:  Eva Molnar, ECSIE
Task Team Leader:   Jean-Charles Crochet, ECSIE



BULGARIA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
6. Sustainability                                                                 12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                15
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                        21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             32
Annex 8. Restructuring Action Plan                                                33
Annex 9. Supplemental Tables                                                      44






Project ID P008315                                       Project Name: RAILWAY REHABILITATION
PROJECT
Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet                        TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type. Core ICR                                       Report Date. March 3, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT                L/C/TFNNumber: CPL-39220;
SCL-3922A;
SCPM-3922S
Countrv/Department: BULGARIA                                            Region. Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Railways (100%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actutal
PCD:   05/21/1993                             Effective: 03/01/1996         03/01/1996
Appraisal:  06/24/1994                               MTR: 05/18/1998            05/18/1998
Approval:  07/06/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2002
Borrower/lnplementing Agency: BDZ/BULGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
Other Partners: EBRD, EU PHARE
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Country Manager      Andrew N. Vorkink                         Rachel Lomax
Sector Manager:      Hossein Razavi                            Ricardo Halpenn
Teanm Leader at ICR:  Jean-Charles Crochet                    Jacques Yenny
ICR Prinmarv Author  Luisa Velardi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainrability L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Petformanrce: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time. Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Railway Rehabilitation Project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),



was to support and deepen the restructuring process that the Bulgarian State Railway (BDZ) and the
Government had already initiated. The project supported a set of key policy measures embodied in (i) the
Railway Law (enacted in June 1995, at the project inception); (ii) the five-year Restructuring Action Plan
(RAP) that set reform goals, implementation actions, responsibilities, timing and operational and financial
targets for all aspects of BDZ's activity and organization; and (iii) a Contract Plan between BDZ and the
Government (signed in February 1996).
The project was fully consistent with the Bank 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that included as
its main goals macroeconomic stabilization, transformation of state enterprises, and modernization of
Bulgaria's physical infrastructure.
The project objectives were highly relevant for the country since it needed to reform the railway sector and
restructure BDZ. In fact, the economic recession that affected Bulgaria in the early post communist era
had a major impact on the transport sector and particularly on BDZ. At the time of project development,
rail freight traffic was 57% less than in 1989. Passenger traffic, which held up better, had still fallen by
36%. And BDZ was fully unprepared to function in a competitive environment and be responsive to the
needs of its customers. Meanwhile, investment in the sector had come to a virtual halt. In 1992, investments
for the entire transport sector totaled only US$24 million, against about US$450-500 million per year in
the previous decade, with dire effects on the quality of railway services. In addition, with 64,000
employees, BDZ was one of the more important employers of the country. Therefore, its restructuring was
a major issue not only for the future of transport services but also for the Bulgarian society as a whole.
The project objectives were realistic in terms of the Borrower's commitment. Bulgaria had already started
the process of sector reform and railway restructuring. The Government, subscribing to the general
principles of the EU Directive on Railways 91/440, had prepared a draft railway law, the approval of
which was one of the conditions for the effectiveness of the loan. In parallel to the reform process, the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) and BDZ had prepared the above mentioned RAP
with the assistance of foreign consultants as well as the Bank and EBRD. The RAP was meant to be the
main instrument for adjusting BDZ to its new economic environment and ensuring that rail transport's
efficiency increased in line with the requirement of the Bulgarian economy. There was strong support for
the RAP within BDZ's leadership at the time of project preparation. In addition, in line with an approach
that was quite common at the time for clariflying the relationships between the State and major State owned
enterprises, a Contract Plan was adopted between BDZ and the Government. This was another condition
for the effectiveness of the loan. The project was in line with the World Bank strategy for the tansport
sector, which was to promote efficiency in investments and operations, thus limiting the need for public
financing and setting the stage for future private sector participation. Therefore, the project objectives
reflected the strategies of both the country and the World Bank.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3 3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components to be financed by the Bank and six components to be financed by
EBRD and the European Union. The Bank financed components were as follows:
(a) TracEk Renewal and Maintenance (Total estimated cost of US$137.4 million, excluding
contingencies). At the time of project identification, speed restriction due to lack of investments affected
-2-



more than 1,000 km of the 4,300 km of railway network (of which 2,600 km were electrified and 900 km
with double track). Safety was then becoming a main concem, while operating and maintenance costs were
increasing. The project included renewal of over 400 km out of 1,880 km of priority railway lines,
replacement of track maintenance machines, improved sleepers, re-equipment of the rail welding shop, and
the introduction of wheel and flange lubricators. Priority sections for renewal were identified on the basis of
a thorough analysis of track conditions and importance of the traffic. The Bank was to finance the purchase
of all materials for track renewal and machines for track maintenance (i.e. the entire US$66.1 million
foreign exchange cost of this component), while the Govemment was to finance the installation works.
(b) Management Information System (US$16.0 million). The project included a major improvement of
BDZ's management information system through design and implementation of passenger information,
freight operation, and financial management systems in an integrated contemporary architecture consisting
of: (i) central and regional computers; (ii) a modest upgrade of BDZ's data network; (iii) user equipment,
mostly personal computers; (iv) systems, database, program development, and application software; (v)
expert support and training during the introductory stage; and (vi) spare parts and initial supplies. The
Bank was to finance the US$11 .50 million foreign exchange cost of this component.
(c) Training (US$1.0 million). This component was meant mainly to help BDZ management learn skills
needed in a modem railway company, particularly in the fields of marketing, finance, accounting, and
human resources.
The EBRD/EU project components were as follows: (a) Signalling and telecommunications (US$26.0
million); (b) Track maintenance machines and spare partscoach rehabilitation (US$29.1 million); (c)
Traction and rolling stock maintenance including spare parts (US$17.9 million); (d) Rehabilitation of
passenger coaches (US$18.1 million); (e) Locomotive driver training simulator (US$ 1.6 million); and (f)
Technical assistance (US$1.6 million). These components, like the Bank financed ones, were related to
specific parts of the RAP. They complemented the components financed by the World Bank. Together, they
made a comprehensive set of priority investments.
The estimated total cost of the project was about US$296 million equivalent. The project foreign costs were
to be financed by the World Bank (US$95 million), EBRD (US$45 million), ECLAT (export credit
arranged by EBRD) (US$12 million), and the PHARE program of the EU (US$18 million). US$126
million in local costs were to be financed by the Government and BDZ.
3.4 Revised Components.
Project components were not revised, but the project financing plan was. Indeed, in the course of project
implementation, the Bulgarian Government applied for, and obtained, an additional EU-PHARE Grant for
an amount of EUR 20 million to finance installation works for the project track renewal component. Such
works were originally supposed to be financed entirely by the Govemment, but, as explained below, drastic
fiscal constraints prevented the Government to supply sufficient funds from its own resources. It was
therefore fortunate that the EU-PHARE program was able and willing to supply funds to partly substitute
Government financing.
3.5 Quality at Entrn:
The project was approved before the formal quality at entry review process by the QAG was instituted in
the Bank. However, there are good reasons to rate the project quality at entry as satisfactory. As explained
in paragraph 3.1 above, project objectives were clearly stated and realistic in terms of the Borrower's
capabilities and ownership at the time of project preparation and appraisal. They were also very much in
- 3-



line with the Bank 1993 CAS as well as the Bank general objectives and priorities in the transport sector at
the time. The project components were carefully selected and included BDZ top investment priorities. The
risks were appropriately assessed and addressed. The economical analysis for the physical components was
done competently. There was also a sound financial analysis of BDZ, with a forecast for 5 years. The
economic and socio-political environment was extremely uncertain in Bulgaria in the early to mid 1990s
and it would not have made sense to seek more radical reforms of the railway sector with significant
introduction of private operators. The project design, which included key investments with a strong, yet
achievable, reform program reflected the Bank experience with reform of State owned enterprises in many
countries.
The project objective should have been stated more specifically, and the RAP could have been more
focused in the description of actions to be taken and precise in the timing for completion of these actions.
There could also have been a more direct link between the project components and the project objective,
although it is certainly implicit in general and explicit in the detailed formulation of the RAP that the
project components are necessary for implementation of the RAP. However, all these are relatively minor
shortcomings in an overall sound project design.
4. Achievement of Objective and (Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective:
Although not stated explicitly, the expected outcome of the project was clearly a restructured railway
sector, adjusted to the completely changed economic environment in Bulgaria. The implementation of a
new railway sector legal framework, the restructuring of BDZ through the RAP, and the establishment of a
contract plan system were both the instruments and the indicators of success in the achievement of the
expected outcome. It is therefore necessary to review these three aspects for assessing how well the
expected outcome was achieved.
Railway Sector Legal Framework
A new Railway Law was approved in June1995. This law clarified the role of BDZ and its relationships
with MOTC. It also paved the way for BDZ reorganization. As a result, BDZ regional organization was
terninated, business centers for freight and passengers were established, and separate financial accounts
were introduced for infrastructure. These changes brought the production managers closer to the customers.
They also opened the path toward the separation of infrastructure from operations. The Law was thus
applied and reached its goal as regard to the restructuring of the Company. On the other hand, the
commercial independence of BDZ was not well established. In particular, MOTC remained in control of
decisions with a social impact, such as the closure of uneconomic rail lines and increases in passengers
fares.
The Govemment and BDZ rightly did not stop with the 1995 law. With increasing contacts with European
institutions, help from the project consultants and the project training component, and support from the
Bank and EBRD, a second Railway law was put on the drawing board and painstakingly prepared. It was
eventually approved in November 2000. This Law, which follows EU Railway Directives, is more radical.
It established two separate enterprises for infrastructure and transport operations, created a railway
regulatory body, the Railway Administration Executive Agency, which is a semi-autonomous unit under
MOTC, and set up an open market for the provision of railway transport services in Bulgaria.
Accordingly, as of January 1, 2002, BDZ was split into two companies, one of them in charge of
infrastructure (National Company Railway Infrastructure - NC RI), the other in charge of railway
-4 -



operations (BDZ EAD). NC RI is to remain state-owned, while BDZ EAD could be partly or wholly
privatized.
With this second Railway Law, which the Bank did not request nor even anticipate at the time of project
appraisal, the goal of creating a sound framework within which the railway could operate on a commercial
basis, was fully accomplished. In addition, the law, and all the regulatory documents necessary for its
implementation (which in general are sound and complete), made possible the participation of the private
sector in railway operations and thus competition. In the rest of this ICR, the term "BDZ" designates either
the unitary company BDZ prior to January 1, 2002, or jointly NC RI and BDZ EAD thereafter.
Restructuring Action Plan (RAP)
The RAP was a complex and somewhat heterogeneous document listing required measures for all aspects
of BDZ activities. How well the RAP's goals were achieved is discussed in Annex 8. A summary is
presented below.
(i) Regarding institutional aspects, the main objective was the creation of an institutional framework within
which BDZ could pursue its commercial objective alongside its responsibilities under public service
obligations. This overlapped partly with the establishment of a sound legal framework, and, as explained
above, was fully achieved in this regard. However, as far as the financial regime under which BDZ
operates is concerned, although the principles of BDZ autonomy and financial sustainability, and,
therefore, of explicit State remuneration of social activities under public service obligation (PSO)
contracts, are well recognized, these principles have not yet been implemented satisfactorily.
(ii) Regarding organization and management aspects, the main objective was the creation and operation of
a business oriented structure, with effective relationships with Govemment and customers and a
management style encouraging responsibility, initiative and decisions at the lowest effective levels and
producing business and related investment plans giving satisfactory financial results. This part of the RAP,
which included some major changes, resulted in some great achievements, but also substantial failures.
With the support of training programs and technical assistance, a new market-oriented organization was
implemented in BDZ and the Intemational Accounting System was adopted. Another major success was
the separation and privatization (or termination) of all ancillary and support activities, sixteen in total, a
result that goes much beyond what was expected in the RAP. However, there were also two major
disappointments. First, implementation of a radically improved management information system failed as is
discussed later in this report. In addition, the closure of railway lines, which was included in this part of
the RAP but not well explained nor made fully specific, was limited to 833 Km of redundant tracks and did
not include any significant length of uneconomic branch lines. This was due mainly to the visibility and
political sensitivity of line closure, and also to the fact that, after reducing considerably the cost of
operating branch lines and eliminating any capital renewal on their assets, BDZ felt that these lines were
not a major financial drain. Much more success was achieved with the closure of stations and halts, the
total number of which was reduced from 802 to 564.
(iii) Regarding operational and marketing aspects, the main objectives were (a) to identify those markets in
which the railways had a comparative advantage, select and develop specific freight and passenger traffic
flows to maximize BDZ's market advantage in terms of volume, net revenue and important customers, and
devise and operate railway services to meet these requirements with efficiency, economy and safety; and (b)
to identify the opportunities open to BDZ and achieve full market shares in line with its competitive
advantage. These objectives were substantially achieved. Freight and passenger operations departments
were established and their staff trained through the project training component. With the help of their
- 5 -



marketing units, these departments have gained a much better knowledge of their markets and the
requirements for adequately serving these markets. The freight department in particular has been able to
position its services on the basis of BDZ competitive advantages and to identify and focus on customers
that generate profits. The passenger department has been less successful in developing a knowledge of its
clientele and its competitive advantages, and has not helped the State identify those social services that
warrant continued State support under PSO contracts.  In general, timetables have been adjusted
continuously. The number of train-Km has been reduced although not to the extent that would have been
justified given the reduction in demand. New tariff schedules have been put in place. Efforts have been
made to assess cost although the introduction of the simplified computerised OSCAR cost model did not
prove sustainable. Finally, combined transport and unit trains were much developed.
(iv) Regarding infrastructure and traction and rolling stock, the main objectives were (a) to maintain and
develop track structure, signaling and electric traction systems and maintenance facilities to meet capacity,
quality and reliability standards; and (b) to provide, maintain and develop or scrap locomotives, wagons,
coaches, multiple units and maintenance facilities needed to meet capacity, quality and reliability
requirements. These objectives were substantially achieved, thanks to a great extent to the project. The
quality of the track and related infrastructure, and the capability of BDZ to carry out track and
infrastructure maintenance have increased substantially. Large numbers of locomotives and wagons have
been taken out of operation, scrapped, or sold off. Numerous wagons have in particular been sold to
enterprises that may now become competitors to BDZ. Measures for distributing major repairs amongst the
locomotive depots of specific types of locomotives were implemented in order to improve the quality of
repairs and lower the costs of stocks. Improvements in the quality of repair have increased the time of
equipment spent in operations and decreased the cost of maintenance. Programs for heavy repairs of wagon
and coaches were prepared and are now under implementation. Despite the implementation of these
actions, the operational condition of the locomotives fleet remains the same, but this would not have been
the case without the material inputs provided by the project. Carriage condition, thanks also to the
project's re-furbishment program, is steady.
(v) Regarding human resources, the main objective was to provide and maintain a cadre of highly
motivated and well-trained staff with skills, capacity standards and productivity consistent with market
requirements. This goal was partly achieved. Total staff decreased by 37% from about 58,000 in 1995 to
about 37,000 in 2001, which is much more than committed in the RAP. About 6,000 of this reduction was
due to the privatization of BDZ subsidiaries. This action entailed severance payments and an increase of
salaries thus producing benefits only with a time lag. Despite the staff reduction, however, BDZ is still one
of the largest employers of the country, and because railway traffic decreased sustantially while it was
expected at project appraisal stage that it would remain constant, BDZ labor productivity was only
211,000 Traffic Unit/employee in 2001, against 267,000 TU/employee forecasted at appraisal for 1999.
This productiviy is lower than in most other Eastem European countries (for example 284,000
TU/employee in Romania). Salaries have also been kept at a low level, and, as a result, BDZ has lost some
of its most resourceful staff to the private sector. In addition, confronted to short term liquidity problems,
BDZ has often paid staff with delays resulting in frequent tensions and labor unrest.
-6 -



(vi) Regarding investments, the main objective was to (a) define investments commensurate with resources,
and, based on their rentability, establish a priority ranking, (b) implement investments which would ensure
the survival of BDZ, bring the physical assets back to a safe and reliable condition, and enable BDZ to
meet its commercial objectives. This goal was partly achieved. BDZ elaborated and successfully
implemented the RRP which was a well conceived and prioritized investment plan and went a long way
towards bringing key assets back to a safe and reliable condition. BDZ did not succeed, however, in
creating a continuous planning capability. BDZ investment plans have unfortunately remained wish lists of
desirable projects disconnected from the financial capability of BDZ and the Government to finance these
plans and with insufficient concerns for the economic returns on investment.
(vii) Regarding Finance, the main objective was to (a) develop sound financial management, (b) construct,
coordinate, and monitor annual budgets and investment plans consistent with the commercial objectives of
BDZ and the performance obligations of the public service (under PSO contracts), and (c) develop, in
parallel, MIS and cost management ability to ensure effective business evaluation and financial results. As
far as the financial management capability of BDZ is concerned, these objectives were substantially
achieved. With the help of the project training program and consultants, and with additional consultant
assistance organized by EBRD, BDZ has greatly improved. The annual audits of BDZ financial
statements have confirmed the quality of BDZ financial management. The split between NC RI and BDZ
EAD, which could have been a major problem, was handled in a relatively smooth way. As far as BDZ's
financial situation is concerned, the results are mixed and, overall, below the modest goals of the RAP.
This is explained in Section 4.4 below.
(viii) Regarding Environment, the objective was to build an environment management capacity and to set
environmental priorities for BDZ. This goal was achieved. The design and implementation of sound
environmental measures is now mandatory for any project in the railway sector. A project to apply
environmental methods of chemical control on plants along railway lines is currently being developed.
Training courses on environmental matters were provided. Past contamination was discovered in some of
the railway depots and workshops. Part of these issues were tackled as part of the privatization of the
workshops.
The last items of the RAP (Parts K and L) are not discussed here as they were mainly concerned with the
arrangements for project implementation and not with project objective and outcome.
Contract Plan
The first contract plan was signed in February 1996 at the project inception. It was then followed by a
second 1999-2003 contract plan. This second plan clarifies that the State owns the infrastructure while the
responsibilities of BDZ are to act commercially and to operate train services without undertaking any
unprofitable activity. To this end, BDZ was to review its services and make the necessary changes to
secure a basic service pattern at the lowest possible cost and at the highest fare yield. BDZ was also to
produce a list of services that could not be produced without losses and that, consequently, BDZ had to
cease operating. It was then up to the Government to decide whether these services had a social value and,
if they did, to pay for them. In this way, the concept of Public Service Obligations (PSO) payments was
introduced and with them a paramount conceptual change in the relationship between the State and the
railway. In fact, with the PSOs the railway was no longer subsidized. The money the company was to
receive from the State was the due payment for the delivery of unprofitable services that the State wanted
to be continued. Therefore, the Railway company was no longer viewed as an inherently loss-making
company.
-7 -



Although, therefore, the project objective of implementing a contract plan system was achieved in theory, in
practice it did not work for reasons similar to those in almost all similar attempts studied by the Bank. The
main reason was that neither the Government nor BDZ proved to be able or willing to abide by the terms of
the contract plan. Faced with drastic fiscal constraints, the Government could provide only a limited
funding for PSO payments, which did not match its perception of the volume of railway passenger service
that the general public wanted to preserve. BDZ was not willing to take action as permitted by the contract
and close the services that were not paid for. In fact, BDZ did not prepare a reliable assessment of all its
social services and the marginal cost of each one of them as necessary for proper implementation of PSO
contracts. The Government was also reluctant to increase passenger fares for all services (including the
commercial ones) so as to not inhibit poor people's ability to travel. BDZ, on its side, was not willing to
recognize that demand had declined and it was commercially better to focus on a limited volume of services
that the railway could serve well. The contract plan therefore did not prove a contract between accountable
partners and did not result in substantially changed relationships between BDZ and the State. This was
implicitly recognized by the enactment of the new 2000 railway law, which makes railway competition
possible and therefore changes drastically the commercial position of BDZ EAD which was created as a
joint stock company. It is in this context that sound and sustainable relationship between BDZ and the
State should be sought.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Only the achievement of the Bank financed project components is assessed below. The EBRD, ECLAT,
and EU-Phare financed components were on the whole implemented as planned.
Track renewal and Maintenance on Priority Routes
At the end of 2002, 336 km or 80% of the track renewal were completed. This is a major achievement,
given that this program was by far the most important component under Bank financing. In Table 10 in
Annex 9, there are reports on the state of track renewal, as planned and as actually implemented. Not
unexpectedly in the context of the economic downturn, problems with implementation showed up early. In
December 1996, one year after the start, contracts for goods awarded under the project amounted already
to about US$51 million, or 54% of the total loan amount, while the actual track renewal program was yet
to be started. The main cause was a shortage of local counterpart funds to finance the installation works.
Bank missions repeatedly asked for an increase of such funds. To solve, at least partially, this problem, in
1998 BDZ, with Bank support, applied for - and obtained - a EU-PHARE grant of 20.0 million Euros.
This was of major help. However, contracting the works, which was done on a competitive basis, an
important change in the usual arrangements for carrying track rehabilitation, proved difficult and time
consuming to carry out. And budget procedural constraints (the fact that funds had to be used before the
end of the year notwithstanding the delay in making them available) created an additional difficulty.
Another main problem was the delay in the modernization of Svishtov Sleeper Factory, which was to
secure the production of sleepers. At some point, BDZ and the Bank agreed that sleepers be imported from
Macedonia, but that choice eventually had to be given up because of overall financial difficulties.
For a summary of the procurement of materials and track maintenance machines, see Table 8a in Annex 9.
The maintenance machines purchased under the project have been used extensively during these years.
Organized in 4 track maintenance columns, they have annually contributed to the maintenance of about
1,500 km of line (Table 9 in Annex 9).
Management Iinformation System (MIS)
-8 -



The Management Information System component of the project was meant to support BDZ's plan for
improving its management through a modern operational and decision support system. However, despite
much effort, its implementation was not achieved. The Data Network Upgrade is the only part of this
component that was completed satisfactorily and in the absence of the others, its usefulness and
effectiveness is limited.
BDZ issued a tender for the MIS system in 1996 and signed contracts in 1998 and in 1999. Bidding
documents defined the architecture of the system and specified performance, leaving the exact definition of
inputs and outputs to a second stage to be developed with the suppliers during contract implementation.
Unfortunately, implementation was characterized by changes in the general design approach and core
softwares to be used, disagreements between the contractors and BDZ, and, consequently, delays. In the
past two years, the contracts have not made any progress and BDZ has now decided to terminate the
contracts. If an amicable solution, which preserves BDZ interest, cannot be found, BDZ intends to go to
arbitration. As limited funds were expended on the software part of the contracts, the present losses are
limited. The main problem is that much hardware was delivered under the project. BDZ is trying to find a
solution, which could be either having the contractors take the hardware back as part of contract settlement,
or developing adequate software (through adaptation of existing packages in use in other railways) in house
and with local and intemational providers in partnership. The failure of this project component is further
discussed in Section 8. Mainly as a result of this, a significant part of the loan (about EUR 11.0 million)
was not used and cancelled after loan closure.
Training and Technical assistance
The objective of the training and technical assistance components was to support the policy reforms. The
IBRD financing focused on training, while EU-Phare funded technical assistance, particularly one major
contract for assisting BDZ in its restructuring and in the implementation of the RAP. EBRD and other
donors (USTDA, JICA) organized or financed a series of additional technical assistance programs (in
Annex 9, Table 11, is a list of the studies financed during the project period). As recommended, the training
program focused on the areas of planning and budgeting, marketing, human resources development,
financial management and accounting, with emphasis on producing results on the ground through "on the
job" training. Three other training programs were also successfully completed, in Bulgaria and overseas.
Their topics were International Accounting Standard (IAS), internal control, and audit basics. A consultant
funded by a EU Trust Fund arranged by EBRD also completed a financial forecast model to be used in the
field. It was developed on the basis of the old organizational structure and therefore now has to be updated
to support the elaboration of future financial forecasts of the two new companies.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economlic rate of return:
For the purpose of this report, only the economic rate of return (ERR) of the track rehabilitation and
maintenance component was reevaluated. This is justified given that this project component was by far the
most important one in the project in financing terms and the one on which most Bank funds were expended.
The analysis is presented in Annex 3. In summary, the reevaluated ERR is 22% against an SAR estimate
of about 35%. This is due to higher costs, mainly the cost of civil works the extent of which was larger
than expected (see Section 8), and lower benefits due to the traffic decline.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
-9-



The project financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal and therefore no comparison is possible.
However, given the broad scope of the project and the importance of the railway's financial situation on its
future, it is worth while discussing in this section of the ICR the railway's financial performance during the
project period.
BDZ had prepared a financial forecast for the 1994-98 period, based on the traffic forecast, operational
targets and staffing level of RAP. The financial targets for the end of the forecast period were: (i) a
Working Ratio (Operating costs/Operating Revenues) not exceeding 100%; (ii) a Debt Service Ratio
((Gross operating income + government subsidies)/Debt Service) gradually increasing to 1.0. These
financial targets were closely monitored throughout project implementation. As will be seen, results
depended much on the general economic environment as well as political constraints which limited the
scope of tariff increases. Despite courageous measures taken in the past eight years, the railway remains in
a fragile financial situation.
Traffic volume (as shown in Annex 9, Table 3) suffered a sharp reduction during project implementation,
totaling over 40 percent between 1995 and 2001, with the 2001 traffic amounting to only about one third of
the BDZ traffic peak of 1986. That reduction can be compared to the SAR forecast that total traffic would
remain constant at a 1995 level. Indeed, the SAR emphasized the uncertainties surrounding any forecast in
the economic and social circumstances of the time. The optimism was based on the hope for economic
stabilization and on the results of the restructuring process, in particular on the active market-based
approach to be adopted by BDZ. In fact, between 1995 and 1997, traffic initially reached the forecasted
level but mainly because passenger traffic increased due to much reduced real fares. At the beginning of the
year 1998, the traffic was even higher than the target, but the effects of the steep decline in Bulgaria's
economic situation and tariff increases (although they remained still much below real costs) induced a
sudden drop in traffic which has been uninterrupted since. In addition to economic woes, competition
between road and rail transport is another cause of traffic decline. In the last decade, road transport in
Bulgaria has changed drastically due to improved efficiency resulting from the privatization of the
enterprises operating in the sector and a sound policy framework. The results of competition are visible in
particular for passenger traffic, where road transport now has a share of about 70% of the intercity market.
In the freight sector, road complements rail by focusing on shorter distances, higher value and time
sensitive shipments. At the moment its traffic share is estimated at 55%.
While traffic declined, very high inflation limited and, at times, nullified the effect of the continuous fare
adjustments. Indeed, passenger tariffs lagged significantly behind inflation due mainly to the economic and
financial crisis in 1996 and 1997 with hyperinflation of 311 % and 579%, respectively. On the whole,
however, partly under pressure from Bank supervision missions, BDZ succeeded in significantly increasing
the average unit revenues from 1997 to 2001. The average unit revenue increased from US$0.005 to
US$0.009 for passengers and from US$0.0 15 to US$0.021 for freight (Table 4). Thanks to these increases,
the impact of reduced traffic on revenues has been less important. In fact, total traffic revenue decreased
only by 25% from 1995 to 2001 despite a 40% decline in traffic. Yet, rail passengers' fares in Bulgaria are
still very low, if compared with the tariffs of other countries in the region. In 2000, the average revenue per
passenger was US$0.0 10 in Romania, US$0.018 in Poland and US$0.023 in Croatia. Within the nation,
rail fares are significantly lower than the average unit fare of intercity buses. As a result, in total, revenues
from passenger services cover only 25-30% of the costs. On the contrary, the freight sector covers 100% of
its costs. With one third of the production (train-kni) and about 60% of the traffic (TU), the freight sector
accounts for about 80% of BDZ traffic revenues. The low level of passengers' fares is a major cause of
BDZ unsatisfactory financial situation.
The general economic situation has also affected the operational costs, namely because of oil price
-10-



increases and foreign exchange losses. In addition, services, mainly for passengers, have not been adjusted
to the reduced demand. As a result, operational costs have slightly increased (US$216 million in 1995,
US$230 million in 2002) despite the significant staff reduction and other cost cutting measures, such as the
accumulation of a maintenance backlog. Consequently, the cost of operations and public service obligations
and the dependence of the railways on the Government continue to remain high.
In 2002, BDZ losses are expected to be at -134 million Leva without Government subsidy for public
obligation and -72 million Leva after subsidy (about US$-37 million at the current rate of exchange), while
the SAR forecasted deficit was -1,194 million Leva (about -22 million US$, the rate of exchange being then
US$1=55.00 Leva). The Operating Subsidy taken into account for the SAR forecast was 1,900 million leva
(US$34 million), against actual subsidies of 61 million Leva (about US$31 million). All things being
equal, the SAR deficit forecast was exceeded by only US$12 million, which is less then 4% of the entire
BDZ revenue (operating + non operating, without subsidy). However, this slight difference is the result of a
significantly lower level of operating revenues (about 38%), only partly compensated by the revenue
coming from the disposal of assets (mainly non operational surplus wagons), and a lower cost level (-8%).
In summary, compared with the original projection, the railway: (i) does not absorb an amount of state
subsidy which is significantly higher, but (ii) receives a higher subsidy per TU.
Perfornance of BDZ against the targeted working ratios and debt service coverage ratios are presented in
Annex 9, Table 1. On the whole there was a slight underperformance for the working ratio, and a
significant shortage (except in 2000) for the debt service coverage ratio.
4.5 institutional development impact:
Directly or indirectly the project institutional development impact has been major. Obviously it is not
possible to isolate the project's independent impact on the changes that have been implemented in BDZ
during the project period. Yet, the institutional structure of the Bulgarian railway sector has changed
completely since 1995 and the change, if still unfinished, is highly positive. The project's broad training
program delivered at a key time in the change process, the services of intemational consultants provided
under the project or in parallel (and to some extent in support of the project) by JICA and USTDA, and the
assessments and support provided by the Bank and EBRD throughout project implementation have all
contributed much to the change. This is mentioned in the Borrower's completion report.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governmenit or implementing agency:
The economic and financial crisis in 1996 and 1997 and the adverse external shocks resulting from the
Yugoslav crisis led to a difficult external environment marked by hyperinflation, a record-high depreciation
of the Lev, turmoil in international markets, unfavorable commodity price developments, and trade
disruptions. This had a significantly negative impact on rail traffic volumes and thus on the financial
situation of the railway. In particular: (i) the results of the efforts to financially stabilize BDZ were less
than expected; (ii) the lack of funds from the Government as well as BDZ has hindered the synchronized
progress of the purchase of materials for track renewal, financed by World Bank's funds, and of the locally
financed installment works. As explained before, this has delayed physical implementation of the important
track renewal project component.
5.2 Factors generally subject to govenmment control:



The relationship between BDZ and the State-Owner did not promote the creation of an effective
decision-making environment. The lack of an adequate incentive structure for BDZ managers also reduced
the impact of railway restructuring. Moreover, the continuation of unsustainable passenger services much
beyond the volume that the State budget could afford to subsidize, is another major issue that the
Government could potentially address but did not mainly because of social concerns.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implen7enting agenciy control:
The changes in volume and nature of the passenger and freight demand have been so sudden that BDZ,
being focused mainly on production activities, as any other traditional railway, has been unable to update
its culture and match the new market environment. As a result, BDZ management may not have perceived
fully the importance of focusing on commercial activities and adopting innovative marketing methods and
tools.
5 4 Costs andfi nancinzg:
The original plan for renewal of 414 km of track assumed that the Bulgarian Government would entirely
finance the installation works, while the Loan would finance the purchase of materials and equipment.
Constrained by resources, BDZ was not able to maintain the pace of financing and fell behind schedule. To
accelerate the process, as said earlier, EU-PHARE provided a grant of 20 million Euros. These funds were
used for renewing 65 km of track, out of the planned 414 km. The foreign cost of this project component
(financed by the World Bank loan), met the original forecast. The local cost (installation works, including
those financed by EU-PHARE, plus the purchase of sleepers and other locally produced materials) is
forecasted to be - at project completion - about US$106 million, against an appraisal estimate of about
US$85 million. This is an increase of about 25%.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely. This rating is justified by considering both the sustainability of the
reforms that took place during project implementation and the sustainability of the investments included in
the project.
There is little doubt that the railway sector reforms are irreversible and there are obvious reasons for this.
Indeed, the reforms have strong technical justifications and are based on the long term reform experience of
many railways in the world, especially those of Westem Europe. They are similar to more radical refomis
being implemented in countries with strong links to Bulgaria, especially Romania and Poland. They are
well conceived, well implemented in general, and with strong ownership among most stakeholders in the
railway sector. Finally, and even more importantly, they are fully in line with the principles and directives
of the European Union on the railway sector and are likely to benefit from strong continued EU support in
their implementation. It should be emphasized that Bulgaria's strong will to join the EU, which is now
fmnly planned for 2007, makes it very unlikely that there would be backtracking on railway sector reform.
This would just not be compatible with the EU transport acquis communautaire. Whenever the reforms
have faltered, especially in the establishment of track access charges that create a main cross subsidy from
freight to passenger transport, the Government has clearly expressed in the context of a new multi-sector
Programmatic Adjustment Loan that will shortly be presented to the Board, its clear intention to make the
necessary corrections, and it has agreed to a deadline for taking action.
There is some uncertainty on the long term sustainability of the project's physical investments mainly
- 12-



because of the poor financial situation of the railway sector. There are good reasons, however, to believe
that the sustainability of these investments is likely. First, although significant, the financial losses of BDZ
have not been of such a magnitude as to impact track maintenance. Their effect has mainly been on the lack
of renewal of traction and rolling stock as well as on delays in infrastructure rehabilitation. Faced with cash
shortages, BDZ has consistently given priority to current maintenance and safety in the past and, because
this is a strong part of the railway's culture, the new railway infrastructure company is likely to continue to
do so. Second, the resolution of financial issues is central to the reforms that are being planned in the
railway sector. The establishment of contracts for public service obligation and the limitation of loss
making services to those covered by such contracts is expected to improve much the financial situation of
the railway operating company and therefore its ability to pay its dues to the infrastructure company.
Finally, the project was rightly designed so as to combine major track rehabilitation works with large
improvements in the pool of machines and other equipment necessary for the current maintenance of the
track. The project therefore increased very much the railway's ability to maintain effectively and cheaply
the track in general and the project investment in particular.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operationis:
As far as the project's physical investments are concerned, the transition to regular operations has occured
on a continuous basis during project implementation. This is due to the nature of the investment program,
which included the rehabilitation of several small sections of track, which were put in service as soon as
completed, and many pieces of equipment that were badly needed for the railway's operations and were put
in operations as soon as received. Because of the great need for the project components and appropriate
design and specifications, there were no disruption in the production processes and no problems of
coordination. The transition happened therefore seamlessly.
As far as the railway reforms are concerned, the transition also took place on a continuous basis as
measures were implemented step by step. The main changes that resulted from the implementation of the
November 2000 railway law were remarkably prepared and executed, including the drafting of almost all
necessary directives, procedures, and regulations over an eighteen-month period, the creation of the
regulatory agency, and the separation of BDZ into two new companies. For these reasons, and because of
the strong esprit de corps existing in the railway sector in Bulgaria as in most countries, disruptions were
minimized
The restructuring process of the railway is obviously not finished. The main issues that now need to be
addressed are the following: (i) further rationalization of railway network and services to concentrate
activities on satisfying demands for which rail transport has a competitive advantage, taking into account
both cost recovery and the feasibility of replacing rail transport by road transport; (ii) identification of
services deemed 'social' and therefore to be maintained and paid for by the State under PSO contracts, and
evaluation of the right price for these services; (iii) further reduction in labor force to improve productivity
at least to the level of the railways in countries similar to Bulgaria; (iv) strengthening of the autonomy of
BDZ EAD in the decision making process, particularly in selecting its commercial stategies and
investments, and setting its tariffs; (v) establishment of fair and transparent track access charges, avoiding
cross-subsidy; and (vi) ensuring that any willing and competent railway service supplier may be licensed
and start operating without high transaction costs. The Government is well aware of these issues and has
developed an action program to address them in the coming two to three years. The Government and the
World Bank are also now planning a series of programmatic adjustment loans (PAL) to support reforms in
key sectors; the PAL's Letter of Development Policy includes an important chapter on railway reforms
(summarized in Table 12, Annex 9) coordinated with the Government's action program. It is under this
framework that railway sector restructuring is planned to continue.
- 13-



7. gi3nk and o3rrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending
Project preparation was carried out expeditiously and professionally, although it was the first railway
rehabilitation project in the ECA Region. The project identification phase took into consideration the
Government's and the Bank's assistance strategies, which included macroeconomic stabilization,
transformation of state enterprises and modernization of Bulgaria's physical infrastructure. The EU
directives on railway sector, as well as railway reforms undertaken in Western Europe, including those in
the UK and Germany, were taken into account in designing this project. Preparation was mainly carried out
by three staff members, including the Task Team Leader (Transport Economist), the Railway Engineer,
and the IT specialist. This team had an adequate breadth of expertise to prepare all of the essential elements
of the project while keeping the preparation cost to a minimum. The World Bank's performance is thus
rated as satisfactory.
72 Supervision:
The supervision of the project was satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out on a regular basis
with competent professional staff. Reporting on project status, including the project monitoring indicators,
was done regularly and reflected the progress being made. The number and expertise of Bank staff devoted
to supervision was adequate to keep track of project progress. There were no deviations from World Bank
policies, and no revisions to the project design were necessary. Supervision missions gave a great deal of
attention to sector reforms and provided recommendations to the Government on key sector issues (such as
the railway law, tariff policies and loss making passenger services). The Bank team organized and
administered a Japanese Trust Fund to formulate recommendations on ternination of loss making services,
establishment of public service obligation contracts, and marketing improvements. Intensive support by a
qualified consultant was also provided to mediate the disagreements between BDZ and the two MIS
contractors, thanks to a Canadian Trust Fund. Finally, the Bank team developed a comprehensive format
for presenting and analyzing the key data having a bearing on the railway's financial performance, which
was used systematically in supervision missions in the past three years and could be considered as "best
practice" for supervision of State-owned enterprises.
7 3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation:
The Borrower (BDZ) and the Government were fully involved and cooperative in the preparation of the
project, which was meant to deepen and strengthen a reform and restructuring process already in progress.
The Government was indeed well aware of the need to reform the railway sector and to restructure BDZ,
and some key changes were already under way by the time of project preparation. The achievements prior
to the official approval of the project included: (i) approval of a new draft railway law; (ii) downsizing of
railway production by cancellation of services on two low density lines and by introduction of new
timetables for freight and passenger services; (iii) increases in freight and passengers tariffs (by 45% in real
terms); and (iv) staff reduction (by about 30% starting in 1989). Project preparation proceeded fast. The
central and most complex part was the preparation of the RAP. BDZ understood Bank requirements well,
- 14 -



and there was good cooperation between BDZ and the Bank project preparation missions. BDZ carried out
the evaluation of the costs of the project's physical components, while the financial projections and targets
were based on the forecasts, operational targets and staffing levels already stipulated in the RAP. The
Borrower's performance during project preparation is therefore rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As far as restructuring is concemed, Government performance was mixed. The Government did not grant
to BDZ the autonomy that was implied by the "contract plan" process. It also did not take the difficult
measures (in terms of increase in passenger fares and termination of loss making services) that were
necessary in order to ensure financial sustainability of the railway sector given the fiscal constraints and
thus the inability of the Government to provide a high volume of subsidies. Yet, the Government did
implement some major and difficult actions, most importantly the divestiture of all ancillary activities and
the formulation and implementation of a new railway law that radically transformed the sector. The
Government also supported BDZ's large scale reduction of labor despite very high levels of unemployment
in the country. This reduction was necessary if only to maintain BDZ productivity at the same level given
the sharp decrease in traffic.
As far as the physical aspects of the project are concerned, it was a problem that the Government did not
provide sufficient funding for the track rehabilitation program. However, the severity of the 1997 financial
crisis in Bulgaria and the painful and courageous process of macro economic stabilization (in the context of
a currency board system) which strictly limited State expenditures, explains why it was not possible to
provide substantially more. On the whole therefore, the positive aspects of Government's performance far
outweigh the negative.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Throughout the project period, BDZ took measures continuously to implement the RAP, to adjust its
organization and processes, and to train its staff so as to increase efficiency and to adapt to its changing
economic environment. Although BDZ could have incorporated more thoroughly the numerous
recommendations made by foreign consultants, it did try to extract and implement the essence of these
proposals. It also supported competently the Government's implementation of the railway law. In
addition, BDZ took action, to the extent possible given Government's social concerns, to address its
financial issues. In particular, it prepared a well conceived financial recovery plan in 1999 to stem the
deterioration of its financial situation. It strengthened the plan a year later in response to Bank concems.
Passenger transport is the main area where BDZ should have been more active through getting a better
understanding of the needs of its clientele and the true competitive advantage of railway transport, and
limiting its losses by adapting better its services to the much reduced demand, as all truly commercial
companies do.
The project implementation group functioned well. Procurement and disbursement was in general carried
out well. Project records were kept meticulously and reports produced on time.
7.7 Overall Borrow er perforniance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
8. Lessons Learned
Policy reforms and lending instrument:
- 15 -



Project implementation showed that, if circumstances and project design are right, the Bank could play a
substantial role in sector policy reforms within the context of a specific investment loan (SIL). This was
due to: (i) BDZ and the Govemment's openness and willingness to consider Bank analysis and
recommendations; and (ii) the project's mix of major investment components that were key to BDZ's
future, as well as a comprehensive restructuring plan (RAP) that included specific objectives and
monitoring indicators in key areas such as finance, divestiture, and staff reduction. In brief, project design
made the Bank a legitimate partner of BDZ and the Government in the transformation of the railway sector
over the project period and provided key targets on which the debate could focus. This was reinforced from
1999 on by the visibility given to railway reforms by the IMF stabilization program as well as the Bank's
own growing concem with structural adjustment and initiation of a broad programmatic adjustment lending
approach. But the opportunity offered by the stabilization and adjustment programs could not have been
taken, had a strong relationship not been established between the Bank, BDZ, and the Govemment through
investment lending.
Design of major information technology proiect component
The excruciating experience in the implementation of the project component aimed at establishment of new
management information systems and the eventual failure of this component cast doubt on the approach
adopted in its design. The approach was to use international tumkey contractors, over a limited period of
time, to put together and install major systems (hardware and software) that were a complete departure
from existing software in BDZ and were unfortunately not linked with changes in management processes or
other operational improvements for which there would have been strong ownership within BDZ. The
radical nature of the changes, the lack of a trial and error process, the speed of decision making made
necessary by the contract implementation process, the high stakes but also uncertain basis on which to
make decisions, and the differences (in terms of corporate culture, goals, and approach) between the
contractors and their supervisors within BDZ were such that an adversarial relationship was almost
unavoidable and could not be mitigated by a strong common agreement on the ultimate objectives to be
achieved. While still following the same strategy of importing and adapting existing software successfully
in use in other railways and compatible with EU standards, it would probably have been better for BDZ to
follow a more lengthy and more organic process of trial and error and adjustment over a longer period of
time with (i) clear linkages between the new information systems and the business process re-engineering
that they help implement, (ii) the management of software design being entrusted to a fully empowered unit
of BDZ and work done by local and intemational experts in equal partnership. The problem of this
alternative approach is that it cannot be implemented within the context of a fully competitive, transparent,
procurement process and is therefore not amenable to Bank financing.
Optimization of track renewal sub-projects
As stated by the January 2001 mission, which visited three track rehabilitation sites, the extent of track
renewal works went far beyond track replacement and included reconstruction of the track. This is in fact
frequent, at least in a traditional technically minded railway company, where the aim is often focused on the
technical quality of the work in itself, instead of on the efficiency of the output. In such a case, delays are
accepted in exchange for the 'perfect' result and financial profitability aspects are not a primary factor of
decision. In this context, it would probably have been justified for the Bank to request a specific feasibility
study of each track renewal sub-project with an economic comparison of alternatives, something that is not
usual for rail track rehabilitation project components. Final engineering (especially estimated costs) would
have had to be consistent with the feasibility study and each sub-project would have been implemented only
after Bank clearance.
- 16 -



Relationships between project components
The project included the modernization of the Svishtov Sleeper Factory as one activity of the track renewal
component, the completion of which was a prerequisite for installation works. In fact, this modernization
did not make progress as expected and became a source of serious problems and eventually of delay for the
track renewal component, already hampered by the lack of counterpart funds. The addition of such a
parallel output and the risks inherent in making a major project component dependent on a relatively minor
one, should have been better assessed, and an alternative should have been considered. Eventually a
significant share of the sleepers needed for track renewal had to be procured from other sources than the
Svishtov factory
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower /implementing agency
On November 28, 2002, the Borrower issued its own Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Excerpts
of this report are provided below.
Track renewal program
The main task was the track renewal. It started in parallel with the procurement of materials and track
maintenance machines under contracts financed by the World Bank for the purchasing of rails (type S49
and UIC 60), elastic fastenings, flanged plates, spiral rings for joints, tensile steel for concrete sleepers,
electric rail lubricator, mechanical lubricator for rails, consumables for rail welding, heavy machines for
track maintenance, light machines for track maintenance, system STRAIT, equipment and new technology
for rail welding plant. Delays in track renewal, due to shortage of means from the State Budget and other
organizational reasons, led to an extension of the deadline for the Project. Currently 336 km out of the total
planned 414 km are renewed.
Management information System
An important point in implementation of the project was the construction and introduction of management
information systems of BDZ and their communication infrastructure. Only the contract for Data network
upgrading was totally completed. The contracts for the three information systems, Freight Operation
System, Passenger Information System and Financial Management System were not completed up to the
latest availability date of loan funds (06/30/2002). The main reason for that are problems that arose
between BDZ and the Contractors. The current situation is the following. The cost incurred for the
implementation of FMS and FOS amounted to US$3,080,000 out of the US$9,626,000 envisaged by the
Contract. The cost incurred for the implementation of PIS was US$3,000,000 out of the US$ 9,262,000
envisaged by the contract. Some of the delivered hardware was not approved for operation and has been
kept in storing facilities. The experience and knowledge of BDZ experts accumulated during the discussion
of the modules can be further utilized for the development and implementation of new FOS and PIS.
Railway restructuring
As in all other countries in the world the restructuring proved to be a long process of reorganization and
optimization, which is not yet completed.
The railway network was re-shaped. That includes changing of status of the lines, stations and marshalling
yards. Many stations and halts were shut down, or included in scheme of non-24 hours operation. A
program was developed for closure, or transferring to local industries, or subsidizing by local authority of
low density lines. Because of the Government lack of interest and support the program is still in process of
- 17 -



implementation.
In 2000 the process of drawing the subsidiary and supporting activities out of BDZ was finalized. The
International Accounting System was adopted and a practice for reporting the financial results through
audit was established. Many improvements were realized in regard to safety of railway operations. A
number of studies were made for the introduction of combined transport services. Marketing structures of
freight and passenger traffic were established. The marketing topics had the priority in the training
component financed by the World Bank. The marketing units prepared the business plans for freight and
passenger traffic. The markets where the railway has a comparative advantage were identified and in the
train timetable introduced in 2000, the number of passenger trains was reduced to an optimal level. During
the period 1995-2002, the number of employee was drastically reduced from 58,300 to 37,255. According
to the Railway Law (1/01/2002), the functions of NC BDZ were terminated without liquidation and the two
independent enterprises National Company "Railway Infrastructure" and BDZ EAD were established as
successors.
The World Bank significantly supported the realization of the railway reform in Bulgaria and assisted the
Government in the preparation of the next stage of BDZ restructuring. The World Bank pointed out that the
Government did not compensate BDZ adequately for the significant social functions that BDZ was being
requested to provide. As a result, for many years BDZ had to balance its cash flow by reducing
maintenance expenses below requirements, and its transport capacity and technical efficiency declined. This
process has to be stopped. The measures to obtain long term viability and efficiency are: (i) rationalization
of railway network and services and concentration on those services for which rail transport has a
comparative advantage, (ii) agreement between the Government and the new operating company on the
provision of a limited amount of non commercial passenger services that should be fully remunerated under
PSO contracts (except cases in which those services could be realized by buses through franchising
contracts), and termination of loss-making services that will not be subject to PSO, (iii) gradual increase of
passenger tariffs and parallel investments to enhance the service quality (iv) autonomy of the operating
company, which should have the means to become market-oriented, (v) establishment of an infrastructure
fee reflecting the full economic costs of infrastructure provision. During meetings in Sofia, the Bank
pointed out that the Government should undertake the said measures. In order to define the role that the
railway sector should play in the future of Bulgaria and to determine the reform measures within a
comprehensive framework and formulate a long term financially sustainable strategy, the Bank
recommended separate Business Plan to be prepared for the railway infrastructure and the operating
company for the period 2002-2006. By all those initiatives and the financial support by providing the loan
for the railway rehabilitation, the World Bank has considerably assisted the timely and effective reforming
of BDZ and the railway sector in Bulgaria as a whole.
(b) Cofinanciers:
On September 6, 2001, EBRD issued its own ICR. The overall assessment of the project provided in this
ICR was as follows:
Project performance: Good
Fulfillment of objectives: Good
Overall client financial Performance: Unsatisfactory
Transition Impact: Good
Additionality: Verified in all respect
Environmental impact, performance of sponsor/Bank: Good
Environmental impact, extent of environmental Change: Some
Bank Handling: Excellent
- 18-



Risk assessment Agrees with Latest portfolio Risk rating? Yes
Overall Operation Performance Rating: Successful
In particular, the overall fulfillment of objectives was assessed as good on the ground of the following
justifications (excerpts from the document):
The principal objective of the Project coincides with the final objective: support and extend the overall
railway restructuring process to create a financially viable, independent, market-oriented railway. The
Project has started and extended the process of restructuring. Although BDZ is not directly competing with
other rail operators, it is operating in a highly competitive environment, due to the alternative that the auto
transport (majority private) offers. The Project has necessitated the enactment of a rail law in 1996 and has
supported the enactment of an amended law in 2000, paving the way for ultimate competition among rail
operators. BDZ has suffered financial losses due to the factors outlined in the "Commnents on Variance"
commentary to the last objective below.
Objective 1: Implement an initial set of policy measures, notably (i) setting up the legal framework for
restructuring; (ii) establishing improved cost accounting procedures, and (iii) a package of cost
reduction measures.
Actual performance: (i) Legal framework for restructuring is in place. The implementation of a Law,
which allows commercially independent operation of the railway was a pre-condition for the Bank's
financing. The State is obliged to reimburse BDZ for Public Service Obligations and is committed to
invest in capital improvements under regularly updated multi-annual contracts. In 2000, a new Railway
Law was enacted, paving the way for the next steps of the railway restructuring - separating
infrastructure from operations and ultimately allowing for competition among several operators. (ii)
Progress in establishing improved cost accounting procedures has been partially made. Work continues
and is on track to achieve notable improvements. Setting up of an integrated Management Information
System, comprising financial management, passenger and freight operation systems, is part of the
World Bank (IBRD) loan. Following initial delays two contracts were signed, one in October 1998
(Passenger) and the other in January 1999 (Freight & Finance). The customisation and the
implementation of the Passenger system has been met with significant problems and it is yet unclear
whether a viable solution will be found. The Financial and Freight systems are expected to take until
the end of 2002 to implement in full. (iii) Good progress has been achieved with cost-cutting measures.
BDZ has successfully implemented a socially difficult staff-cutting programme (currently 38,000
compared to a headcount of 58,300 at Project inception). Additionally, the management structure has
been flattened and the regional structure simplified by closing and merging regions. Whilst the reform
process has continued, serious concems exist with regard to rationalisation of the rail network. The
effect of cost-cutting achievements will become visible when traffic starts to pick up. Such a
bottoming-out took place in 2000 and there are signs that it will continue in 2001.
Comments on variance: (i) None. (ii) The major delays and set-backs in the implementation of the
information systems can be attributed to the slow understanding process between BDZ staff and the
contractors who had to set up the systems. The process of system customising has proven to be longer
than initially anticipated (in addition to some tendering delays). In a dynamically functioning
organisation such as BDZ, such undue delays have caused cost overruns, which may hamper the
completion of the Passenger system. The IFIs (WB and EBRD) have asked the Government to cover
for the shortfalls. The Bank has been proactive in searching for intermediate solutions for the lack of
adequate accounting systems. The Bank has mobilised two TC assignments with this purpose: (a) one,
to implement a simplified costing model (OSCAR V), building up on a previous software version that
-19-



BDZ already had and (b) the second, to provide a major training to financial and accounting staff
aimed at familiarisation with the cost centre accounting, the Intemational Accounting Standards and
the generally practised forecasting techniques. The latter is conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers. (iii)
Overall, the financial effect of cost-cutting measures has been limited due to substantial increases in
some cost categories, most notably energy (due to inflation & intemational fuel price hikes), which
understates the achievements of other cost-cutting measures. The efforts to rationalise the rail network
have failed to bring the initially expected financial results.
Obiective 2: Improve safety and operational efficiency by provision of fimds for essential rehabilitation
activities.
Actual performance: (i) The project for the supply of 9 ballast cleaning, tamping and track renewal
machines, plus 15 catenary inspection vehicles has been completed, financed 60% by Export Credit
Loans and 40% by the Bank. (ii) Investment in automatic train protection system, centralised control &
interlockings system and automatic block & axle counters system is almost completed, financed by the
EU Phare component. The contractor is Alcatel. (iii) 244km out of targeted 362km of tracks have been
renewed, financed by the WB and BDZ. Priority routes have been completed. (iv) Refurbishment of 50
coaches has been successfully completed (contracted to ADTranz) financed by EBRD.
Comments on Variance (i) None. (ii) Some tendering delays have been experienced, but progress has
otherwise been satisfactory. (iii) Track renewal has slipped due to cost overruns and lack of
counterparty funds (i.e. the initially envisaged government financing). The Government is nevertheless
committed to continue track renewal through own resources, albeit at lower-than-initially-envisaged
speed. (iv) Cost overruns and insufficient govemment financing have been covered with contingencies
and some component reallocations.
Objective 3: Support and extend the overall railway restructuring process which has as its final goal a
financially viable, independent, market-oriented railway.
Actual performance: To a certain extent this objective overlaps with the first objective for an initial
implementation of policy measures - please see the comments in the first box above.
Although the railway restructuring process has not been complete and BDZ is still suffering extensive
financial losses, the Project has been an important first step in setting the priorities and the methods for
the successful restructuring.
Comments on variance: Negative financial results are due to: (i) adverse exogenous factors, mostly the
severe economic recession in Bulgaria in 1996-97 (shortly after the Project inception) and the war in
Yugoslavia affecting transit freight traffic; (ii) strong competition from auto-transport, which is better
positioned for short-distance hauls (representing the majority in Bulgaria) and (iii) changing and
sometimes inconsistent management of BDZ, which has hampered the creation of good marketing team
and the implementation of cost-centre accounting as a first step to identify and limit loss-making
activities.
The rate of return is evaluated at 32%. as at appraisal. It is difficult to quantify the economy-wide effect of
the Project due to the number and the variety of the factors which have influence. Despite, however, the
fact that BDZ has suffered unexpected financial losses, the Project Team believes that the intended
beneficial effect for the economy has been achieved with the completion of the Project.
Lessons leamed
-20 -



1- In order to contain financial losses of the rail-operators and develop competitiveness, a transparent
contractual relationship should exist between the rail operators and the Government, whereby the
government shall reimburse the rail companies for provision of public services, which would otherwise
render them uncompetitive.
2- For railways to hold certain competitive edge, the service needs to be excellent, especially in the
following: (i) take less time to transport compared with auto-transport, which hinges on a rational
rail-network and (ii) comfortable service for passengers and secure service for freight. While BDZ has
achieved the second, the first condition is still not present which has hampered BDZ's competitive
position. It ultimately requires a very good and flexible management to analyse and constantly
rationalise the rail-network.
3- Although having a limited leverage over public entities, the Bank should seek to promote the human
potential in its investee companies, by providing of training and advising on general management
strengthening.
4- When providing consultant help, the Bank should make sure that know-how is transferred
effectively, providing training to both senior and middle-level management and staff, directly involved
with the day-to-day operations.
5- The Bank should seek to foster a proper cost accounting since the very start - as proper accounting
practices are key to proper decision making and the financial results of the company.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
10. Additional Information
See Annex 9
-21 -



Annex D. Key Performan         ce llndicators/Log Franme Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
. Indicator/Miatrix  X          . .  Projectod ir las PSR                  ActuaULatest Estimate
A. Improved railway sector legal framework  done                               done much beyond expectation
B. Restructured railway enterprise(s) as
evidenced by:
1. Staff Productivity (Thousand TU/per  267                                  212
employee)
2 Working Ratio                        100                                     10S
3. Debt Service Coverage Ratio         1.0                                     0.5
4. Separation of non-core activities   Separation of 16 enterprises            Separation and privatzation (or termination)
I                                                                              of 16 enterprises
5. Staff rediction (from a total of 55.600 in  47,600 total staff              37,300 total staff
1995)
C. Implementation of Contract Plan     Completed                               Completed but not applied
Output Indicators:
|;_____._-a   ______or__atri__          __ _      _,_--;_-_P_oJect_d_in__stI P$R  icualsLatest Estimate
A.1 Track renewal;                     414 km                                  336 km
A.2 Improvement of track maintenance   Completed                               Completed
capacity
B. Implementation of new financial     Completed                               Only data networkcapacity upgraded
management, freight operations, and
passenger information systems
C. Staff training                      Completed                               Completed
End of project
Only the outputs related to the Bank financed parts of the project are mentioned above.
-22-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
~~ ~Actual~/Latest- -Perc-entageo~
Track renewal and maintenance on priority routes    125.60          131.30
Management Information System (MIS)                  19.30            8.83
Training                                              1.20           0.87
Signalling and Telecommunications                    30.10          30.10
Track Maintenance Machines and spares                74.30          65.70
Traction and Rolling Stock maintenance (including    20.90           15.27
environment)
Rehabilitation of Coaches                            21.00          26.03
Locomotive Driver Simulator                           1.80           0.00
Technical Assistance                                  1.70            1.60
Total Baseline Cost                                 295.90         279.70
Physical Contingencies                               0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                  0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            295.90          279.70
Total Financing Required             295.90         279.70
Contingencies have been added to the base costs at appraisal in order to make a valid comparison between
appraisal estimates and actual costs.
Sources of information were the Bank Staff Appraisal Report, the Borrower's Completion Report, and
various EBRD reports. When information was missing, as for some local costs, it was assumed that they
were the same as at appraisal.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
tur                                         4#_Sf        1''2 NV1.F3     'Total Cosft
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00         75.40        75.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     91.90          0.00         12.00        94.40        198.30
(71.10)       (0.00)        (9.00)       (0.00)       (80.10)
3. Services                  19.30          0.00         1.20          1.70        22.20
(13.90)       (0.00)        (1.00)       (0.00)       (14.90)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     111.20         0.00         13.20        171.50       295.90
(85.00)       (0.00)       (10.00)        (0.00)      (95.00)
-23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB                              2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB          Other
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           0.00          83.70         83.70
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        104.02         0.00                         89.50        193.52
(79.78)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (79.78)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           0.87          1.60          2.47
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.67)         (0.00)        (0.67)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        104.02         0.00           0.87          174.80       279.69
(79.78)        (0.00)         (0.67)        (0.00)        (80.45)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
_  _  ..          .                  _     -   -              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage or Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate    [
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank       Govt      CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Track renewal and        50.20     75.40     0.00      47.59      64.20     19.50    94.8   85.1    0.0
maintenance on priority
routes
Management information   13.90     5.40      0.00       8.09      0.74      0.00     58.2   13.7   0.0
system (MIS)
Training                  1.00      0.20     0.00       0.67      0.20      0.00     67.0   100.0   0.0
Signalling and           0.00      13.40     16.70      0.00      13.40     16.70    0.0    100.0  100.0
telecommunications
Track maintenance        29.90     19.80     24.60     24.10      19.80    21.80     80.6   100.0  88.6
machines and spares
Traction and rolling stock  0.00   5.50      15.40      0.00      5.50      9.77     0.0    100.0  63.4
maintenance including
spares
Rehabilitation of passenger  0.00  5.60      15.40      0.00      5.60     20.43     0.0    100.0  132.7
coaches
Locomotive driver        0.00       0.50      1.30      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.0     0.0    0.0
simulator
Technical assistance     0.00      0.00       1.70      0.00      0.00      1.60     0.0    0.0    94.1
-24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Re-evaluation of the Economic Internal Rate of Return
This reevaluation is limited to the main project component for track rehabilitation and provision of track
maintenance equipment since the other project components financed by the Bank are not amenable to an
objective economic analysis.
General
The program was focused on improvements to lines 1, 2, 3, 5, and 8 which are the priority rail lines in
Bulgaria and have a total length of 1,883 lan.
Because of track condition, nearly half (926 Iam) the total length of these five priority lines were subjected
to speed restrictions and in some cases to permissible axle load restrictions. The economic effects of
restrictions were the following: (i) the efficiency of utilization of locomotives and rolling stock was
reduced; and (ii) the commercial speed of passenger trains was affected and thus loss of traffic to roads
was exacerbated. In addition, because of the sub-standard track condition: (i) the cost of locomotives and
rolling stock maintenance increased; and (ii) the accumulated backlog of track maintenance was a
significant operational and financial burden on BDZ. Furthermore, inadequate track maintenance reduced
safety levels.
The benefits of this project component are:
*   Removal of speed restrictions
*   Reduced maintenance costs
*   Reduced derailments
Evaluation at appraisal
The reference case was the "deferred rehabilitation" alternative. Removal of speed restrictions were to
produce an increase of the average commercial speed by 15 km/hour -. or 30% - for passengers and by 10
km/hour - or 40% - for freight trains. With the deferred rehabilitation alternative, the speed improvements,
achieved later, would be 5 km/hour less for passengers and 3 km/hour less for freight trains.It was assumed
that traffic would remain constant over the period of analysis. The appraisal studies estimated the following
economic value of benefits: (i) US$6 million annually for passenger time savings; and (ii) US$48 million
annually for speed benefits. In addition, the economic values of reduced maintenance needs were the
following: (i) cost of the ten-yearly maintenance in the deferred rehabilitation alternative is 25% more than
in the project alternative; and (ii) the annual cost per kilometer is US$5,000 less. Reduced traction and
rolling stock maintenance needs and reduced derailments were not used in the economic analysis. The
economic analysis prudently took into account only 50% of these savings. These savings were allocated
85% to track improvements and 15% to signaling improvements. The cost evaluated at appraisal were US$
130 million.
As shown in the table 1, the EIRR for track renewal and track maintenance equipment was evaluated at
34.8% without passengers time savings and at 42.7% should the passengers time savings be taken into
account.
-25 -



Evaluation at project completion
At project completion, the evaluation of EIRR was done following the same methodology as at appraisal.
The two results are then comparable. The evaluation takes into account: (i) the decreased train-kIn
production, and consequently the reduction in speed benefit by 20% (speed benefits were in fact to be the
economic result of a better utilization of rolling stock and improved labor productivity, obtained with the
rescheduling of the trains); (ii) the decreased passenger traffic, and the parallel reduction by 40% of the
passenger time saving; (iii) the actual costs for the track renewal and track maintenance equipment, which
have increased to US$174 million; (iv) the two years delay for the component's completion
(implementation of this project lasts 5 years instead of the assumed 3 years); and (v) the assumption that
the benefit due to saving in track maintenance costs are as evaluated at appraisal.
As shown in the table 2, the IRR for track renewal and track maintenance equipments is now 22.1%
without passengers time savings and 26.9% if passenger time savings are taken into account.
-26-



CALCULATION OF THE INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
TABLE I
AT APPRAISAL
With    Without    Speed     Routine   Passengers   Net with   Net without
Investments      Benefit     Maint.     Time      pass time   pass time
savings     savings
1995     43.49     16.31                                       -27.18      -27.18
1996     43.49     16.31       3.26       2.07       2.74      -19.11      -21.85
1997     43.49     16.31      10.44       2.07        4.9       -9.77      -14.67
1998               16.31      20.29       2.07       6.63        45.3       38.67
1999               16.31      18.34       2.07       6.13       42.85       36.72
2000               16.31      18.34       2.07       5.64       42.36        36.72
2001               16.31      16.47       2.07       5.17       40.02       34.85
2002               16.31      14.67       2.07       4.71       37.76        33.05
2003               16.31      12.95       2.07       4.27        35.6        31.33
2004               16.31      12.95       2.07       3.84       35.17        31.33
2005                          11.29       2.07       3.43       16.79        13.36
2006                           9.69       2.07       3.02       14.78        11.76
2007                           9.69       2.07       3.09       14.85        11.76
IRR                                                                42.75%      34.82%
TABLE 2
AT PROJECT COMPLETION
With    Without    Speed     Routine   Passengers   Net with   Net without
Investments      Benefit     Maint.     Time      pass time   pass time
savings     savings
1999      35.8     16.31                                       -19.49       -19.49
2000       35.8    16.31       2.61       2.07       1.48      -13.33       -14.81
2001      35.8     16.31       6.02       2.07       1.99       -9.42       -11.41
2002      35.8     16.31       9.42       2.07       2.48       -5.52        -8.00
2003      35.8     16.31      12.83       2.07       3.24       -1.36        -4.60
2004               16.31      16.23       2.07       3.98       38.59        34.61
2005               16.31      14.67       2.07       3.56       36.61        33.05
2006               16.31      13.18       2.07       3.22       34.78        31.56
2007               16.31      13.18       2.07       2.83       34.39        31.56
2008               16.31      11.50       2.07       2.56       32.44        29.88
2009                          10.36       2.07       2.30       14.73        12.43
2010                           9.03       2.07       2.42       13.52        11.10
2011                           7.75       2.07       2.47       12.29         9.82
IRR                                                                26.88%      22.08%
-27-



Annex 4. Bank llnputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identirfcation/Preparation
03/16/93
06/15/93
Appraisal/Negodation
06/24/94                  1   TASK MANAGER                   S            S
04/17/95                  1   ENGINEER                       S            S
I   ENV. SPECIALIST                 S           S
I   FINANCIAL ANALYST               S           S
I   OPERATIONS OFFICER              S           S
Supervision
11/17/1995                2   PR TRANSPORT ECON. (I);        S            S
SR. RAILWAY ENGINEER (1)
03/14/1996                2   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);         S            S
PR. TRANSPORT ECON. (1)
05/10/1996                2   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);         S            S
CONSULTANT (1)
12/02/1996                3   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);         S            S
CONSULTANT (1); PROJECT
OFFICER (1)
05/19/1997                4   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);         S            S
ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
(1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
(1)
12/01/1997                4   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);        S            S
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
SR. RAILWAY SPECIALIST
(1); SR. SYSTEMS ANALYST
(1)
05/12/1998                3   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);         S           S
SR. RAILWAY SPECIALIST;
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
03/23/1999                3   SR.RAILWAY SPECIALIST           S           S
(1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); SR. OPERATIONS
OFFICER (1)
10/14/1999                3   SR. RAILWAY SPECIALIST
(1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); CONSULTANT (1)
06/26/2000                1   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)           S           S
12/07/2000                3   SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIS         S            S
(1); SR. FINANCIAL
ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
(1)
-28-



06/07/2001                  3   SR.TRANSPORT ECONOMIST           S             S
(1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); PROCUREMENT
ANALYST (1)
12/13/2001                  3   SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST          S            s
(1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
(1); PROCUREMENT
ANALYST (1)
06/12/2002                  4   SENIOR TRANSPORT ECON.           S             S
(1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
(I); OPERATIONS OFFICER
(1); RAILWAYS ADVISER (I)
ICR
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              n.a.
Appraisal/Negotiation                   n.a.                   379,000
Supervision                             n.a.                   635,600
ICR
Total                                                         1,014,600
The supervision cost figures include the cost of trust funds
-29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achijevement of Objecftives/0utputs of Comnpoments
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
L Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Physical                             O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Li Financial                           OH   OSUOM      ON    ONA
O Institutional Development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Social
Li Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
3i Gender                        O H OSUOM ON ONA
Oi Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Li Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Oi Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N   0 NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS *S OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       OLU   OHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
D Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
OI Government implementation performance            O HS O S     O  U   0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O u   O HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U   O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank, "Bulgaria Railway Rehabilitation Project. Staff Appraisal Report", May 19, 1995
EBRD, "Bulgarian State Railways. Expanded Monitoring Report", September 6, 2001.
SRIC, State Railway Infrastructure Company, "BDZ's Railway Rehabilitation Project. Final
Implementation Report", November 28, 2002.
PADECO, "Bulgaria State Railways. Rationalization of Rail Network and Operations,
Establishment of PSO Contracts, and Improvement in Marketing", Draft Final Report, March
2002.
SYSTRA, "Technical Assistance to the Bulgarian Railway Rehabilitation Project", Draft Final
Report, April 2000
- 32-



Additional Annex 8. Restructuring Action Plan, Overall Assessment
No.      Objectives/Issues        Actions     Responsibilities   Timetable             Achievement
1.             2.                  3.              4.               5.                     6.
A. Institutional                                                             Achieved
Main Obiective: The creatio
of an institutional framework
within which BDZ can pursue
its  commercial   objectiv
alongside its responsibilitie
under   a   public  servia
obligation.
-Create and operate a business Enact the   Director general of  First reading  Achieved
oriented BDZ making clear its Railway Law  BDZ, president of  approved.
role and relationship with              GC, MOT, MOF,     Final approval  The first Railway Law was approved
GOB. A new railway law to be            Parliament        expected May   n June 1995. Consequently, BDZ
adopted covering duties,                                  1995.          was reorganized. The regional
authorities, responsibilities of                                         organization was cancelled and
BDZ and private sector role.                                             business centers for freight and
passengers and separate financial
account for infrastructure were
established.
A second Railway law was approved
n 2000, to establish two separate
enterprises, for infrastructure and
transport.
Accordingly, BDZ is now split into
two companies. The economic link
between the two companies is the
Track Access Charge, that is the
price BDZ Transport pays to BDZ
nfrastructure for the use of the
network.
2. Identify and agree with GOB  Prepare, adopt BDZ,MOT and MOF Draft prepared. Substantially Achieved
on the future financial regime and implement              Enactment of the
of BDZ including: contents  the Contract                  Contract Plan by The 1996-1998 Contract Plan was
and requirements of PSO,   lan.                           end of June 1995 igned in February 1996.
infrastructure support, control                                          In 1998 an analysis of BDZ cost
of investments, debt                                                     structure, contents and requirements
restructuring, tariff authority                                          of PSO was produced with the
and BDZ performance.                                                     technical assistance of a consultant,
fanced through the World Bank
Loan. New statutes of the Bulgaria
State Railway were approved in
1996. The study led to the new 1999
-2003 Contract Plan. A transparent
and robust algorithm has yet to be
established both for PSO and TAC.
Passengers tariffs are still under state
. _________  _  authority.
-33-



3. Phase out military engineering Introducing  COM, MOD, MOT  Introduction of Achieved
monopoly of track overhaul. competitive  and BDZ        competitive
tendering                      tendering for  An international bid was held
track overhaul in ccording to the procedures and
1995.         requirements of the EU. It was
awarded and the contract was signed
with a Czech company.
4. Strengthen railway safety  Decide on  MOT and BDZ       Deputy DG      Achieved
inspectorate.            responsibilities,              responsible for
appoint and                    Safety appointed The rulebooks were revised. The staff
monitor.                       in March 1995.  as been motivated with a proper
ncentive system. Investigations and
analysis of security issues, mainly on
evel crossing and stations safety
equipment are now routine.
B. Organization and                                                       Achieved
Management
Main Obiectives: To create
and operate a business
onented structure, with
effective relationships with
goverrment and customers
and a management style
encouraging responsibility,
initiative and decisions at the
lowest effective levels and
producing business and relate
investrnent plans giving
satisfactory financial results.
1. Implementation Restructuring Consider, adopt GC, DG, DDGs and New      ubstantially Achieved
Proposals                appoint,     DMs.              Organization   , b, c, d, g, h. The new organization
a-Decide on an         develop and                    Structure already was adopted. Moreover, now BDZ is
organization structure alon implement.                adopted and   composed of two companies, one in
business lines with                                   implementation charge for infrastructure, the other in
timetable for                                         started in HQ's charge for transport. Management
implementation                                        and regions.   kills have been developed through
b-Allocate sub-units within                           On-going task. training.
the structure.                                                      e. MIS has not yet been
c-Appoint key staff.                                                accomplished.
d-Develop management                                                 . Economic capacity is weak.
skills.
e-Develop MIS (with all
departments).
f-Provide an economic
analysis capacity.
g-ldentify objectives for
each department.
h-Create "Change
management" team.
2. Prepare the first 1995-98  Prepare, adopt GC, DG, DDG, and Implement   Achieved
operational and financial  and implement. all departments.  agreed targets
targets.                                               through 1998   The financial target were monitored
-34 -



through all the project
implementation. They were partly
_____________ _                               m et.
3. Reshape the network       Prepare,     BDZ, MOT and       Rationalization  Substantially achieved
including changes in the  implement and MOF.             of lines and
status of lines, yards, and  continuously                services began in About 833 km of lines were closed,
stations, in line with the  monitor.                      1994 and will  that is about 15% of the network.
business of BDZ.                                         continue at a  The closure induced a reduction in
faster pace    maintenance costs (or, at least, in
following      maintenance needs). Unfortunately,
approval of    the tracks closed were mainly
Railway Law.   edundant station tracks or other of
Planned       the kind. Consequently, the closure
involvement of did not result in the required
local authorities re-orientation of the services to
in operations on satisfy commercial demand. The
secondary lines. iumber of stations and halts was
reduced from 802 to 564.
4. Develop program for the   Identify     BDZ, railway       Plan for      Achieved
separation and eventual  opportunities, industry, MOT and  workshops and
involvement of the private  develop and  other ministries.  depots by end  BDZ worked for the separation and
sector in ancillary and support implement.                1995 followed by privatization of non-core activities.
activities.                                              implementation Despite a slow start, due to legal and
during 1996-98. administrative problems and to
excess capacity in the worldwide
railway supply industry, in
November 2000 that action was
accomplished. 13 BDZ units were
privatized. 3 units were terminated.
5. Implement external and    Consider and  Finance Department Appoint auditors Achieved
internal audit procedures.  implement  in cooperation with  by mid 1995;
procedures.   all departments.  First audit by
mid 1996 and
annually
thereafter.
6. Pursue improvements in    On-going     Monitoring by DG,  On-going task
Railway safety.          awareness of  DDG and all        (See A.4)
requirements.  departments.
C. Operations                                                               SubstantiallyAchieved
Main Obiective: Identify
those markets in which the
railways have a comparative
advantage. Select and develop
specific freight and passenger
traffic flows to maximize
BDZ's market advantage in
terms of volume, net revenue
and important customers.
Devise and operate railway
services to meet these
requirements with efficiency,
economy and safety.      I
1. Freieht Traffic                                                         Substantially Achieved
-35 -



1. Examine the characteristic Study and  DG, DDG and all  New timetable
of existing BDZ freight flows implement the departments  introduced in  a-Action was taken continuously to
and identify those which can results.  involved.         1994 and now   mprove the management of freight
be developed as trainloads,                              being continually activities. The OSCAR cost
block loads, container services                          efined.       estimation model was implemented
and wagon load.                                                        and BDZ experts were trained.
a. Develop cost structure  Timetable                   Oscar rail    b- On-going.
methodology for each   improvement. BDZ with technical costing model
category of service and flow         assistance.       introduced in
including the appropriate                             February, 1995
market pricing.                                        with Canadian
b. Identify the necessary  nstall costing              Assistance.
reciprocal action plan by  model.    Marketing and
customers associated with            Operation         On-going.
each traffic flow to achieve         Department.
mutual benefits and
implement the action.
2. Introduce combmed transport Study and  DG, DDGs and all  Progressively   ubstantially Achieved
service.                 negotiate with  departments    introduce and
customers,   involved.         operate services. A few contracts were signed.
identify private
sector interest
and willingness
to invest.
3. Further improve the train  Introduce more Operation,     On-going task.  ubstantially Achieved
plans (timetable to maximize productive  Marketing, Traction           On going task. The measures taken
fleet efficiency/productivity.  working  and Rolling Stock             are:
diagram for   Departments.                     . Rationalization of the train
traction, rolling                              chedule 3. Optimization of station
stock and crew.                                hunts
_____________________  ___________  ___________ _  4. Changes  of station  status.
4. a. Assess effects of changing Continuously  DG, DDGs and all  On-going task. Partially Achieved
status of marshalling yards,  review and  related departments.
stations, terminals, branch  adopt actions.                            The effects of the actions were
lines, route infrastructure                                             ontinuously assessed.
facilities and determine future                                        Train-km have remained constant
shape of the network to meet                                           (11.8 million in 1993, 11.9 million
commercial and operational                                              lanned in 2002.)
objectives.
On the whole, the staff was reduced
b. Effect resulting                                                    by about 20,000. The Freight
rationalization of staff                                               operations employee are now less
numbers, infrastructure, yards,                                        than 12,000.
Idepots, stations.
5. Passeneer Service                                                        ubstantially Achieved
Analyze the country's    Carry-out     DG, DDGs, research, New timetable  The train-km have been reduced by
passenger market, identifying market   marketing, operation, introduced in  4%, from 33.3 million to 25.0
competition, costs, and prices, esearch,  and commercial  1994 now being  illion.
obtaining details for bus, air including  departments.   refined using rail The tariff policy is still under
and private car travel. In  external needs.              costing model.  Government control, and thus is not
addition, segregate the market                                         related to market requirements.
into two categories:                                                   The Marketing units in BDZ HQ and
- 36 -



a. intercity - financially                                           in Passenger units are continuously
self-supporting.                                                      monitoring all the competitive bus
b. Suburban and regional                                              lines and analyzing
under Public Service                                                  frequencies and prices.
Obligation Contracts.
rhe concept of PSO was introduced,
but a transparent and accepted
evaluation of the method to be
applied and of the part of service to
be compensated under PSO have yet
to be developed.
6. Examine present BDZ       Carry-out    DG, DDGs and       On-going      Substantially Achieved
passenger business including research and  related departments. analysis reflected
train loading, flows at all  continue to                 annually in new On-going task.
stations, service pattern,  implement                    timetables.
frequencies and quality and  on-going
identify resources needed to  improvements.
improve quality of service.
D. Marketing                                                                Substantially Achieved
Main Obiectives: Identify the
opportunities open to BDZ
and achieve fullest market
shares through plans for each
segment, major flow and
important   customers  by
maximizing          mutual
advantages.
1. Establish marketing structure, Review staffing DG, DDGs and other Freight and  Achieved
including its objectives,  needs,      responsible        passenger
procedures, methodologies,  implement  departments.       marketing     Freight and passenger marketing
posts; appoint and train staff. staffing plan            structure      structure established at HQ and
and training                    established at  marketing function already set in the
program.                        HQ and now     Passenger Service Units. The
being          marketing module was a prionty
implemented in item of the World Bank supported
the regions    training component.
(passenger
already
established).
2. Develop Business Plans for  Prepare and  DG, DDGs and other On-going task. Achieved
each market segment,     implement     responsible
ommodity type and passenger plans.    departments.                     Business Plan for Freight and
group, key freight customers                                            Passenger Transport were prepared
and passenger markets and                                               but only with short time horizon.
maintain constructive
relationships with major
customers..
3. Prepare and administer tariff Continuous  MOT, DG, DDGs   On-going task.  Substantially Achieved
systems and pricing policies  actions.  and all related                 A new Freight tariff table, with
on the basis of cost recovery,         departments.                      rices for block trains, was
- 37 -



and sound business                                                    introduced.
considerations.                                                       The passenger tariff is still under the
Government's control.
E. Infrastructure                                                         Substantially Achieved
Main Obiective: Maintain
and develop track structure,
signaling and electric traction
systems and maintenance
facilities to meet capacity,
quality and reliability
standards.
1. (a)   Civil Engineering:                                              Substantially Achieved
At the end of 2002, about 350 km of
Prepare 1995-98 Operational Study,    MOT, DG and Track Implement     renewed track will be in operation.
Plan for the Track       procurement,  Department.      agreed plan   The shortfall is then expected to be
aintenance improvement  and                           beginning 1995. only 81 Km or about 20% of the
including track machinery and implementation                          original track renewal program,
ools, introduction of new                              Plan updated   while all the materials purchased
echnology, high quality rails,                         annually.      with the loan have already been
fastening and a new                                                   provided.
pre-stressed concrete sleeper.                                        The project financed by IBRD for the
upply of 4 tamping machines, 4
ballast planning machines, 2 turnout
twnping machines, 4 machines for
ballast bed consolidation, I heavy
grinding machine was completed.
The project financed by EBRD for
e supply of 9 ballast cleaning,
tamping and track renewal machines,
plus 15 catenary inspection vehicles
was completed. As a result,
maintenance capability increased
drastically.
2.  (b) Sirnaling and                                                      Achieved
Telecommunications
Prepare 1995-98 Operational Study, obtain  DG, DDGs,    Implementation Financed under EBRD Loan.
Plan, including the      equipment and  nstallation     upgrading     There were four projects:
development of signaling  implementation. Department, together program under  axle counters,
regulations (based on UIC             with Operation,   project beginning -supply and implementation of
standards), extending safety          Marketing, Traction July 1995.  PABX,
system, replacement of                and Rolling Stock,               train dispatcher radio,
out-dated signaling system,            inance and       Plan updated   automatic train protection system.
finishing uncompleted but               ccounting       annually based
essential projects and                Departments.      on technical
development of                                          assistance
communication system on the                             provided by
basis of priorities and                                 PHARE.
financial possibilities.
3.  Introduce a Management   Study, prepare GC, DG, DDGs,    Operational Plan Partially Achieved
Information System (MIS)  an operational  DM and Installation finalized by
consisting of:           plan, supply  in cooperation with  mid-1995.  The MIS implementation was not
- 38 -



a. Freight Information  installation and all departments.  mplementation fulfilled. In fact, only the Data
System (FIS) (a sizeable  make system                 under the project Network Upgrade component was
portion of freight     operational.                   Plan updated  completed satisfactorily and could be
operations),                                          annually      an effective support to the next stage
b. Passenger Information                                             f assessment of the services to
System (PIS) (passenger                               Operational Plan eliably estimate the right amount of
ticketing and reservation),                           to be finalized  PSO.
c. Financial Management                               late 1995 upon
System (FMS)                                          completion of
(administration of financial                          PHARE financed
resources and accounting of                           financial study.
costs and revenues).                                  Implementation
under the project.
4. (c) Overhead Contact Lines                                            Achieved
(OCL)
Prepare 1996-98 Operational Study work and DG, DDGs,    Operational Plan Financed under EBRD Loan.
Plan includine:          implementation Installation    by the end of  A partial renewal of the catenary has
(a) assessment of                   Department with   1995 and       een accomplished.
rehabilitation needs and             raction, Rolling  implementation
installation of material and        Stock, Operation and thereafter.
equipment;                          Marketing
(b) develop technical               Departments       Plan updated
competence and ensure                                 annually
infrastructure management.
5. (d)  Workshops/Plants                                                 Achieved
Separate and develop
workshops, manufacturing  Study and   MOT, GC, DG,      Study completed The Track Maintenance Unit was
plants for all infrastructure  identify  DDGs and related  in 1994,    rivatized. The Svishtov concrete
facilities to facilitate private  opportunity.  departments  mplementation  leepers plant and Coach repair plant
sector involvement                                      thereafter    Drianovo are now limited liability
companies.
F.   Traction and Rolling Stock                                            Achieved
Main Obiective:   Provide
maintain and develop/scra
locomotives, wagons, coaches,
multiple    units     an
maintenance facilities neede
to meet the capacity, qualit
land reliability
1. Establish and adopt 1996-98  Study work and DG, Traction and  Implement  Substantially achieved
Operational Plans for Traction implementation Rolling Stock  outline plan
and Rolling Stock Fleet, to  of the adopted  departments with  started March  ) 150 locomotives have been taken
ensure BDZ's commercial  measures.    other related     1995.          ut of operation and other 36 have
development by undertaking            departments.                     een scrapped. More than 10
the following measures:                                 Plan updated  thousand wagons have been taken
a) reduction of the fleet in                           annually.     out of operation and more than 6
accordance with traffic                                               undred have been scrapped.
demand.                                                              b) Measures for distributing major
b) Improving the efficiency                                          repairs amongst the loco depots of
of motive power and rolling                                          specific types of locomotives were
stock utilization so as to                                           implemented. This aims to improve
achieve the targets agreed in                                        quality of repairs and lower cost for
- 39 -



the attachment hereto. Such                                           stock maintenance. Repair quality
measures shall include the                                           improvement allows to increase
following:                                                            operation time and decrease cost of
-Improvement of                                                      maintenance. A new scheme for loco
locomotive activities                                                wheel processing has been adopted.
planning and personnel                                               Regulations also have been changed
rostering, systematic                                                to increase wheel mileage. Program
checking the rosters;                                                for heavy repairs of wagon and
-Systematic checking and                                              oaches have been prepared and are
shortening the time                                                  now under implementation.
provided for the preparation                                         The project financed by EBRD for
and end-of-shift duties;                                            the refurbishment of 50 coaches was
-Improvement of                                                      successfully completed.
locomotive control
methods; and
-Improvement of the fleet
maintenance efficiency.
3. Prepare a proposal with  Study and     BDZ with appropriate Proposal by the  Achieved
railway industry regarding the identify  Government      end of 1995.
separation of manufacturing  opportunities.  departments and  Implementation Under EBRD financing.
activities for eventual private        private sector.   thereafter.   A Restructuring Plan was approved
sector involvement.                                                    by BDZ and submitted to EBRD. The
mplementation was carried out with
the assistance of the consultants
under the PHARE financed
Technical Assistance Project. A joint
Venture was established in
November 1997 with the Austrian
ompany VAE. In November 2000
that action was accomplished. 10
BDZ units have been privatized or
erminated, and 2 have been
transformed in Ltd. Companies.
G. Human Resources                                                         Achieved
Main Objective: Provide and
maintain a cadre of highly
motivated and well-trained
staff with skills, capacity
standards and productivity
consistent with the market
_ requirements.
I. Prepare 1995-98 Human    Prepare, review GC, DG, Trade   Outline Plan  Achieved
Resources Development Plan, and implement Unions and all  defined in
including staff reduction  Plan.       departments.      Attachment 1.  There are now about 37,000
through retirement, attrition,                                          mployees.
and other personnel                                      Plan updated
developments (appraisals,                                annually.
promotions, career,
development, discipline and
training).
Identify training needs of  Prepare, review GC, DG, DDGs and Training needs Substantially Achieved
BDZ by preparing 1994-98  and implement. all departments.  identified under
-40 -



Training Program                                         the project.   In 2000, due to the reduced value of
DM in USD terms and the expected
Plan updated   shortage of loan funds, it was agreed
annually.      not to finance the second stage of
training project WLP 50.2
H. Investments                                                              Achieved
Main Obiective: Define those
investments  commensurate
with resources, and based on
their rentability establish a
prionty ranking. Implemen
hose investments which wil
ensure the survival of BDZ
and bring the physical asset
back to a condition which i
safe and reliable and wil
enable  BDZ   to  meet i
commercial objectives.
I. Develop and pursue the    Technical    MOT, GC, DG,       Basic plan is the Achieved
1995-98 Investment Plan of  preparation,  DDG, and related  rehabilitation
high priority investments  acquisition of  departments.   project.      The basic plan is the Project.
based on the cnteria     equipment and                    Plan updated
mentioned above.          material and                    annually.
_implementation
2. Obtain funds from all possible Continuous  MOF, MOT, BDZ.  Annually.    Achieved
sources - 1994-98 Financial action with                                 Funding from the State budget
Plan based on debt service  Government                                  within the Contract plan for
capability.               and donors.                                   infrastructure and rolling stock
ehabilitation.
Funds were approved from EU-Phare
program for financial assistance
amounting to 20.0 million Euros in
support of track renewal program.
Grant funds were provided by
USTDA for delivery of elastic plates
for level crossing safety improvement
and for delivery of a new catenary
maintenance vehicle.
I. Finance                                                                 Achieved
Main Obiective: Develop a
sound financial management
Construct, coordinate,  an(
monitor annual budgets and
investment plans consisten
with    the     commercia
objectives of BDZ and the
erformance obligations of the
Public    Service   (PSO)
Develop, in parallel, MIS and
cost management ability to
ensure  effective  busines
-41 -



evaluation  and   financial
esults                                               _        _
1. Prepare  1995-98  Financial Prepare,  Council of Ministers, Implement in  Achieved
recovery plan, incorporating: negotiate and  GC, DG, Financial, line with agreed
(a) the financial impact of the achieve  Economic, and other financial targets The financial plan was annually
implementation of all actions understanding  related departments. (Attachment 1). updated.
on reducing cost;        and support
(b) a plan for tariff increases needed.
in real terms, particularly for                         Plan for 1995
assengers, with an                                     approved, tariff
engagement to significantly                             increase January
increase passenger tariffs in                           1, 1995 of 39%
real terms over the 1995-98                             for passengers
eriod.                                                 and 20% freight,
(c) Expected Government                                 further increases
contribution for:                                        lanned for June
- subsidized fares;                                 and December.
- Public Service
Obligations (PSO), and                              Annually.
- Infrastructures                                   Local debt
(d) Possibilities to restructure                        substantially
the debt                                     restructured.
2. Prepare a plan for the   Study with   GM, Finance       PHARE financed Achieved
reorganization of the    Technical    Department with   study completed At the beginning of 2000, the costing
financing and accounting  Assistance and other related  late 1995.    model OSCAR was successfully
functions of BDZ and the  implement.  departments.       mplementation  mplemented. Under EBRD
introduction of modern                                  under project.  financing, a consultant has provided
financial and accounts                                                training for Finance and Accounting
rocedures.                                                           Strengthening and financial
m anagement under IAS.
J. Environment                                                           Achieved
1. Environment Management   -Define role and DG            October 1995.  Achieved
Capacity Building.       responsibilities
of the                                       Environmental measures are now
environmental                                mandatory for any future project in
specialist in                                the railways.
BDZ's central
administration.                               A project applying environmental
In 1996 and   methods of chemical control on
Provide                        thereafter.   plants along railway lines is
training                       By end 1995.  currently being developed. Training
courses on environmental
-Establish                                   matters were provided.
proper
interdepartment                               Past contamination was discovered ir
al                                            ome of the railway depots and
communication                                 workshop. Part of these issues have
been tackled with the workshop
p rivatization.
2. Setting Environmental    - Carry out an  DG             By end 1995.   Achieved
Priority                 environmental                                A 2000 report on Environment
performance                                    atters was prepared.
-42 -



review.
K. Im lementation of the                                                   Achieved
1995-1998 BDZ Restructuring
Overall Action Plan
1. Form an Inter ministerial  To decide,  Council of Minister PMT established Achieved
Group (IMG) with         appoint and                     October 1994.
representatives of the different monitor
ministries.                                              rechnical     A dedicated working group was
assistance     ppointed.
provided by   Monitoring of BDZ rehabilitation
PHARE         program was also carried out by a
beginning     unit in the MOF.
mid-1995.
L. Implementation and                                                     Achieved
monitorine of the railway
rehabilitation project financed
b vIBRD and EBRD
1. Form a project management To decide,   GC and GM                         chieved
team (PMT)               appoint and
monitor                                       A project implementation unit (PIU)
was established within the PMT. The
Technical assistance was financed by
EU PHARE. The contract was
completed in March 2000.
2. To prepare bidding       Study work and DG, DDGs and     The documents  Achieved
documents for each project  bid processing related departments to be ready by
component and timetable for work.                        mid- 1995.
preparation of documents
and bidding process.     I_I
-43 -



Additional Annex 9. SuppRemental Tables
Table 1. BDZ's overal Restructuring Action Plan for 1998-2002, Operational and financial target
updated May 2002.
Table 2. BDZ's overal Restructuring Action Plan for 1995-1998, Operational and financial target.
Table 3. Traffic Volume (passenger-km and ton-kIn).
Table 4. Unit revenue (passenger-km and ton-km).
Table 5. Staff reductions.
Table 6. Budget support.
Table 7. Summary Financial Statements, 1999- 2002 (amount in Levs million).
Table 8. Procurement - Summary for project items.
Table 9. Information about the work performed by the track maintenance machines.
Table 10. Status of track renewal works by year.
Table 11. List of main studies and technical assistance activities.
Table 12. Programmatic Adjustment loan to Bulgaria (2003) - Policy Matrix for Railway Sector
- 44 -



Tahl 1       I        T         
BDZ's Overall Restructuring Action Plan for 1998-2002
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL TARGETS (update May 2002)
TARGETS                          UNIT       1      -            W
INFRASTRUCTURE        I
1|NETWORK                                   km             30        4,2901      428         4,288      4,288
_______                                                _100 0       99 8        99 7        997        997
Change of status
t 1 lILow Density Lines           km            1,250        741        741         437
1 2 Stations & halts            number           802         590        564         564         564
2 STAFF      I
Year end employees (total)             Empl ( 000)       64.3       46 4        39 0        37 3        33 7
(1993 as 100)
Employees i
2 1 Transport, of which        Empl ( 000)       547        412         38 4        37 3       33 7
22 Operational                 Empl 000)         52 0       40 5        38 4        373        33 7
3 TRAFFIC
31 Passenger - Km               bill pkm          58         38          35          30         31
Commuter                     bill pkm          1 1        0 8         0 7        071         0 7
Regional l Int'l             bill pkm         47          30          28         23          24
32 Freight- NTKM                bill pkm          77         53          5'          49'        49
33 3Traffic Unit (TU)         pkm+ntkm)bil       135         9 1         90          79         80
4 TRAIN -KMS Total)                         mill           451        42 4        361         36 7       36 9
41|jPassenger                     mill           33 3       30 1        25 1        25 0       250
4 2|Freight                       mill           11 8       123         110         117         11 9
5 TRACTION AND ROLLING STOCK FLEET
i5 1Electric Locomotives          pcs       343(196)'   280(193)'   252(165)'  240(165)'   238(160)'
5 2 Diesel Locos (main lines)     pcs        220(90)'    150(93)     131(81)'   124(81)'    120(70)'
53 Shunters                       pcs       336(146)'   256(120)'   191(104)-  181(104)-  177(104)-
54 Passenger Fleet                pcs.          1,992      1,704 1717(1592)' 1541(1459)' 1500(1200)'
________  5 5 Wagons                      pcs          37,125     25,061 4348(14237t 3399(14195)' 1100(14195)'
6 UTILIZATION OF TRACTION
61 Average daily performance     km/day                                 ___
of available engine                    _______
a Passenger Traffic
Electric Locomotives         km/day           730         622        578         590         600
Diesel Locomotives           km/day           352         342        313         322         300
b Freight Traffic
Electric Locomotives         km/day           389         449        459         474         480
Diesel Locomotives           km/day           285         283        294         287         280
6 2 Availability of
Electric Locomotives           %              84 1         59         62          65          67
Diesel Locomotives             %             782           37         41          45          47
7 UTILIZATION OF ROLLING STOCK
Passenger - km per seat               000 pkm/sea        42 0        35 0       34 0        35 0         34
Net ton km per wagon                  000 ntkm/wac       220         210         225         345        345
Turn-around lime of wagons                days            78          6 8        6 1         6 3         6 5
8 OPERATING PERFORMANCE MEASURES
-)Staff Productivity - Total  TU/Empi 000      210         196         231         212        237
- Productivity Index             %              100         93         110         101        113
- Staff Productivity - operational TU/Empl 000  260        225         235         212        237
9 FINANCIAL TARGETS                                                                                _
9 lWorking Ratio *-                               89         105          97         106        106
9 2 Debt Service Ratio ..                        01           06         1 t         05         1 1t
1AAl~f                                                            _.
*  Locomotive figures in ()represent the operational fleet. The difference in the total fleet is locomotives for scrap and in isolation
-  Locomotive availability decrease due to shortage of the spare parts
Calculation of the working ratio and the debt service ratio assumes the PSO contract of Leva 60 M for 1999, 2000, and 2001
-45-



Table 2
BDZ's Overall Restructuring Action Plan for 1995-98
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL TARGETS
-46 -



ACTUAL                          PLANNED
TARGETS                       UNIT          1993       1994       1995      1996       1997       199   r
iNFRASTRUCTURE
I0         NETWORK                             km             4,300      4,146      3.896     3.644      3.644      3.644
Change of status                     %               100      96 5        90 6      84 7       84 7      847
1 1 Low Density Lines               km             1.250     1,096        856       604        604        604
1 2 Stations & halts              number            802        731        604       629        579        527
20         STAFF
Year end employees (total)       Empl ( 000)        64 3      56 3        55 6      53 0       50 3      47 6
1993 as 1100                                         00       908         86 5      82 4       78 2      740
Employees in
2 1 Transport, of which          Empi ( 000)        54 7      50 3        47 9      45 8       43 5      41 2
2 2 Operational                  Empl (000)         520       48 0        458       438        416       39 6
0         TRAFFIC
3 1 Passenger -Km                 bill pkm           5 8       51          5 0       5 0        50         5 0
-   Commuter                                       I    I   1 0         0 9       0 9       0 9        0 9
-   Regional & lnt'l                              47        41          4 1       41        41         41
3 2 Freight - NTKM                bill ntkm          77        7 8         7 7       7 7        77         77
3 3 Traffic Unit (TU)          (pkm+mtkm) bill      13 5       112 9      12 7      12 7       12 7       12 7
4 0        TRAIN - KMS    Total                mill            472        471        433       429        428        427
4 1 Passanger                                       333        320        31 8      31 5       315        315
4 2Freight                                          11 8       116        115       114        113        112
0 o        TRACTION AND ROLLING
STOCK FLEET
5 1 Electric Locomolives            pCs        343(196)-   325(180)   310(180)  292(180)   272(180)   252(180)
5 2 Disel Loco (maln lines)                     220(90)     192(81)    182(81)   175(80)    160(71)    145(71
5 3 Shunters                                   336(146)    325(142)   300(140)  261(135)   232(130)   203(130)
5 4 Passenger Fleet                                1.992      1,721      1,695     1.695      1.695      1,449
5 5 Wagons                                        371251    31.560      25,50     23,500     23.500    21.500
ACTUAL                          PLANNED
TARGETS                        UNIT         1993       1994       1995      1996       1997       1998
0         UTILIZATION OF TRACTION
6 1 Average Daily
Performance of available
engine                         km/day
a Pessenner Traffic
Electric Locomotives                           730       738        743        745       747        750
Diesel Locomotives                             352       348        365        370       375        380
b FreIght Traffi
Electric Locomotives                           389       372        390        400       420        450
Diesel Locomotives             .               285       234        280        280       280        280
6 2 Availability of
Electric Locomotives             %               84 1    62 0*        66 0       70 0       74 0      78 0
Diesel Locomotives               X               782     62 0          65 0      68 0       71 0      740
0         UTILIZATION OF ROLLING
STOCK
Passenger - km per seat         OOOpkm/seat         42 0       42 0       43 0      46 0       47 0       50 0
Net ton km per wagon            OOOntkm/wag          220       246        300        330       330        360
Turn-around time of wagons         days              7 8        6 8        6 5       6 0        5 5        5 0
of which in treins                                   8 63       9 2       11 0      12 0       14 0       160
B 0        OPERATING PERFORMANCE
iUEASURES
-  Staff Productivity - Total   TU/Empi 000          210       221        228        240       253        267
-  Productivity Index                &               100       105         109       114       120        127
-  Staff Prod - operational     TU/Empl 000          260       270        277        290       305        320
0         FINANCIAL TARGETS'
9 1 Working Ratio                    %                89       102         115       110       105        100
9 2 Debt Service Ratlo                              019        0 47       0 40      0 75       085        10
Locomotives figures in () reprosent the operational fleet Annual difference in the total fleet is scrapping
program
Locomotive availability decrease due to shortage of the spare parts
-47 -



Table 3
TRAFFIC VOLUME (PASSENGER-KM AND TON-KM)
2-D_   %           % __20             X           %d
1995 d-W  1996 Sd-W  1997 drw2  1998 dw   m  F   299 dW  ecnw  PM 2am   201  om be   AP5 ftn2002 d bs0  1995I f2l
psga.        4.7  99/o 5.] 16%   5  -20%   4. -19%  a3   -%    3          -14%   3     -536  29    Oa     19%   29      I%
Fgfht        8 6 -12%  7 6  1%  7. -l4,/o  6  -15%       : s %      5.   -11%   4     -0%   45    14     8%    49      435
TOW Trc Url; 13.3 -5%  12 67_    13. -19%l 10. -16%  9.1 -1.2%  9    9     -12X6  7.'  -%     74   22     5%    78      41%
Table 4
UNIT REVENUE (PASSENGER-KM AND TON-KM)
%                  2002
2001     2001     dwne        2002    4 months
1994    1995    1998    1997    1998    1999     2000    w        adual    firm 2001  foecast    acual
(LevaUS$)             55      68      179    1,700   1,750   1.84     2.11     2.11     2.18                2.2           22
Pasenger (per pnm)
Leva                 0.27    041      0.73   723    14.19    0.017   0.018  0.023      0.020a    3%        00211      00204
US$                 0.005   0.008    0.004  0.004   0008     0.009   0008   0.011       0.009    2%         0 010      0009
Frigh (per tkm)
Leva                 083     124      2.53  24.65   3281     0037    0.040  0044        0044     4%         0.046      0045
US$                 0.015   0018     0.014  0015    0019     0.020   0.019   0.021      0020     4%         0.021      0021
-48 -



Table 5
STAFF REDUCTIONS
_-      1   -  1   -f                           [   1                            Al -d-1999    Alond-2000   Aoend- 2001  Al end- 2002
1995    1996 |1997     1998    1999    2000    2000    2001    2001    2002        chrange     % change     % crango       crangoe
I  _    ii                       FRFPI   a ctual  FRPF 11  atual   Plan  from end-1995  frommend-1995 from end-1995 fromrend-1995
alt January 1. of which  58,300  57.007  56.648  53,220  47.120  46,192  42.011  39,300  37.255  37,274
BDZ rAD                                                                                      25,322
NC RI                                                                                        11,952
- Jafy I jadjustmre1t) 2/
90D R;                                                                                       (5,700)
NC RI                                                                                         5.700
redaduon durng yr, of
which                   1,293    359    3,429   6,100  5,109   7.892   4.756   2.297     (19)   3,600
BDZ EAD                                                                                       1,900
NC RI                                                                                         1,700
% drmdcton. ofwhich       2S      1%      9%     11%     11%     17%     11%      6%    .01%      10%
BDZ EAD                                                                                        10%
NC RI                                                                                          10%
on Deember 31          57.007  56.648  53,220  47.120  42,011  38,300  37.255  32.013  37,274  33,674          -26%         -35% |        351         .41%
BDZ SAD                                                                                      17.722
NC RI                                                                                        15,952
Labor   ductylly Y   I    2i2     22:     241     2171   299    _        227 _           212      209              I             I 
I/ FRP targets are based on the annual average
2/ On July 1, about 5,700 workers associated with traffic management will be transferred from BDZ EAD to NC RI
3/ Labor productivity is measured as thousand traffic units (pkm + tkm) per staff
Total staff numbers include seasonal workers 2001 (300). 2002 (EAD about 300 RI: about 120)
-49 -



Table 6
BUDGET SUPPORT
1997    1998    1999  1999  2000  2000  2001   2001   2002
actual  actual  FRP   actual FRP  actual FRP   actual forecast
Exchangerate(LevaperUS$)              1,700   1,750   1.8  1.838  1.8   2.11   1.8  2.18    22
Passenger PSO contract
Million leva                                         60    61    40    60     30    60       70
US$ million                          -        -      33    33    22    28     17    27      32
Regional Investment Program
(for asset overhauls)
Million leva                      28,500   32,000    18    18    18    17     18    11       18
US$ million                           17      18     10    10    10     8     10     5       8
Regional Investment Program
(for acquisition of fixed assets)
Million leva                       6,000    7,000    20    20    43    32    49     27       12
US$ million                            4       4     11    11    24    15     27    12       5
Roads Funds
(from regional and national inv programs)
Million leva                                          5     8     5     8     5      5        8
US$ million                                           3     4     3     4      3     2       4
National Investment Program
Million leva                                         11     7    37    12     44    17        9
US$ million                                   -       6     4    21     6     24     8       4
Rolling Stock maintenance
Million leva                               21,000
US$ million                          -        12
Exemption of VAT/customs duties
Million lava                      32,000   29,000    33    33    19    19      7   -          0
US$ million                           19      17     18    18    11     9      4   -        -
Total Support
Million leva                      66,500   89,000   147   147   162   148    153   120     117
US$ million                           39      51     85    80    90    70     85    55      53
GDP
Billion leva                      17,055   21,577  22.5  22.8   23.5  25.5  25.2  29.6     330
US$ billion                         10.0     12.3  12.5  12.4   13.1  12.1  14 0   13 6    150
State support as % of GDP              0.4%    0.4%   0.7%  0.6%  0.7%  0.6%   0.6%  0.4%    0.4%
Notes:
(i) FRP - Three-Year Financial Recovery Pian (1999-2001).
(ii) Budget subsidies include 20% VAT.
(iii) Total subsidies include both explicit and implicit subsidies
(iv) The Regional Investment Program for 2002 includes Leva 18 million for track renewal program financed by the Project.
(v) GDP growth in 2002 based on the World Bank forecasts.
-50-



ah ' Z)I I
lij,''i~   fi55l 11 i  t13  1l3{ t|cg
I I H ' -;t  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __t_ _
I }o |    i   3  8  08 Y   So o~ a  iI  l 
5I    . iy- 
j                 os
IS   }          o}~o                By~ o[ ~~ F
aogt                               o a  a
dl,, I  3I   si  a  c a            0 t  3
O                  o.MS  S  a 3ja  0 s
| ~ ~~ i  .         }~        1 s  _14A 
. .  .   a .   9  t 3
8        a oa  o       89 3
I   is 4  :3  tt  tt ~ ~ I___
o > i i~~ S                    i S;j3os>>^  3 1~SI 
s ^ r o-  o _ S-  -  *  o 9j: 3 .  o  ~  J1o1 



Table 8a
PROCUREMENT SUMMARY (for Project items, financed by IBRD)
Contract                                                         Publi-      Bid       BanKes     Contract         Note
CaL.                    Project Item                  Code       shing     Opening    Approvat    Award
I     Procurement of Track Renewal Materials
1.1   Rafts type S49                                WLPIO      2/2011995  4/17/1996  6/11/1996   8/221996  Contract completed
1 2   Raits type UIC60                              WLP11      3/19/1996   5/7/1996  912511996   10/18Y1996 Contract completed
1.3   Elastc fastenings                             WLP12      1/30/1996   4/3/1996   7/811996   8/6/1996  Contract completed
1 4.1 Flange rail pads                              WLP13.1    1/17/1 997  3120/11997   NA       614/1997  Contract completed
1 4 2 Spiral rings for joints                       WLP13 2    1/17/1997  3120/1997     NA       5120/1997  Canceged
1 5   Tensile steel for concrete sleepers           WLP14      12V23/1997  2/3/1998  3127/1998   418/1998  Contract completed
1 6   Rail lubncators                               WLP15         NA      3/1211998  8/2611998   1111711998 Contractomrpleted
1 7   Termite wedicng consumables                   WLP16      1/17/1997   3/71997      NA       6/18/1997  Contract completed
2     Trra Maintenance Machinery
2 1.1 Heavy machines for track maintenance - tamping  WLP201   V12/1996   4/11/1996   8/21996     15.08.96  Contract completed
machine. ballast planning machine, tumout tamping                                           22.08 96
machine                      _                              _   ___
21 2 Heavy machines for track maintenance - for baUast  WLP20.2  71996     9/5/1996  12/19/1996  112911997  Contract completed
ed onsoIidation
2.1.3 Heavy mactines for track maintenance - heavy  WLP20 3    7/15/1996   9/511996  V/11/1997    3/5/1997  Contract completed
gnnding machine
2.2   Ught machines and tools for track maintenance  WU21      7/27/1998  12/11998               10/15/1999 Contract completed
23    System STREIT                                 WLP22         NA         NA         NA       11/19/1997 Contract completed
3     Rail Welding Plant                            WLP23      10/7/1998  12/8/1998              5128/1999  Contract completed
4     Management Information Systoma (MIS)
4 11 Passenger Informnation System (PIS)           WLP40.1    11/18/1996 '10/1161997  4/7/998   10/1511998 Contract completed
41.2 Freight Operation System (FOS), Financial      WLP40 2    11118/1996 10/16/1997  4/7/1998   1/26/1999  Contract completed
Management System (FMS)
4.2   Dab network upgrading (DNU)                   WLP41      11/16/1999  1/18/2000  9/14/2000  11/9/2000  Contract completed
5     TraInIng Program
5.1   Technical Assistbnce                          WLP5D-TA   3120/1996  5110/1996  6126/1996   912iY1996  Contract completed
5 2   Courses on Management, Marketng and Finance      I stags NA         2V13/1998                6/10/1998 Contract completed
5 3   Technial Courses                                 11 stage                                             Cancelled
5.4   Commercuaeisation of Raitways Workshop        WLPSO-CR                                       108181998 Contract completed
5.5   Technical Assistance - Contract Plan BDZ-Govemmen WLP5O-CS                                    8/4/1998 Contract completed
-52-



Table 8b
Summary (for Project Items, financed by EBRD
Contract                             Publi-     Tender      Bankas  I Contract          Note
CaL                   Protect Item                   Code       shmg      Opening     Approval    Award
A    Improvement of Infrastructure
Al Other Project Items
1. Wagons for ballast pollution outputs         ELP180      9/23i1996  1112711996  411811997   5/28/1997  Contract completed
A2   Cofinanced Project Items
1    Catenary inspection and maintenance vehicles  ELP17       1002l1996  2128/1997   6/18/1997  6/20/1997  Contract completed
2 Equipment and heavy machines for track renewal  ELP18     314/1994   5/23/1997   10/24/1997  11/5/1997 Contract completed
3 Equipment and heavy machines for track renewal  ELP19 1   22 07 96 | 21 10 96     18.04 97   28 05 97  Contract completed
ELP19 2/1   22 07.96 J 19 12 96     06.05 97   03 07.97  Contract completed
_ELP19 2/2   22 07 96 | 1912.96      06.05 97   20 07 97  Contract completed
B    Group B
B.a Improvement of traction and rolling stock malntenance
1. Depot undeerfloor wheel lathes (Locomotive Dept)  ELP13  2/27/1997  5114/1997  11/1911997  12/10/1997 Contract completed
2. Depot wheel lathes (Locomotive Department)   ELP14       212711997   517/1997   10124/1997  12/10/1997 Contract completed
3 Wheel lathes (Rolling Stock Department)       ELP15                                                    Cancelled
4 Locomotve spare parts                         ELP52 - 9   1120/1997  5/21/1997   91311997    9/19/1997  Contracts completed
5 Equipment for locomobve maintenance           ELP54                                                    Cancelled
6. Equipment for rolling stock maintenance      ELP55                                                    Cancelled
B.b Equipment for Environmental Rehabilitation
1 Suppty of equipment for environmental rehabilitation  ELP540                                           To be Funded by
I                     I           I           I           PHARE
C    Passenger Coach Rehabilitation
1. Refurbishment of 50 main line passenger coaches  ELP16  12/15/1995| 070396      1308996     12/411996 IContract completed
I          l          | 03 07 96    14 11 96
D    Technical Cooperation and Trainig
1 Driver training simulator                    |ELP20     |Cancelled
2 Technical assistance with the Rulebook revision  JELP21                                               ICancelled
-53 -



Table 9
INFORMATION ABOUT THE WORK PERFORMED BY THE TRACK MAINTENANCE MACHINES
Nm id.ote                 nm    Oi1MB-31.12%  1OtO1-311299  OID.O1.-31 12W0  01.01 Di-31 1201  0t1.01n0-311Zt02
/br9J*  acm  Tunol   T| Turnos TT                Tumsw
c_________________ __   (d&  .) Tramn) Qp-) TmcQkn) O-) TMQqn) (;) T|*" OP) TcdkQn)
1 T LtTuwtTaNt b B31 LE  VtPaP12  3D071997  8t  3S3  gm  t  I  711  2ZE  t  2
2 TrurrTB1TaTNxhPB31 LE VWP2.112 14M1997 ___  484  7 a 451 a1 46          7
2                  WPDGS  wa202 1i&1iw7       tS       1Q       113      Qt
_  a   mo   SSP     U 1 1  11 l3a7  4_               2B5 31   tm67:
1Tta  *t  m f1t eCB32  V&kP 2iI 1  11 1SET  5189  M    47       35 1  74   4 a
. fl%tdAwDGS       \MP2D2  11ff97  _  3753 _  3        QMZ    | ms        ao
: B___d _____m _ _S_ _  WP311 1  11SElt9  453  477     2623     3l Ml
_ TnuAzimI3      r_____
1 Tm1ftmtgm eC B832  VWIP31.1 17SMItS 3___=   4171                        1 I=3Z
2 DFwmatC"DGS      MP=2 173 _                 MA__ 2__MI es          =
3BaShzt"m  SSP    tl\tP 201.1  MUMlB  23t3    3QS 2_l11         2ES       953
i                 YicwWP2t1 1  tfl7It2AP  __1_7_  374S  2BB    25&t -   25at
_2 _t D_GSt        WLPa2  17D&19_8  39PA     241       1377     139o
3 tftnSSfSP       VtP21.1  MUMl      4;EO _a  40U37BS           33714
I.Md e trglxbdrbAAB16  0Pa3 O1at Mi   93R      4a7l     5D242A          |  O
- 54 -



Table 10
STATUS OF TRACK RENEWAL WORKS BY YEAR
Year     Initial Plan 7 | Plan 05198 with PHARE  Plan 03.'9 w9th PHARE  Plan I0 '99 with PHARE  Plan 06 00 wlth PHARE
Ending  Annual Cumulative  Annual  Cumulative  Annual  Cumulative  Annual  I CumulatUev
l BDZ P~~~~~~~~WITM                                      BDZ BZPAI PHARE i HR 
March 1998    S |      S  50           sos_  S   5          ____            5    S0
March 1999   11I |   160       41      171   4           54    4                        |
March 2000   1St     311  98   20      290  114  42      210  114           168  112    1     16
March 2001   104     41   125   3      41   861  2       312  93 665        3    6    27 2
March 2002  =                               95           4`1  9t           413   74   2' 2    32
December 2002                      _    7    20   20      4
Year     lntlUal Plan  Plan 11.0 Owfth PHARE  Plan 12:01 wihPHARE  Plan 06'02 with PHARE 
Endlng  Annual Cumnulative  Annual |Cumulatve  Annual  Cumulative  Annual  ICumulavo]
8DZ2 pPHAR        BDZ I PHAR        BDZ [ PHAREs 
March 19987   5(      50  501          so5  501           50   501    1   
March 1999   I             4 160  4          41           54    4|          54
March 2000   15C     310  112r   1~             166           HZ_ |"        166
March 2001-   0 1    414  631 31       232      6        1 0 241  65 I0     2411
March2002                 741  531    359    41   3      304   20   231    2841
Decemboer2002  =581                    417   20   01     3     31   181     333
AfterDec 2002                                70          414   81           414
Table 1 1
LIST OF MAIN STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES FROM 1995 to 2001
1.     Master Plan Study for Long Temn Management of Bulgarian Railways - Financed by Japan Intemational
Cooperabon Agency-contractors: Japan Railway Service, Daiwa Institute of Research, Yachiyo
Engineering Co.-1998.
2.  Balkan Transportabon Study-Sir Alexander Gibb-1 997
3.  Feasibility Study on the development of Railway and Combined Transport on Corridor IV-Phare
Multi-Country Transport Program, ITALFFER-NETHCONSULT, 1998.
4.   Preparation of Traffic Forecasts and Investment programs for the years 2000 and 2010 for the
development of the Bulgarian Transport System, in consideration of the Transiton to a free Market
____ tEconomy-Phare Project, BONIFICA-T.E.C.N.I.C. DOXIADIS, 1997.
5.  SYSTRA-Technical Assistance for restructuring of BDZ-1997-2000-PHARE.
6.   Financial Recovery Plan - KPMG-1997-PHARE.
7.  Technical Assistance for restructuring of financial accounting system of BDZ-KPMG-1995-PHARE.
8.  IRailways Environmental Performance Improvement Project (REPIP) Bulgaria-March 1998-PHARE.
9.  BDZ Finance and accounts strengthening-PricewaterhouseCoopers-2000-EBRD/PHARE.
10. Management training for BDZ-Halcrow Trademark-IBRD
11. First Stage Training Program for BDZ staff-IBRD (Swederail AB).
12. Sofia Intermodal Terminal Feasibility Study-Sea LAND Services Aug.1996-Aug.1999 - USTDA
13. Trans port technical advisory services-Bechtel Intemational (USA) Jan.1997-Feb.1999 - USTDA
14. |BDZ Commercialization Assistance-Don Breazeale & Associates Feb.1999-Aug.1999 - USTDA
| 15. |Diesel Locomotive Rehabilitation Feasibilitiy Study-TERA Inc. Sept.1999-2001- USTDA
- 55 -



Table 12
Programmatic Adjustment Loan to Bulgaria (2003) - Policy Matrix for the Railway Sector
Goals                     PAL-1                    Mid-2003                  Mid-2004               Desired Outcomes
Improving efficency of the  Creation of new railway  Adoption by the railway   Satisfactory implementation of By mid-2004, reduction of state
railway sector resulting in a  operating company as joint  operabng and infrastnicture  n action plan for the  railway labor force by 20%
decrease in railway subsidies. stock company which has  companies of sound medium  termination or financing of all  compared to level at end-2001,
commercial objectives and  term business plans including  loss-making services that will
autonomous decision making; phased reduction of the railway not be subject to PSO;
network and service
optimization;
Creation of new railway   Adoption of plans for     Signing of contracts between  By mid-2004, achievement by
infrastructure company as an  optimization of the structure and he Govemment and the  the railway operating company
independent public agency  labor force of the railway  perating company for all  of a financial working ratio of
required to comply vwth   operatng and infrastructure  non-commercial passenger  105% (before subsidies and
minimum economic cntena for companles, including     ervices that vill be subject to  PSO payments),
its expenditures;         accountng separation between  SO,
he freight and passenger parts
of the railway operating
company-,
Issuance by the Ministry of  Increase in the cost recovary  Full accounting separation  Decrease in operating subsidies
Transport and Communicabons level of intercity passenger  between the freight and  (excluding loans and grants for
of regulations that (i) ensure  services to at least 70%;  passenger parts of the railway  nvestment) from 0 5% of GDP
that any willing and competent                        peratng company          n 2000 to 0 2% of GDP in 2004.
railway service supplier may be
icensed; (i) provide fair and
ransparent rules for track
access, and (iii) keep
transaction costs low for any
prospective service supplier,
Preparation of sound plan of  Adoption by the railway  Preparation of sound plan
acton for rationalization of rail infrastructure company of sound ensuring condibons for
network and operations.   systems and procedures for  pnvatization or concession of
planning/budgeting expenses; freight and passenger services,
Signing of a framework contract ailway operating company to
between the Govemment and  be given full freedom to set
the operatng company for  passenger fares and freight
services that will be subject to  arnffs in accordance with sound
PSO;                      commercial principles (except
n cases of PSO contracts).
Termination of 308 km     Track access charges to be set
loss-making services;      t full marginal soaal cost
recovery level effective as of
January 1, 2004;
Reduction of railway labor  Increase in cost recovery level
force by 10% compared to the of intercity passenger services
level at end of 2C1.      to at least 90% including
infrastructure charges based on
full marginal social cost;
Reduction in railway labor force
by 20% compared to the level a
end of 2001-
-56 -



-57-



