Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3922 BUL
Guarantee Agreement
(Railway Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 8, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3922 BUL
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ) (the Borrower), 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith betweenthe Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to ninety-five
million dollars ($95,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Section 1.01 of the Loan
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken all measures as may 
be required within its powers, including the provisions of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to carry out the 
Project and to comply with its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance and compliance.
Section 3.02. Not later than one month prior to submission of the relevant draft 
law on the state budget to the Guarantor's Parliament for each fiscal year, starting 
in 1996, the Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank with regard to the execution 
of the Contract Plan, the performance of the Guarantor's obligations under the 
Contract Plan and on the resource requirements and other actions necessary for the 
subsequent year in order to achieve the objectives stated in
the Contract Plan.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall ensure that all equipment financed under Part 
A of the Project remain the property of and in possession of the Borrower and shall 
not be transferred to the Ministry of Transport of the Guarantor or any division or 
unit thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovski Street
Sofia 1040
Republic of Bulgaria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
22 727 BG
Page  3
Sofia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
By /s/ Snezhana Botusharova
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
