                                    Documentof
                                The World Bank


                                                   ReportNo.: 32486




              PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                    BULGARIA

                    RAILWAYREHABILITATIONPROJECT
                              (CREDIT 3922-BUL)


                                   May 31,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Bulgarian Lev (BGL) The currency was revalued on June 17, 2000, but
the name of the currency was unchanged.

1995                                              BGL 153.77
                          US$l.oo
                          US$l.oo
1996                                              BGLl,634.47
1997                      U S $ l.oo              BGL ,761.70
1998                                              BGL ,844.19
                                                  BGL ,905.80
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
1999
2000                                              BGL    2.03
2001                      US$l.oo                 BGL    2.17
2002                      US$1.oo                 BGL    2.08


Abbreviationsand Acronyms

BDZ              BulgarianState Railway
BDZEAD           Bulgarian State Railways, Operating Company
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CEE              Central and East European Region
EBRD             European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECLAT            Export Credit LoanAgreement
ERR              Economic Rate o f Return
EU-PHARE!        European Union-Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
BRD              InternationalBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
ICR              ImplementationCompletion Report
MIS              Management Information System
MOTC             MinistryofTransport andCommunications
NATO             North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NRIC             National Railway Infrastructure Company
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PSO              Public Service Obligation
RAP              Restructuring Action Plan
S A R            StaffAppraisal Report


FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment        : Mr.KylePeters
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group   : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.Peter Freeman

                                                             1




   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assessesabout 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;thosefor which
 Executive Directors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
 important lessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or'
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the         *
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                         111



Contents

PrincipalRatings           ..............................................................................................................   vi

Key Staff Responsible               ......................................................................................................  vi

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................     ..
                                                                                                                                            v11

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................    ix

1. Background...................................................................................................................

2. The Project...................................................................................................................2

3. Results     ...........................................................................................................................   6

4. Ratings      ........................................................................................................................    10

5. ConclusionsandLessons                        ........................................................................................... 13

Annex A. BasicData Sheet                    ..............................................................................................  16

Annex B Borrower Comments                          ........................................................................................ 18




This reportwas preparedbyPeterFreemanandThomas Kennedy, who assessedthe project inFebruary
2005. The reDortwas editedbv William Hurlbut,andRomawePereiraprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                   V



PrincipalRatings

                                ICR*                           ES*                        PPAR
Outcome                     Satisfactory            Moderately satisfactory       Moderately satisfactory
Sustainability                 Likely                    Non-evaluable                Non-evaluable
Institutional                Substantial                   Substantial                  Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Borrower                    Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible

Project                       Task Manager/Leader              Division Chief/        Country Director
                                                               Sector Direcfor
 Appraisal                       Jacques Yenny                Ricardo Halperin          Rachel Lomax
 Completion                   Jean-Charles Crochet             Hossein Razavi         Andrew N. Vorkink


                                             vii


Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared'by OED for
the Railway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3922) for Bulgaria. The original amount o f the
loan was US$95 million and was approved on July 6, 1995. The borrower was the
Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ), and the loan was guaranteed by the Government o f
Bulgaria. The effective date o f the loanwas March 1, 1996, and the loan was closed on
June 30,2002, with US$SO milliono f the funds disbursed. The project closing was
delayed for two years due primarily to delays inproviding counterpart funding for the
track rehabilitation. The unusedportion o f the loanresulted from the failure to implement
the Management Information System (MIS).

        The project was chosen for assessment because it was the first Bank loan for the
transport sector inBulgaria and exemplifies the learning experiences gained from the
railway restructuring process during a period o f significant transformation o f state
enterprises and modernization o f physical infrastructure. The reasons for the failure o f the
M I S implementation are also identified to provide lessons for future projects.

        OED prepared this report based on an examination o fthe relevant StaffAppraisal
Report (SAR), Implementation Completion Report (ICR), legal agreements, project files
and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers.
Discussions were also held with a number o f existing and former Bank staff in
Washington DC, as well as inBulgaria. An OED mission visited Bulgaria inFebruary
2005, conducted site visits, and discussed both the project and the effectiveness o f Bank
assistance with government officials and stakeholders. Their kindassistance i s greatly
appreciated.

         The project reviewed inthis report hadnine components, three o f which were
financed by the Bank (comprising 56 percent o f total foreign exchange costs) and
included track renewal and maintenance, track maintenance machinery, the M I S and
training. The other six components were co-financed by EBRD(US$45 million), EU-
PHARE (US$18 million), andthrough export credits arrangedby EBRD(US$12
million). Those components included signaling and telecommunications, track
maintenance machines and spares, traction and rolling stock maintenance, rehabilitation
o f coaches, technical assistance and a locomotive driver simulator.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the PPARwere sent to relevant
government officials and agencies for their comments and are attached as Annex B.


                                               ix


 Summary

        This is the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Bulgarian
Railway Rehabilitationproject approved in 1995. The railway was desperately inneed
o f reform as the economic recession that affected Bulgaria duringthe early 1990shad a
particularly severe impact on the Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ).Traffic had fallen
dramatically and the BDZwas ill-preparedto cope with the newly emergingcompetitive
environment andneededto be more responsive to its customers.

        The Railway RehabilitationProject was fundedjointly bythe Bank (US$95
million) and EBRD(US$45 million); EU-PHARE providedUS$18 million and export
credits o f US$12 millionwere also arranged by the EBRD.The Bank project funded
track renewal andrehabilitation, purchase o f some track maintenance machinery,
installation o f a Management Information System(MIS), and training. OnMarch 1, 1996
the Bank loanbecame effective and closed on June 30,2002. Dueto the failure to fully
implementthe MIS, aportionofthe Bank loan (about US$15 million) was cancelled and
US$80millionwas disbursed.

        The objective o fthe project was to support and deepenthe restructuringprocess
that had already been started by the railway organizationand government; it also
supported a set o fpolicy measures that were embodied inthe new Railway Law, the
RestructuringAction Plan(RAP), and the Performance Contracts between the operating
companies and the government. The project was fully consistent with the Bank's 1993
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which included as its main goals macroeconomic
stabilization, transformationo f state enterprises, and modernization o fBulgaria's
physical infrastructure.

        The outcome o fthe project is rated moderately satisfactory. The first objective
to support and deepenthe restructuring process was substantially achieved, but the
second objective (allowing BDZto operate commercially) was only partially achieved.
Track renewal was substantially completed by the end o f the project, some important
steps toward institutional and regulatoryreform were taken, and the Contract Planwas
implemented. The primary deficiencies inthe project were the failure to implementthe
MISsystem, the lack ofa costing systemthat would allow therailwayto operate in
accordance with commercial principles, the slow response by the government to
rationalize the network, and lack of a clear definition o fthe railway lines and services the
government intendsto subsidize. The institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated
substantial. The project has ledto significant institutional changes supporting the
development o f a legal and legislativeframework for the future viability o f the rail sector
inBulgaria.TheRailwayLaw that was enactedin2000providedfor the establishment of
the separation o fthe infrastructure and operating organizations o fthe BDZ.A Contract
Planwas also established between the government andthe BDZ operating company.

        There is some doubt that the future benefits o fthe project will be fully realized,
which couldjeopardize the sustainability o f the project. This i s evident from the lack o f
full government commitment to date to givingBDZ autonomy inthe setting oftariffs, the

                                               X




failure to close uneconomic branch lines, and to adjust service levels to matchdemand.
There is continuedprotectionofthe railway, which is not conducive to establishing a
commercial and competitive environment and i s detrimental to the sustainabilityo fthe
project's benefits. As Bulgariamoves closer to accession o f the EU,however, there will
be greatly increasedpressure to move therailwayreformprocess forward at amuchmore
rapid rate. Based on the information available and interviewsundertaken by the PPAR         '
mission, the sustainability o f the project's benefits would be rated unlikely at this time if
it were not for the urgent accessionrequirements. Theposition is therefore expectedto
improve rapidly as a result o fthis pressure, andbold actions are anticipated by the
government and BDZ inthe near future. For this reason alone sustainability i s rated non-
evaluable.

         Bank and borrower performance are both ratedsatisfactory. There were,
however, some areas where closer monitoring o f implementationon the part o f the Bank
could have ledto a more successful project. This i s particularlytrue regardingthe
implementation o f the MIS.Closer monitoring by the Bank duringthe period o f dispute
between the contractor andthe BDZ, and direct interventionwith technical assistance
mighthave movedthe MISimplementationforward. Theborrower also caused some
delay to the completion o fthe project by failure to provide counterpart financing intime
for the track rehabilitation component to be fully completed. One area o f weakness has
beenthe lack o f autonomy ofthe railway operating company. All decisions regarding          ,
tariff changes, line abandonment, and adjustment oftrain services are effectively madeby
the government, throughthe Ministry o fTransport. This critical element o ftransport
policy has so far kept the railway from becoming a commercially oriented organization.
The following lessonsmaybedrawn from the experience ofthis project:

0   Rationalizingsubsidy support and introducing appropriate trafJic costing models are
    important pre-requisites to restoringthe long-term financial health o f state-owned
    railway companies and moving them towards commercial operation;


0   It is critical to the success of a complex undertakingsuch as the installationof an
    integrated Management Information System that sufJicient technical supervision and
    support bemade available to assist with resolvingproblems as they arise;


0   An integratedManagement InformationSystemmaybetoo complex an undertaking
    to implement as a single package ina transitioning economy; consideration shouldbe
    givento aphased design approach;


0   Public Service Obligation Subsidy shouldbe for specific services that the government
    considers socially necessary; such social services shouldbe transparent, explicitly
    definedand fully compensated as part o fa Contract Plan.

                                                              Ajay Chhibber
                                                              Acting Director-General
                                                              Operations Evaluation

                                               1


 1.      Background

 1.1     Bulgariai s located inthe Central and East EuropeanRegion (CEE) and has a land
area o f 110,900 square kilometers and a population o f 7.8 million; per capita income was
estimated to be US$2,130 in2003. Bulgaria's northemborder i s with Romania;
Macedonia and Serbia lie to the west; Greece and Turkey to the south; and the Black Sea
i s to the east o f the country. Duringthe communist era, up untilthe 1990, Bulgaria's
economy was basedmainly on the productiono f machinery, electronics, and chemicals.

 1.2     Dominatedby the communist party since 1946, Bulgaria held its first multi-party
elections in 1990 and begana transition towardpolitical democracy. The socialist party       ,
heldpower untilthe serious economic downturnin 1996, which ledto the fall o fthe
government. Since that time, the government's commitment to market-based economic
reforms has strengthened; Bulgariajoined NATO in2004 and has applied for accession
to the EuropeanUnion.

1.3      The Bulgarian economy i s now intransition from central planning to a free
market system and increased competition. Investment inthe transport sector during the
1980s averaged about US$500 million annually, with the railways' share o f this
investmentfalling from 35 percent in 1980to 25 percent in 1989. Inthe sameperiod,
investmentinthe road sector increased from 50 percent to over 60 percent. Duringthe
first half o f the 1990s, transport investment effectively ceased, with only US$24 million
beingspent, primarily for urgentrepairs andsome periodic maintenance; no new
investmentswere made duringthat period.

1.4      Bulgaria has 4,294 kilometers o frailway, more than 50 percent o fwhich are
electrified. While most centrally planned economies were highly dependent upon
railways, Bulgariawas less so. In 1989, rail accounted for only about 45 percent o f
freight traffic, interms o fton-kilometers. The change of government inmost o fthe
EasternEuropean countries during 1990s seriously disrupted freight traffic patterns and
significantlyreduced rail traffic. By 1992, freight traffic throughout the CEEhad fallen to
a level 57 percent less than during 1989, with passenger traffic on the Bulgarian State
Railway (BDZ) falling by 36 percent during the same period. Bythe mid 1990s, the road
share o f Bulgaria's freight traffic was about 50 percent -the highestinthe CEE
countries, though much lower thaninWestem European countries.

1.5      This new economic environment requiredthe railway systemto reduce staff,
focus on its core business and separate ancillary services, and to become service- and
customer-oriented to ensure survival inthe new competitive environment. The Railway
RehabilitationProject (Cr. 3922) was designed to assist inthe reform o f the system.

                                                   2


2.       The Project

ProjectObjectives.

2.1     The project hadtwo objectives. The first objectivewas to support and deepenthe
restructuringprocess already started by the railways andthe government. The second
objective was to support policy measures embodied inthe new Railway Law, the
RestructuringAction Plan, and the Contract Planbetween the BDZ and the government
that allowed the BDZ to operate commercially, and for the government to compensate the
BDZfor providing socially important butunprofitable services byidentifyingthe
railway's Public Service Obligation (PSO).

2.2     The objectives and components ofthe IBRD-fimdedportion o f the project are
summarized inTable 2. The objectives were quite general. Inaddition to the restructuring
o fthe railway, and supporting the reformspreviously initiated within the government,
there were several specific infrastructure improvementprojects that were neededto
support these policy measures. The components o fthe project comprise the specific
improvements to the infrastructure o fthe railway that would enable the railway's
management to meet the project objectives.

2.3     The Bank loanwas inthe amount ofUS$95 million (56 percent ofthe total
project cost), though only US$80 millionwas disbursed.An additional US$75 million
(44 percent) inco-financing was made available from EBRD (US$45 million), export
credits (ECLAT' US$12 million), and EU-PHARE(US$18 million). The major reason
for the shortfall indispersal o fthe IRBDfunds was the failure to successfully conclude
the implementation o fthe Management Information System(MIS).There was also a
delay inthe implementation o fthe track renewal and maintenance due to a shortage o f
counterpart funds from the government. A grant from the EUto BDZ inthe amount o f
20 millionwas necessaryto provide this counterpart funding.

Table 2: Railway RehabilitationinBulgaria,IBRD Componentsand Costs

Components                                      Costs (US$ millions)
                                             ARRraiSal           Actual
Track renewaland maintenance                   50.20              47.59
Track maintenancemachines                      29.90              24.10

ManagementInformationSystem (MIS)              13.90              8.09

Trainingof BDZ management                      1.oo               0.67

Total cost                                     95.0               80.45




1, ExportCredit LoanAgreement arranged by EBRD; this amount fundedaportion of the track
maintenance machinery as well as catenary maintenance and inspectionvehcles.

                                                      3


Project Components

2.4      The track rehabilitationprogram andprovisiono ftrack maintenance machinery,
though delayed, was about 84 percent completed by the closure o f the project. At the end
o f 2002 a total o f 336 kilometers of track hadbeenrehabilitated, compared with the 400
kilometers planned. According to documents o f the NationalRailway Infrastructure
Company (NRIC), a total o f427 kilometers o ftrack will be rehabilitated by the end o f
2005, and the rehabilitationwork i s continuing usingNRIC funds. Details o f the
description and location o f each section rehabilitated were perused from NRIC records.
The PPAR missionvisited selectedrehabilitatedsections andconfirmedthat the work
was accomplished and train speeds have increased as projected. Inaddition to the track
and catenary maintenance equipment a welding workshop was also suppliedunder the
project and all are still inuse byNRIC. The rehabilitationwork significantly increased
the speed o fthe trains. Typically before the project, the track sections improvedcarried
speed restrictions o fbetween 60 and 70 kilometers per hour. After the work these speed
restrictions were removed and speeds up to 120kilometers per hour became possible2.

2.5      All rehabilitationwork compliedwith Bulgarianenvironmental provisions.
Includedinthis work was protection for embankments and improvement of drainage
along the line. This is an important issue as manyrail lines inthe regionhave severe
problems due to failing embankments and poor drainage. Such protection works should'
be incorporated inall future track rehabilitationprojects, particularlyinmountainous
regions or areas subject to flooding.

2.6      The secondproject component fundedby the Bank was the implementation o f the
MIS.Issuesregarding the failure to fully implementthis itemare discussedinthenext
section.

2.7     Inaddition, the Bank also fundedtraining for BDZmanagement staff, The
trainingprograms focused on planningand budgeting, marketing, humanresources
development, financial management, and accounting. Three other training programs were
implemented, withparticipants from Bulgariaand overseas. Topics includedinternational
accounting standards, internal control, and audit procedures.


ImplementationIssues

Management Information System

2.8     Clearly the most serious difficulty with the executiono f the project was the
failure to implement the MIS, which was intended to provide management with a modem
operational and decision support system. Although the contract for the data network
upgrade element was completed, the three applications for the passenger information
system, freight operation system, and the financial management systemwere not

2.The limit of 120kilometers per hour is due to the rolling stock condition, (most passenger coaches are not
equippedto operate at speeds inexcess of 120kilometersper hour); withimprovedrolling stock, speeds of
130-140kilometersper hour would be possible.

                                                      4


implemented. The usefulness o f the completed data network i s limited, though it can still
bemade compatible with any future MISapplications.

2.9       The MISimplementationfailed to yield substantial benefits to BDZmanagement.
The contractor, after receivingaprepayment inthe amount ofUS$1.4 million, reported to
BDZthat the total cost o ftheir services would amount to morethan double the original
 estimated amount. The approach was a complete departure from existing sofiware in                          '

BDZandwas not linkedto ongoing changesinmanagement processes3.Disagreement
and tension increased between the contractor and BDZ and little further progress was
made inimplementation. Some computer terminals had already beendeliveredby early
2005, but BDZ and the contractor were still not inagreement about payments due to
BDZ.The contractor claims that the computer terminals already deliveredshouldhave
beena credit against the US$1.4 millionprepayment received fi-om BDZ. The BDZ
claims these terminals, now four years old, are obsolete for their intendeduse, and the
value against the prepayment i s effectively zero.

2.10      InJanuary 2001the first oftwo workshops inSofiawas heldto try andresolve
some issues between the BDZ andthe contractors implementingthe MIS.A work plan,
agreedto byboth parties, was the primary output o fthe first workshop. The second
workshop was heldinearly March 2001 and although some o f the actions identifiedin
January hadbeencompleted, some serious issues remained unresolved and the workshop
endedwithout an agreement beingreached. Since these initialworkshops, no further
progress has beenmade toward resolvingdifferences. ByDecember 2001,all progress
hadbeen suspendedon all three MIS projects (passenger, freight, and financial
management). ByApril 2002, the consultant's staffhadbeenwithdrawn from Sofia and
the Minister ofTransport heldapress conference inApril 2002, formally announcing that
the MISimplementationhadfailed.

2.11     The Bank's technicalconsultant visited SofiainApril 2002 inan attempt to
salvage the situation. However, boththe railway and the contractor's positions had
solidified by that time and a resolution could not be achieved. A further complication was
the imminentreorganization ofthe BDZ into two entities, one for infrastructureandone
for operations. This event added uncertaintyto any further effort to find an amicable
resolution.

2.12     Withthebenefito fhindsight,the Bank's interventioninto the implementation
process o f the MIS should have begunwell before January 2001. Inretrospect, it was
probablyunrealistic to expect that a turnkey project could be implemented without
significant difficulties. A more realistic approach, for a country undergoing an enormous
transition, mighthave been to implementthe system instages, with each identified
module being completed separately.




3. The ICR comments that "the radical nature o f the changes, the lack of a trial and error process, the speed
of decision-making made necessary by the contract implementationprocess..      ....were such that an
adversarial relationshp was almost unavoidable".

                                                    5


 2.13     Withthe failure ofthe MISimplementation, the BDZhas only a limited
 management information system. Informationthat i s available i s prepared and
 disseminated manually. As o f early 2005, the BDZmanagement was puttingtogether
 individual modules o f a MIS (not an integrated system) usingownresources. Two
 modules now under development include a passenger train reservation system(including
 only 9 or 10 major stations initially) and a freight consignment note module. Eventually,
 online purchase o fpassengertickets i s envisaged as these systems are more fully
 de~eloped.~

 Compliance with InternationalAccounting Standards

 2.14     Based on discussions with the management o f BDZ, as well as an examination o f
 recent audit reports o f BDZ, the compliance o f the accounts with internationalstandards
 i s apparently not yet complete. KPMGperforms the annual audit o f the accounts o fboth
 the NRIC andthe BDZEAD.Intheir audit report o fthe accounts for 2003 for each
 company certainproblems were highlighted. Inthe case o fNRIC they related to the
 deterioration o f liquidity andinthe case o f BDZ EADto the validity o fmanagement's
 assumptions regardingthe evaluation o f assets. Addressingthe shortcomings to ensure
 full compliance with internationalaccounting standardsmayrequire additional
 assistance.

Effectiveness of Co-financing Arrangements

2.15      According to the project's financing plan, the Bank financed 56 percent o f the
total foreign exchange costs o fthe project with the remainder funded by the EBRD,
export credits arranged through EBRD, and EU-PHARE.With the cancellationo f
approximatelyUS$15 million (11million) o f the Bank loan, the effective proportion o f
total project foreign exchange costs borne by the Bank was 52 percent. The components
o fthe project hndedby each co-financing organization were complementary and hlly
supported the objectives o f the project. The amounts o f the co-financing partners were
fully disbursed.

2.16      The EBRDinits ExpandedMonitoringReport o f September 2001 reportedthat'
"the project implementationhasbeenhamperedby a number o finternal andexternal
factors., ..the major negative implicationi s the continuous financial losses o f BDZ." The
report ratedEBRDsportion o f the project as "good" for most evaluation criteria, with the
exception o f "overall client financial performance," which was rated "unsatisfactory."
The railway was reportedto be inviolation o f a covenant o f the loanwith respect to the
working ratio. The covenant stipulated that the working ratio should be less than 1; for
theBDZEADrecent operating ratioshave beeninthe rangeo f 1.1and 1.3. This
experience was endorsed by the Bank, which closely monitored the RestructuringAction
Plan. The planhad a target ceiling for the working ratio o f 1.O by 1998 and a debt service


4. BDZmanagement told the PPARmission that there i s a problem with some conductors selling tickets
onboard and keeping the money. Itis anticipated that this system may help alleviate this practice through
better information. A more accurate count o fpassengers and tickets sold should isolate the incidences of
these practices.

                                                6


ratio gradually increasing to 1.O; the reality inthe context of a difficult general economic
situationwas that there was a slight underperformance inthe working ration and a
significant shortage inthe debt service coverage ratio.

Shortfalls in theProvision of Counterpart Funds

2.17    Inorder to support the trackrenewalprogramunderthe loan, the BDZ (prior to
the reorganization and creation o f NFUC) was responsible for local counterpart funding
for installationworks. Duringthe early stages o f the project, with over 50 percent o f the
loan amount expendedfor track materials, track renewalhadnot taken place, due to this
shortage o f counterpart funding. To resolve this problem, the BDZ obtained from EU-
PHARE a grant o f20 million.

2.18    Reasons for the shortage o f counterpart funding include the financial crisis o f
1996/97 and the Yugoslavia crisis, which caused a severe decline inrailtraffic, falling
values o fthe Lev, and a resultant financial crisis within BDZ.However, funds were
eventuallymobilized and 84 percent o f the track renewalwas implementedby close o f
the project.



3.      Results

Objective 1:Support and deepen the restructuringprocess which the railways and
government had initiated.

3.1     Most o f the critical elements o fthe restructuringprocess were implemented,
including separation o fnon-core activities from the railway organization, reducing
railway staff to enhance operational efficiency, andreducingrailway infrastructure
consistent with traffic levels.

3.2     Total employment o f the single railway company in 1995 was 57,000; staff levels
bythe end of2004 were 32,690. Some o fthe reduction came about when non-core
activities were separatedand privatized; other reductions were due to attrition. For
example, between 1999 and 2000, workshops for undertakingmajor repairs were
privatized, resultinginthe reduction o f 5,000 BDZ staff, This process continues, with the
elimination and/or privatizationo f staff facilities such as recreation centers andhospitals.
The goal o fBDZwas to achieve a 20 percent reductiono f staffbythe endo f 2004
comparedwith 2001. The actual reductionduring that periodwas 17percent.

3.3     Despite these staffreductions, the labor cost when expressed as a percentage o f
operating costs has declined only marginally since 2002, as shown inFigure 1.

                                                    7


 Figure1: Labor Cost as % of OperatingCost


    60%

    40%


    20%

      0%
               2002          2003       2004         2005




 3.4     The Railway Regulator (Railway Administration Executive Agency) has been
 appointed within the Ministryo f Transport' and i s charged with the responsibility o f
administering the relationshipbetween the NRIC and BDZ EAD, implementingthe
performance contracts under the Public Service Obligation to control the government's
tariff policy as well as issuing licenses and operating permits to roadoperators. The
Railway Regulator i s also responsible for control o ftariffs charged for track access by the
NRIC. EUdirectives regardingthe legal and institutionalstructures for railways have
beenmet inBulgaria as a result o f implementingthe rehabilitationproject. Most non-core
activities have been separatedfrom the operating companies. The process o f separating
the remainingnon-core activities continues andadditional staffreductions are planned.
Open access i s available intheory, though no private rail operators have yet been
established. The first objective o f the project was, to sum up, substantially achieved.

Objective 2: Support policy measures embodied in the new Railway Law, the
RestructuringAction Plan, and the ContractPlan between the BDZ and the Government
that allowed BDZ to operate commercially andfor the Government to compensate the
BDZfor providing socially important but unproJitable services.

3.5       The New Railway Law was enacted inNovember 2000 and amended inOctober
2002. This law provides for the separation o f the infrastructure provision function
(NRIC) from the operating entity (BDZ EAD). The linkbetweenthe two companies i s
the Track Access Charge, which BDZ EADpays to NRIC. The Contract Planwas signed
in1996.Subsequently, an analysis oftheBDZcost structure was undertaken andthe
requirements o f the Passenger Service Obligation (PSO) were identified. This analysis
ledto the new 1999-2003 Contract Planbetween the BDZ andthe government. PSO
subsidypayments for passengeroperations have beenrelatively constant since 2002.



5. This position was establishedpursuant to Decree no. 167 o f June 2001, o fthe Council o f Ministers.

                                                        8


 Figure2 summarizes the total government support for the Bulgarianrailways since 2002,
 showing amounts separately for NRIC and BDZ EAD.

      Figure 2: Government Support for Bulgarian Railways


              I                                               I
     *L   201       4




                   2002       2003        2004       2005

                 I +BDZ EAD       -eNRIC-A-          Total RailI


 3.6      While intheory, the provisionexists inthe Contact Planto reimbursethe operator
 for providingmoney-losing social passenger services, the amount o f subsidypaid i s less
than the amount required, and the operator has not beenable or willing to discontinue
trains on unprofitable routes. Passengertariffs remainunder the authority o f the
government.

3.7       Officials at the Railway Regulator advised the PPARmission that the railway
operating company, as a commercial organization, has considerable autonomy with
respect to pricing andthe provisiono f services. However, the operator must consider the
social implications o f such decisions. These implications include the low incomes o f the
majority o f the travelingpublic inBulgaria and the fact that all citizens have a "right to
transport," with the implicationthat this i s a right to railtransport. Ifthis i s indeedthe
position o fthe Bulgarian government, then such service levels should be fully supported
financially, as a part o f the PSOpayments to the BDZ EAD for social servicesa6

3.8       As part o fthe existing legislation, ifthe government fails to provide sufficient
PSO subsidiesto enable the operator to continue operations, the operator i s permittedto
abandon services on selected lines. Inpractice, this has never beendone.

3.9       One critical element that is necessarybefore the railway can be expected to
operate on commercialprinciples i s the abandonment o f lightly used, uneconomic branch


6.The RailwayRegulator also has the authority to issue road service permits to bus operators. There is
some element o fprotection of the railway passenger service inherent inthe method used to determine the
eligibility of proposed bus routes for issuing of operating authority. For example, the PPARmission was
told that a bus may not operate from a locationnear the railway station to within 15 minutes o f the
departure o f a train, ifthe bus and train would traverse the same route. Issuingo f such permits i s termed
"unfair competition" for the railway. Inrural areas, if a railway line exists, generally applications for a bus
permitwould be denied.

                                                         9


lines, or at least to remove from the BDZ the obligation to operate these lines. Inan effort
to maintain service on these lines, the government has offered the right to use the line                        '


free o f charge to any private operator (or municipality) that wishes to do so. No
organizationhas, however, taken up this offer and no further action has beentaken to
relieve BDZ EAD from the obligationto provide service on these lines.

3.10      The government still controls passenger fare levels andthe decision as to whether
to withdraw services on uneconomic branchlines. Infact, no branchlines have had
services discontinued and passenger fares remain at low levels. Losses incurredin
providing passenger services continue to rise, while PSO subsidies are declining.
Adequate capital funds are not available to rehabilitate the passenger equipment -the
condition o fwhich remains an impediment to increasing runningspeed -makingthe
service non-competitivewith roadtransport.

3.11 The formula for allocatingtrack access charges between freight and passenger
operations has beenadjusted recently to reflect usage more correctly. Prior to 2004, the
total amount o f money requiredfor track maintenance by the NRIC was about 150
millionlevaper year. Approximately 9 million leva (about 6 percent o ftotal track access
costs) was charged to the passenger operator, with the remainder charged to freight
traffic. The distributiono f these costs now i s on the order o f 50 million leva (33 percent)
charged to passenger service, with the remaining 100million leva charged to freight
~ervice.~

3.12      The Restructuring Action Plan(RAP) consists of objectives/issues, actions,
responsibilities timetable, and achievement for eight separate categories: institutional,
organizationandmanagement, operational andmarketing, infrastructure, traction and
rolling stock, humanresources, finance, and environment.

3.13      While the Contract Planhas been established, BDZ's autonomy and financial
sustainability under the provisions o f the PSO have not been fully implemented. Some
redundant station tracks have been abandoned but this does not include service reductions
or closures o f uneconomic branchlines.* The failure to implement the MIS i s also a
deficiency inthe achievement o f the RAP. Inan attempt to provide BDZ marketingstaff
with operational costs for services, a Canadian costingmodel, Oscar, was implemented
for a short time but subsequentlyits use was discontinued. The PPARmissionwas not
able to verify the robustness o f this model, but it i s doubtful whether it would be a useful
tool for the evaluation o f specific services and the development o fpricing strategies. It


7. This track access charge allocation can be compared with ton-kilometers - during2004 on the basis o f
gross ton-kilometers, passenger service amounted to 42 percent and freight 58 percent of the total. This
would indicate that passenger transport is still slightly subsidized by freight transport, but t h s represents a
much more equitable distribution that that which existed inprevious years.
8. Ina report fundedunder the project, through Japanese Consultant Trust Fund, Bulgaria StateRailways,
Rationalization of Rail Network and Operations, Establishment of PSO Contracts, and Improvements in
Marketing, PADECO, November 2002, there were 28 lines identified encompassing more than 1,300
kilometers o f track that were found to be nonviable and were recommended for abandonment, or specific
state subsidy support.

                                              10


 can therefore be concluded that the full achievement o fthe RAP has not been realized.
 Based on the precedinganalysis, the secondobjective hasbeenpartially achieved.



 4.     Ratings

 Outcome

4.1     The outcome o fthe project is rated moderately satisfactory. The first objective
to support and deepen the restructuringprocess was substantially achieved, but the
 second objective allowing BDZ to operate commercially was only partially achieved.

4.2     Track renewalwas substantially completed by the end o fthe project, some
important steps toward institutionaland regulatoryreform were taken andthe Contract
Planwas implemented. The primary deficiencies inthe project were the failure to
implementthe MISsystem - the lack ofa costing systemthat would allow the railwayto
operate inaccordance with commercialprinciples - the slow response by the government
to rationalizethe network, and lack o f a clear definition o f railway lines and services the
government intendsto subsidize.

4.3     The government has not yet finalized its policy with regardto services and routes
that the BDZ i s expected to operate. The railway cannot improve its efficiency while it
continues to operate the national system as now defined. Ina report prepared under the
project, a proposal has beenmade to the government identifying28 lines o f more than
1,300 kilometers for abandonment. The next steps should be the prioritization o f these
1,300 kilometers o f route for closure and evaluation o f alternative means to provide
service (for example, roadtransport substitution or private operation o fthe line). This
has, however, not yet beendone, signifyingrelatively weak government commitment.

Relevance

4.4     The relevance o fthe project objectives i s high. The kindo frestructuringcalled
for inthe project remains essential to support the country's changing economic structure,
as the railway faces increasing competition from the road sector and a declining traffic
base. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) o f 1993 supported the
government's structural adjustment program and macroeconomic stabilization objectives.
The Bank's strategy inthe transport sector was to promote efficiency inboth investments
and operations, through establishment o f a competitive environment, private sector
investmentand soundpricingpolicies. This projectwas a timely interventiondue to the
drain on fiscal resources that could be expected ifrestructuringdidnot to take place.

                                                    11


Efficacy

4.5      The efficacy o f the project i s rated modest. The legal and legislative structures
were established, but several important aspectso fthe project's objectives were not fully
implemented. The first objective was substantially achieved while the second objective
only partially achieved.

4.6      With regardto the physicalworks o fthe project, about 84 percent o ftrack
rehabilitation was completed by the project closure date (track rehabilitation was 53
percent o fthe Bank loan); the MIS was not successful(l5 percent o f the Bank's project
costs). There were also deficiencies inthe achievement o f the project's reform objectives.
Inparticular, several areas ofthe RAPhavenotbeenachieved such as abandonment of
uneconomic branchlines and identificationo f social rail services that the government i s
willing to support financially.

Efficiency

4.7     The efficiency ofthe project is rated substantial.The railway has reduced its
work force; though the labor cost percentage o f total operating costs could be improved.
Some advances have beenmade toward commercialization and the legal groundwork has
beenestablished for amechanism for compensating the railoperators for maintaining
socially necessary services. The railway has also failed to reduce its service inline with
demand. For example, from 1998 to 2001,' passengertraffic declined 34 percent (interms
o fpassenger kilometers) but number o fpassenger train kilometers was reduced by only
16 percent. For freight traffic, ton-kilometers duringthe same perioddeclined by 18
percent, but freight train kilometerswere reduced by only 5 percent. Trains have become
less productive. The economic difficulties affecting Bulgaria also contributedtowards the
financial targets for debt service coverage and working ratios not being fully met in
accordance with the covenanted RestructuringAction Plan. Faced with drastic fiscal
constraints the government was unable to meet the level o f PSO payments required.

4.8      The economic evaluation at appraisal showed an ERR of 34 percent for the track
renewal, excluding passenger time savings (40 percent, includingpassenger time savings)
andan ERRo f22 percent for the MIS. The track renewalprogramwas 84 percent
achieved by the end o f the project, due to shortage o f counterpart funds. At completion
the revisedERRbased on the reducedtrack kilometers improvedwas ofthe order o f28
percent. Since the MISwas not implementedno revisedERR i s applicable.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

4.9     The institutionaldevelopment impact is ratedsubstantial.Theproject has ledto
substantial institutionalchanges leadingto the development o f a legal and legislative
framework for the future viability o fthe rail sector inBulgaria. The Railway Law that
was enacted in2000 provides for the establishment o f the separation o fthe infrastructure

9. A reportpreparedby the Bank at the requesto f the Bulgariangovernment with the topic "Broad Multi:
Sector publicexpenditure review."

                                                  12


 and operating organizations o f the BDZ.A Contract Planhas also beenestablished
 betweenthe government andthe BDZ EAD.As Bulgariais planningto join the EUin
 2007, the EUrequirementsregardingrailwayrestructuring are beingactivelypursued. In
 addition to the separation o f infrastructure from operations, the EUrequires that open
 access be grantedto all operators over BDZ tracks as well as the establishment o f a track
 access charge that would apply to all users. While at present BDZ EAD i s the only rail
 operator inBulgaria, the legalprovisions are inplace to permit open access.

 Sustainability

 4.10    The project certainly established a basis for future reform, butthere is some doubt
 that the potentialbenefits o f the project will be fully realized, which couldjeopardize the
 sustainability o f the project. This i s evident by the lack o f full government commitment
 to date to givingBDZ autonomy inthe setting o ftariffs and the failure to close
 uneconomic branchlines or to adjust service levels to matchdemand. The government
 continues to favor protectiono fthe railway, which i s not conducive to establishing a     .
 commercial and competitive environment and is detrimental to the sustainability o f the
project's benefits. Despite commissioning a study to investigate the introductiono f a
traffic costing system, the implementation o f such a system has yet to be commenced.

4.11 An IBRDreportlopreparedat the request o fthe Bulgariangovernment inmid2002
 statedthat the BDZ "does not operate as a commercial enterprise; itfunctions, rather, as
a government department." The report goes on to describe BDZ.. "For BDZprofit
                                                                         .,
maximization has not been a goal. Infact, its net income has been negative since the start
of the economic transition. Its deficit reached 124 million leva in 2001, or 21% of total
costs, even after taking into account operating subsidies provided by the government.
Like a government department, BDZ operates with very little cash and aims only at
balancing its revenues and the cash outflows necessary mainly for operations and debt
service."

4.12    As Bulgariamoves closer to accession ofthe EU, however, there will be
increased pressure to move the railway reform process forward at a much more rapidrate.
Based on the information available and interviewsundertakenby the PPAR mission, the
sustainability o fthe project's benefits would be ratedunlikely at this time ifit were not
for the urgent accessionrequirements. The positioni s therefore expected to rapidly
improve as a result o f this pressure andbold actions are anticipated by the government
and BDZ inthe near future. For this reason alone sustainabilityi s considered non-
evaluable.

Bank Performance

4.13    Bank perfonnance i s rated satisfactory, but marginally so because there were
some areas where closer monitoring o f implementationcould have led to a more
complete project. This i s particularly true regardingthe implementation o f the MIS.If
there hadbeen tighter monitoring by the Bank duringthe early period o f dispute between

10.Bulgaria StateRailway Fiscal Burden and Optionsfor Reform.

                                               13


 the contractor and the BDZ, the implementationo f the MIS mighthave moved forward.
 Too few missions were scheduled during 2001-02. This said, the Bank team did give       ,
 important technical support when it could, andthe comprehensive format for presenting
 and analyzingkey data affecting financial performance could be considered "best
 practice" for supervision o f state-owned enterprises.

 Borrower Performance

 4.14    Borrower performance i s rated satisfactory,but also marginally so, given the
problems with the MIS implementation, the delay inproviding counterpart finance and
 the fact that some o f the existing and past management staff o fBDZ expresseddoubt
 about the current degree o f commitment to the changes needed to ensure a commercially
 oriented railway inBulgaria.

 4.15    One area o fweakness remains the lack o f autonomy o fthe railway operating
 company. All decisions regardingtariff changes, line abandonment and adjustment of
train services are effectively made by the govemment, through the Ministryo f Transport.
This is a critical area andunless resolvedwill inhibit the railway from becomingatruly,
commercial company.

4.16     The PPARmissionrecognizes the difficulty faced by the govemment intaking
the steps o f line closure andreductionof services to the people. However, these difficult
measures will benecessary ifthe railway i s to move toward operations consistent with
commercialprinciples.



5.       Conclusions and Lessons

StrongerAdvisoryRole of the BankNeededfor ComplexImplementation
Components

5.1      A complex project component such as aManagement InformationSystem,
bringingnew technology andnecessitating a change inclient mindset, requires an
appropriately-sized level of supervision and technical support from the Bank.Should
interventions be necessary they should preferably occur at an early stage and the Bank
should not hesitate to intervene with the appropriate technical assistance to assure a
successful project.

PhasedImplementationof M I S Ratherthan Turnkey

5.2      Implementation o f an integrated MIS within any railway environment i s a
complex undertakingand shouldbe considered especially carefully ina transitioning
economy. Inthe event o f a future MISto be implementedon other railways inthe future,
it is recommended to implement the MIS inphases, each module one at a time, instead o f
the entire system at once. For example, the BulgarianMIS was composed o fthree
elements: a passenger informationmodule, a freight informationmodule and a financial

                                                    14


informationmodule. Eacho f these modules could have beenimplementedseparately, and
whenworking satisfactorily, the process ofintegrationwith the other systems couldhave
begun.Turnkey projects maybe inappropriate for suchprojects.

ImproveTraffic CostingCapabilityat BDZ

5.3      The trafic costing capability o f the operating companies needs to be strengthened
by usingan appropriate costing model. A procedure for such a costing technique was
described and demonstrated ina consultant's report prepared under technical assistance
within the project (usinga grant from Japan)". A list o flight-densityunprofitablebranch
lines was shown as well as a list o f stations that could be closed. Techniques
demonstrated inthis report couldbe usedas abasis for cost allocation and developing a
costing model for BDZ.

PSO Subsidiesto be Service Specific

5.4      Public Service Organization subsidypayments made to BDZ are based on
estimates o f the shortfall o f revenues compared with costs to provide passenger services,
with the constraint of available funds from the MinistryofFinance. While this is
consistent with the objectives o f the project, the PPARmission considers that infuture,
the PSO subsidy should befor specijk services that thegovernment considers socially
necessary and that BDZ cannot reasonably be expected to operate on a commercialbasis.
There may be other services that can be operated commercially, and these services should
not be supported by subsidy". A service specific subsidy would ensure that government
subsidy funds are supporting only those services that requiresuch support withthe
remainder o f services either commercially viable or abandoned. However, this can only
be implementedwhen a traffic costing systemis inplace to evaluate specific services
and/or routes.

5.5      The following lessonsmaybe drawn from the experience ofthis project:

    Rationalizingsubsidy support and introducing appropriate trafic costing models are
    important pre-requisites to restoringthe long-term financial health o f state-owned
    railway companies and moving them towards commercial operation;
    Itis critical to the successof a complex undertakingsuch as the installationo f an
    integrated Management Information Systemthat suflcient technical supervision and
    support be made available to assist with resolvingproblems as they arise;



11. Bulgaria StateRailways, Rationalization of Rail Network and Operations, Establishment of PSO
Contracts, and Improvements in Marketing; November, 2002; PADECO
12. See also EBRDs Expanded Monitoring Report of September 6, 2001with similar comments.

                                        15


An integrated Management Information Systemmaybetoo complex anundertaking
to implementas a single package ina transitioningeconomy; Consideration should be
given to aphaseddesign approach;
Public Service Obligation Subsidy should be for specific services that the government
considers socially necessary; such social services should be transparent, explicitly
definedand fully compensated as part of a Contract Plan.

                                                             16                                      Annex B


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

Railway Rehabilitation Project for Bulgaria (credit 3922-BUL)


                                                       Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
                                                        estimate       current estimate     amraisal estimate
Total project costs                                      $296.0            $280.0                  94.6
Loan amount                                              $95.0              $80.0                  84.2
Cofinancing                                              $75.0              $90.0                 125.0
Cancellation                                                                $15.0




                                                               Original                       Actual
Initiating memorandum                                        05/21/1993                     05/21/1993
Board approval                                               07/06/1995                     07/06/1995
Signing                                                      11/08/1995                     11/08/1995
Effectiveness                                                03/01/1996                    03101/I996
Closing date                                                 06/30/2000                    06/30/2002




                                                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                     No. Staff Weeks                    US$ (`000)
AppraisallNegotiations                                   n.a.                           379,000
Supervision                                              n.a.                           635,600
ICR
Total                                                                                   1,014,600
The supervisioncost figures include the cost of trust funds.

                                                     17                                     Annex B


Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle             Date     No. of        Specializations      Performance Rating trend
                               (month/year) persons         represented           rating
 Identification/ Preparation  03/16/93
                              06/15/93
Appraisal/Negotiation         06/24/94         1   Task Manager                S          S
                              04/17/95         1   Engineer                    S          S
                                               1   Env. Specialist             S          S
                                               1   Financial Analyst           S          S
                                               1   Operations Officer          S          S
Supervision                   11/17/1995       2   Pr. Transport Econ, (1)     S          S
                                                   Sr. Railway Engineer (1)    S          S
                              03/14/1996       2   Financial Analyst (1);      S          S
                                                   Pr. Transport Econ. (1)
                              05/10/1996       2   Financial Analyst (1);      S          S
                                                   Consultant (1)
                              12/02/1996       3   FinancialAnalyst (1);       S          S
                                                   Consultant (1); Project
                                                   Officer (1)
                              05119/1997       4   FinancialAnalyst (1);       S          S
                                                   Economist (1);Engineer
                                                   (1); Operations Officer (1)
                              12101/ I997      4   Operations Officer (1);     S          S
                                                   FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                                   Sr. Railway Specialist (1);
                                                   Sr. Systems Analyst (1)
                              05/12/1998       3   Operations Officer (1);     S          S
                                                   Sr. Railway Specialist;
                                                   Financial Analyst (1)
                              03/23/1999       3   Sr. Railway Specialist (1); S          S
                                                   Financial Analyst (1);
                                                   Sr. Operations Officer (1)
                                               3   Sr. Railway Specialist (1);
                                                   Financial Analyst (1);
                                                   Consultant (1)
                              06/26/2000       1   Financial Analyst (1)       S          S
                              12/07/2000      3    Sr. Transport Economist     S          S
                                                   (1); Sr. Financial
                                                   Analyst (1); Consultant (1) S          S
                              06/07/2001      3    Sr. Transport Economist     S          S
                                                   (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                                   Procurement Analyst (1)
                              12/13/2001      3    Sr. Transport Economist     S          S
                                                   (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                                   Procurement Analyst (1)
                              0611212002      4    Senior Transport Econ. (1); S          S
                                                   Financial Analyst (1);
                                                   Operations Officer (1);
                                                   Railways Adviser (1)
ICR

                                                        18


         Annex BBorrower Comments

           HK         99xH99                                                  NRIC
                                                                              National Railway
          HaUHOHWlHa KOMnaHHR                                              infrastructureCompany . -
    'Xeneoonbina ~rlQ>pacrpyrcrypa"
                         H

                      IJ,EHTPAJIHO YIIPABJIEm

  6yn. "MupHn flyma" M 110. CO@U 1233
  ren.: (+359 2) 932 6002                                                           www.rnil-infra bq
  Qa~c.(+3592) 932 6444




  Mr.AlainBarbu
  Manager
  Sector Thematic and GlobalEvaluation Group
  Operation Evaluation Department
  The World Bank

  Ms.Anelia Krusbkova
  DeputyMinister
  Ministryof Transportand Communication




  Re:       Bulgaria-Railway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3922 BUL) Drafi Project
            Performance AssessmentReport



            Dcar Mr.Barbu,

            Regarding Railway RehabiIitationProject Evaluation Draft Report submitted, financed by a
  governmentallywamnted loan(3922 BUL), we think this report fully andcorrectly revealsthe situation
  with respect to this project. The respective conclusions and recommendationscontain aIl key items,
  related to the Mfillment of NRlC'sproject-loanedobligations, as well as to my difficulties arisen inthis
  concem. Finally:RailwayNational Company accepts, admits and approvethe aforesaidReportand has
  no objectionsinthis respect.



  Withbestregards


1 General
  Dimitar Gaidarov
              Manager

