Page  1
BULGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
November 8, 1995
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re:
Loan No. 3922 BUL
(Railway Rehabilitation Project)
Representations
 Dear Sirs:
In connection with the Loan Agreement to be entered into today between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Bulgarian State 
Railways (BDZ), BDZ hereby undertakes and warrants to the Bank that:
1.
The financial statements dated 12/31/1992, 12/31/1993 and 12/31/1994, copies of 
which have been furnished to the Bank, correctly set forth the financial and operating 
condition of BDZ as of such date and that since such date there have been no material 
adverse changes in the financial and operating conditions of BDZ.
2.
BDZ is not engaged in litigation as plaintiff or defendant, the outcome of which 
might materially and adversely affect its financial condition.
3.
BDZ has no outstanding agreements or liabilities, contingent or otherwise 
(including taxes) which might materially and adversely affect its financial condition.
4.
No debt of BDZ is secured by any mortgage, pledge, charge, priority or other 
lien, and no contract or arrangement exists for the creation of any such mortgage, 
pledge, charge, priority or other lien, except as follows:
-
Pledge of movable property over 991 wagons to Tourist Sport Bank;
 
-
Pledge of movable property over 550 wagons to Tourist Sport Bank;
 
-
Pledge of movable property over 793 wagons to Tourist Sport Bank;
 
-
Pledge of movable property over 20 electric shunting locomotives and of 
long term 
assets of US$3 million to Tourist Sport Bank;
 
-
Pledge over shares in Tourist Sport Bank for 10 million BG Leva.
 
5.
There are no existing defaults in the payment of principal of, or interest or 
other charges, on any of BDZ's debts.
6.
BDZ is not in violation of, and execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement and 
the compliance with all its terms do not and will not result in any violation of, any 
provisions of any existing agreement, franchise, concession, license or permit, or of 
any statute, law, regulation or any other legal rule of a similar nature presently in 
effect and applicable to BDZ.
7.
BDZ is a duly existing state-owned stock company under the laws of the Republic 
of Bulgaria with full authority to carry out its present business, to carry out the 
Project and to execute and deliver the Loan Agreement and has furnished to the Bank 
true copies of all other legislation presently in force and effect and governing or 
applicable to the operations of BDZ, as well as of its statutes as in effect and 
governing BDZ.
It is our mutual understanding that in making the Loan to BDZ, the Bank may rely 
on the representations contained herein.
Page  2
Very truly yours,
BULGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
By /s/ Snezhana Botusharova
Authorized Representative
