Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3986-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
P0ESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 20.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
March 4, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performaince of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -    Kwacha
US$1           -    K 2.00
US$0.50        -    K 1.00
(The US Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate
shown above is the rate that prevailed at
the beginning of N1ovember 1984.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           .  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      -  0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (km2)  -  0.386 sq miles
1 metric ton (tonne)  -  1,000 kg - 2,204.6 pounds
I liter               -  1.057 US quarts - 0.22 Imp. gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB     -    African Development Bank
CH       -     Contract Haulage, Ltd.
CIDA     -     Canadian International Development Agency
CPU            Contingency Planning Unit
FRG            Federal Republic of Germany
GNqP     =    Gross National Prod'tct
GOZ            Government of Zambia
.MAWD    -    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MPTC     -    Ministry of Power, Transport and Communications
MWS      -    Ministry of Works and Supply
NCDP           National Commission for Development Planning
PTC            Post and Telecommunications Corporation
RSA      =    Republic of South Africa
RTC            Road Traffic Commissioner
SIDA     5    Swedish International Development Authority
Tazara         Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
TCC      -    Transport Coordination Committee
UZR      =    Unitary Railway System
ZA       =    Zambia Airways Corporation
ZLXCO    =    Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Limited
ZR       =    Zambia Railways
ZTRS           Zambia-Tanzania Road Services
FISCAL YEAR
ZR:   April 1 - March 31
GRZ: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency: Zambia Railways Limited
Amount:           SDR 20.5 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
On-Lending
Terms:            The credit would be on-lent to Zambia Railways for 20
years, including 5 years grace, with a fixed interest
rate of 12 percent per annum.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would improve the operational
efficiency of Zambia's railway system by providing
materials, replacement equipment and machinery and spare
parts for rehabilitation and maintenance. A radio
signalling and telecommunications system would be
installed to replace the outmoded 'open-wire- system and
some modern operations facilities would be provided.
Also included are technical assistance in critical
operational areas and for project implementation,
training and studies to improve efficiency. A limited
amount of new rolling stock would be supplied under the
project.
Benefits and
Risks:            The proposed project would increase the operating
efficiency of the railway in Zambia, thereby lowering the
cost of transporting goods within the country and to and
from the major parts handling the country's imports and
exports.  In addition to the general benefits derived
from greater efficiency, Zambia's goods would become more
competitive in foreign markets and thus the project would
contribute to the export diversification effort.
The physical and economic risks of the project are
minimal. Only the highest priority items are provided
and the emphasis is on maintaining, not expanding,
railway capacity, in line with Zambia's economic
prospects. There is little likelihood that traffic will
vary significantly from forecast levels and productivity
gains have been conservatively estimated. Institutional
and financial improvements may be slower than expected,
but close supervision and technical assistance should
minimize that risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc |
of their ufficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Estimated Cost
Local    Foreign    Total
--US$ Million 
A. Track                                        0.7        5.2        5.9
B. Signalling & Telecommunications              1.8        9.2       11.0
C. Rolling Stock                                1.9        7.6        9.5
D. Workshops and Equipment                     0.4         1.2        1.6
E. Spare Parts                                 3.4        21.1       24.5
F. Operations Facilities                        0.6        2.2        2.8
G. Training                                    0.7         2.7        3.4
H. Technical Assistance                         1.4        5.2        6.6
I. Total Without Contingencies                10.9        54.4      65.3
J. Price Contingencies                          5.4       12.4       17.8
GRAND TOTAL                                16.3        66.8      83.1
(of which taxes and duties)                (2.8)                 (2.8)
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
US$ million
IDA                                             -        20.0      20.0
AfDB                                            -        20.0       20.0
SIDA                                            -         5.2       5.0
USAID                                           -         5.0        5.0
Belgium                                         -         4.0       4.2
KfW                                             -         1.6        1.6
ZR                                            16.3       11.0      27.3
16.3      66.8       83.1
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit:
IDA FY            86          87           88           89
-  -   - US$ Million-
Annual            2.0        9.5           7.5          1.0
Cumulative        2.0       11.5          19.0         20.0            s
Rate of Return:                    Twenty-two percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:           Report No. 5256-ZA, dated March 5, 1985
Maps:                              IBRD 14252-Ri and 14253-RI.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC 0  ZAMBIA
FOR A FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 20.5 million (approximately US$20
million equivalent) on the standard terms to help finance a Fourth Railway
Project. The Credit would be on-lent to Zambia Railways Limited for 20
years, including five years grace, at an interest rate of 12 percent per
annum. Cofinancing is being provided by the African Development Bank
(AfDB), SIDA, USAID, Belgium and KFW.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. This part is
based on that report's findings. Country data sheets are attached as Annex
I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 40 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Copper mining provides over 90 percent of foreign exchange
earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Much economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a sharp decline in copper prices in 1975. Zambia's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1984, were 70 percent
below the average for the early 1970s. In 1982, and again in 1984, copper
prices reached their lowest level in real terms during the post-World War
II era. Real GDP has been in a general downward trend since 1975,
declining on an average by about one percent per year.  With population



- 2 -
growing by 3.3 percent per annum, real GDP per capita is 25 percent lower
than in 1974. GNP per capita was estimated at US$580 in 1983, using the
World Bank Atlas methodology, but is now much lower as a result of major
devaluations of the Kwacha in 1983 and 1984.
5.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82. The deficit was reduced sharply to 9 percent of GDP in
1983, however, and is expected to be in this range for 1984. Nevertheless,
the volume of imports has declined steadily and is now 75 percent below its
level in 1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe
underutilization of capacity and, especially in the mining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements which has
contributed directly to a declining trend in copper production and
exports. The large current account deficits led to heavy external
borrowing, accumulation of arrears on import payments, and a draw-down of
international reserves.  At the end of 1983, Zambia's total external
liabilities stood at US$4.2 billion, including drawings from the TMF (about
US$650 million) and about US$500 million in overdue commercial payments.
By comparison, merchandise exports amounted to somewhat over US$1 billion.
6.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976.
Deficit financing absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and
contributed to a sharp rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per
annum during 1976-78 and 12 percent per annum in 1979-82. Price increases
have accelerated in 1983 and 1984 to about 20 percent per annum, reflecting
the decontrol of prices in December 1982 ard the devaluations of the Kwacha
during the past two years.
7.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, other factors over which the Government has littl or no control
include transport difficulties in neighboring countries on which Zambia is
dependent for the movement of foreign trade, severe droughts which for
three consecutive years have necessitated substantial food imports, and,
last but not least, the fact that copper mining in Zambia is past its peak,
and that for technical reasons, such as sinking deeper shafts and tapping
less rich ore bodies, higher costs have to be incurred to maintain past
levels of production.
8.        Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties.  The main
deficiencies in economic policies were that: vi) pricing and subsidy
policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of the agricultural
producer, depressing the latter's income and incentive to produce for the
market; also, controlled industrial prices led to low profitability in the
manufacturing sector and a decrease in resources available for
reinvestment; (ii) tax incentives and low interest rates led to a pattern
of capital intensive investment; (iii) exchange rate and tariff policies
have encouraged the -se of artificially cheap imported raw materials and



other inputs and discouraged the use of local materials. As a result, a
highly capital and import-intensive productive structure was created that
proved to be very vulnerable to prolonged declines in the availability of
foreign exchange. Also, little progress was made in developing the use of
local resources and diversifying production and exports.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
9.        Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In the long
run, therefore, the copper industry cannot be counted on to provide the
domestic and external resources required for development. In the absence
of policies and programs to develop new sources of income, employment and
foreign exchange, Zambia may expect a drastic fall in living standards and
social well-being by the turn of the century. However, Zambia has the
potential to develop alternative sources of income, employment, and
exports. The greatest potential is in agriculture, where there are
opportunities for import substitution (cotton, oilseeds, livestock, grains,
forestry products, and fish) and for exports (beef, cotton, coffee,
tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start is made with
agricultural development, possibilities will be created for agro-based
industries.
10.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that financial balance in the economy be restored
first. As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a
major role to play. However, it is essential that previous levels of
efficiency are restored to make the industry profitable again and
competitive in world markets. Without a rehabilitated copper industry, the
Government's diversification effort would fail for lack of financial
resources. For this reason, the Bank recently approved an Export
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project which aims to increase the
efficiency of the mining industry and make it competitive again by
international standards. This project was also accompanied by appropriate
macro-economic and sector policy changes aimed at restructuring and
diversifying the rest of the economy in order to create the conditions for
developing new sources of income, exports and employment.
.9        11.        The Government, with Bank assistance, has developed a package of
policies and measures to bring about better economic management and a
policy environment conducive to healthy economic growth and
diversification. The Government's economic restructuring policies may be
summarized as follows:
- Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which prices are
responsive to market forces;
- Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops. The National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMBOARD), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,



-4-
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;
- Improving planning and budgetary procedures to shift resources
to productive investment.
- Using wages and interest rate policies to reverse
past trends of increasing consumption and declining
investment;
- Improving the management of foreign debt;
- Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil; and
- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy.
12.       In the past two years, the Government has made commendable
progress in translating the above policies into tangible action. It has
introduced institutional reforms to improve economic management and has
introduced a number of changes in economic policies which constitute the
beginning of an integrated program of short-term financial stabilization
and longer-term growth and diversification. It is a program in which
actions developed in cooperation with the IMF and the Bank complement and
reinforce one another.
13.       A program to restore financial stability was set in motion in
1983. A one-year Stand-by arrangement was agreed with the IMF, and a debt
rescheduling agreement was reached with the members of the Paris Club. As
part of the IMF program, the Kwacha was devalued by 20 percent in January
1983, and, in July 1983, the value of the Kwacha was linked to a variable
basket of currencies. Since then, the Government has adjusted the exchange
rate in a gradual manner such that it is now more than 50 percent lower
than at the end of 1982.  Because the Government has been successful in
holding wage increases to considerably less than rises in the cost of
living, it has maintained the benefits of devaluation in real terms, which
has improved the competitiveness of exports. Further measures taken under
the IMF program included increases in interest rates and tough budgetary
measures (including reductions in subsidies and a cap on new government
employment) aimed at reducing the Government's domestic borrowing. The
program succeeded in reducing the current account deficit to less than 10
percent of GDP and domestic bank borrowing by the Government to less than 2
percent of GDP. A follow-up standby arrangement was agreed with the IMF in
July 1984 and is currently being implemented, although with increasing
difficulty due to a further decline in the copper price during 1984 (para.
4). Maturities due to Paris Club members in 1984 have been rescheduled as
part of the current IMF program.



14.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. Other recent measures with significant long-term impact are
real increases in producer prices for agricultural crops, freer marketing
arrangements for the livestock sector and complete decontrol of most
industrial prices. Over the last three years, producer prices for most
agricultural crops have been increased considerably in real terms. This
has already led to a significant increase in the area under cultivation.
If it had not been for the severe droughts in the region, this would have
led to substantial increases in production. In a further attempt to allow
market forces to play a more important role in the economy, the Government
abolished, in December 1982, the control of all industrial prices (except
for three essential commodities: wheat flour, maize flour and candles).
Since then, prices for a wide range of commodities have increased, thereby
helping to restrain domestic demand, while increasing the profitability of
firms. Most recently, the price of wheat flour and bread has also been
decontrolled.
15.       As part of its economic recovery plans, the Government presented
a three-year expenditure program to the Consultative Group for Zambia in
May 1984. The Consultative Group strongly endorsed the Government's new
policy initiatives, as well as its expenditure program which emphasizes
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, increased capacity utilization
and selected investments to diversify the economy, especially in
agriculture. As a result, the Group indicated that its members are
prepared to increase their assistance to Zambia. In addition, various
members indicated that in view of Zambia's serious financial position, they
are converting their assistance programs to a grant basis and are prepared
to make assistance available in the form of quickly disbursing loans and
grants.
16.       The Government and the Bank continue to cooperate in the further
development of policies and measures that would lead to diversification of
production and exports. In the foreseeable future, this may lead to sector
lending for industry through which the Government and the Bank are expected
to agree on further actions of economic reform, covering such subjects as
tariff policies, export incentives, investment criteria and improvements in
the management of public enterprises.
Creditworthiness
17.       Over the past two years the Government has taken important
measures towards financial stabilization and implementing a program of
economic restructuring. More needs to be done, but there are encouraging
signs that the Government is committed to take further appropriate action.
There is, however, reason for considerable concern about Zambia's capacity
to service new loans on conventional terms. At today's copper prices,
scheduled service on existing external debt will remain at about 40 percent
of export earnings for the next three years. In addition, considerable
payments are due to the IMF, and it would be desireable to reduce Zambia's
pipeline of commercial payment arrears and short-term borrowings. Even
with an expected increase in the price of copper, Zambia will continue to



- 6 -
experience grave difficulties in meeting its debt-service obligations. For
a number of years it will be necessary for the government to continue its
financial stabilization policies in cooperation with the IMF, to seek
relief through further debt rescheduling, and, in addition, to obtain a
significant increase in the proportion of quickly disbursing assistance
from external sources. In the meantime, the Government should avoid as
much as possible borrowing on commercial terms, and additional borrowing
should carry sufficiently long grace periods and maturities.
18.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government has made a promising start
and is fully committed to take further steps towards economic reform.
Assuming successful economic policies, careful financial management and an
improving world economy, Zambia's debt service ratio could decline to about
20 percent in ten to twelve years.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
19.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 11 credits to
Zambia, totalling about U$730 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and five
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation.  In agriculture and forestry, six loans and
four credits have been for industrial forest plantations, livestock,
commercial crops, iategrated family farming, coffee production and
smallholder dairy development.  Agricultural projects in the Eastern and
Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have
assisted Zambia's urban development program, copper mining and, through the
Development of Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and
industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the
Government improve its planning and pro,ect preparation.
20.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$67 million in nine projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one each in
the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production, textiles and copper
production. The latest IFC investment was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 31, 1983. This investment (US$18.7 million equivalent, of
which US$7.5 million is for IFC's own account) is helping to finance an
expansion and rehabilitation of the Inter-Continental Hotel in Lusaka and
rehabilitation of the Musi-o-Tunya Hotel in Livingstone.
21.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been



experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by
the Bank loan. Most seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for the lagging
implementation of projects are ineffective project management and
inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
Third Highway Project.
22.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the period FY77-81, the
disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over 25
percent per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or the
21.5 percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7
percent) and for the Bank o0erall (20.8 percent). To alleviate the
problem, provision is being mnade for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA makes advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and when the funds should be made
available are being prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their
need to allow implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan
for these expenditures. As of December 1983, IBRD loans disbursed and
outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's total medium and long-term
debt disbursed and outstanding.
23.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase economic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources to
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, such as the recently-approved Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project and the upcoming Industr.al Reorientation Project
will focus on improving sector policies in agriculture and industry, which
are, respectively, the sectors with the best potential for production and
export growth and for employment creation. The Group's strategy also gives
priority to programs to increase the use of indigenous energy resources and
to raise the efficiency of transportation services. Emphasis will be given



- 8 -
to rehabilitation and maintenance, rather than expansion, of infrastructure
and Bank Group assistance is expected to include a significant proportion
of quick-disbursing resources. Support for addressing the longer term
development constraints, e.g., improving economic management, education,
population, health, etc., is also part of the strategy. Policy and
institutional reform programs in each of the sectors, as well as on the
macroeconomic level, are being agreed with the Government.
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Structure and Traffic Demand
24.       Zambia's transport system comprises about 35,000 km. of roads,
2,000 km. of railway, 150 airports and a 1,700 km. oil pipeline from
Dar-es-Salaam to the Indeni Oil Refinery at Ndola. Most of Zambia's
external traffic is carried by rail, as is the internal bulk traffic such
as coal, minerals and agricultural inputs (fertilizer) and output. Road
transport handles most internal intermediate and consumer goods traffic.
Both modes carry agricultural inputs and outputs during the short
agricultural season, but basically the two are not in competition with each
other for 90 percent of the freight traffic. Air freight of export items,
while having increased rapidly in the past few years, is a very small
portion of the total freight carried and is likely to stay that way.
25.       Zambia's economy is highly trade-dependent and therefore a
relatively high proportion of freight carried relates to external trade.
Two evacuation routes carry this trade. The most important of these
volume-wise is the eastern route via the port at Dar-es-Salaam which
handles most of the country's export trade, especially its copper exports.
The southern route through Zimbabwe and the port at East London, South
Africa carries much of Zambia's import trade. Both road and rail carry
freight along these routes, however to a large extent they serve different
demands. Although the port at Dar-es-Salaam often entails delays (with
associated costs). it is still more expensive to ship via the much longer
southern route. This, together with the fact that Zambia's import trade is
originating increasingly from the south, indicates that the existing
freight traffic patterns are likely to remain, for the foreseeable future,
as they are today. Internal freight (and passenger) traffic is
concentrated in a narrow, densely populated, corridor running from
Livingstone in the south through Lusaka to Ndola in the northern copperbelt
region.  Both road and rail serve this corridor.
26.       Freight traffic in Zambia is determined by the overall level of
economic activity and by developments in the country's trade patterns.
With the economy expected to grow only modestly (2 - 2.5 percent per annum
at best) over the next several years, the growth in freight traffic is
forecast to be likewise limited. Trade patterns are expected to evolve
slowly during this period, as a result of the emphasis currently being
given to diversification of the economy away from copper, with agricultural
and industrial exports increasing proportionately. For the next several



years, therefore, the existing capacities for hauling freight should
suffice to handle the growth in traffic and to allow for variations in the
nature of freight hauled. Consequently, investments in the sector should
stress maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing transport
infrastructure (including the Tazara rail link to Dar-es-Salaam, which is
jointly owned and operated by Tanzania and Zambia), rather than any
extension of the network, unless clearly justified economically.
27.       By the turn of the century, the type of freight and the transport
services required will have changed substantially. Zambia's economically
exploitable copper resources will be largely exhausted in 15-17 years
at current production rates, and output will decline sharply at that time.
Concommitantly, the need for transport of copper will decline similarly.
If the current drive to diversify exports is successful, a significant part
of this trade will be replaced. It is unlikely that non-traditional
exports will grow sufficiently to offset fully the drop-off in copper
exports, however, and, of course, the nature of the transport services
needed at that time will be significantly different. Another factor to be
considered in attempting to forecast the demand for freight services is the
country's parallel efforts to lower the present high dependence on
imports. By the year 2000, therefore, the structure of the transport
sector will have to have undergone major adjustment. Planning for these
adjustments should be initiated without further delay, and the proposed
project would initiate steps to improve transport sector policy and
planning.
Transport Policy and Planning
28.       Transport sector objectives and strategies are not clearly
defined and articulated in Zambia. As a consequence, sector policies and
expenditure programs are not well-directed towards providing the most
efficient and low cost services required. Nor is there adequate planning
and forecasting to permit smooth adjustment to the changing needs of the
economy for transport services. The relative roles of the private and
public transport entities ar not well-defined. Because of the relatively
high proportion of product costs represented by transport services
resulting from Zambia's landlocked status, distance from major
international markets, etc., it is particularly important that cost of
these services be kept as low as possible, especially when there is an
overriding need to compete effectively in foreign markets as there is in
Zambia's case.
29.       In the past, the country's concern has been to encourage the
development of alternatives to the evacuation routes through Tanzania and
the south. While understandable, this policy has led to a higher level of
capital investment on both the rail and road systems than otherwise may
have been necessary with a resulting loss of efficiency in the sector.
Highway maintenance and rehabilitation suffered because of the large
proportion of increasingly scarce foreign exchange and domestic resources
being devoted to capital investment aud in recent years the operable
capacity of the sector has been fdlling. This policy was reversed in 1983
and 1984 when mainter.ance expenditure was increased in both absolute and



- 10 -
relative terms vis-a-vis capital expenditures, and further such relative
increases are expected in 1985 and beyond.
30.       The absence of transport planning reflects in part a lack of
clearly designated responsibility for such planning. It also reflects a
lack of adequately trained staff, particularly as regards analytical
capability in the field of transport econoluy. Nominal responsibility for
planning and policy formulation lies with the Ministry of Power, Transport
and Communications (MPTC), however the Ministry is not adequately staffed
for this purpose. At the same time, the main transport parastatals come
under the responsibility of the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
(ZIMCO) and many critical investment and expenditure decisions are made at
high government levels outside MPTC, many of which are executed by the
parastatals or the Ministry of Works and Supply (MWS).
31.       Some scope for a coordinated approach to transport investment and
policy seemed to be offered, until recently, by the National Commission for
Development Planning (NCDP). It was (and is) the seat of a Transport
Coordination Committee (TCC) with representation from MPTC, NCDP, MWS, the
transport parastatals, and other ministries concerned with transport (e.g.,
agriculture). However, the TCC has seldom met and has exercised
practically no influence over the sector.
32.       Effective transport sector objective setting, strategy
formulation, planning and policymaking require the presence within the
governmental structure of an organization with the capability to undertake
the necessary analytical work and carry out these functions. It also
requires qualified staff and technical assistance. The Government has
undertaken to reorganize and strengthen the Planning Unit in MPTC with a
view to improving its capability for effective planning. Agreement by the
Association on the terms of reference for the Unit, including manpower
requirements, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(d), Draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government expects to
obtain technical and training assistance for strengthening the Unit from
bilateral aid sources.
Zambia Railways
Organization, Management and Staff
34.       Zambia Railways Limited (ZR) is a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIf4CO) and is headed by a
managing director. Its operations are divided into three regions. Each
regional manager reports to the managing director, who is assisted by two
assistant managing directors. The railway is predominantly organized along
functional lines. The total staff numbers about 8,000 of whom 22 are
expatriates holding specialized technical positions. The employment of
expatriates has been reduced from 50 in recent years as a result of the
company's training programs. Training has a high priority in ZR which has
a training center responsible for all internal and external training.



- 11 -
35.       ZR was incorporated by the Zambia Railways Act, on July 1, 1967,
to replace the Unitary System which was owned jointly and equally by Zambia
and Rhodesia. Effective January 1, 1979, the Government transferred
ownership of ZR to ZIMCO, a Government holding company. The necessary
legal formalities for effecting this transfer were not completed until
December 1983. At that time, ZR was incorporated as a company under the
Companies Act, which should result in more autonomy for ZR including less
control by the Government over tariff adjustments.
36.       ZR's managing director is appointed by ZIMCO and reports to a
board also largely appointed by ZIMCO. The Chairman of ZIMCO's Board is
the President of the Republic. One of the two divisional managers is in
charge of Operations, the other is in charge of Administration. Also
reporting to the managing director are three regional managers and the
heads of the following functions: Finance, Marketing, Public Relations,
Railway Police and Internal Auditing. Reporting to the assistant general
manager of Operations Department are the chiefs of the three Engineering
Departments: Mechanical, Civil, and Signalling and Telecommunications; the
chief of Transportation and the chief of Safety. Reporting to the
assistant general manager of the Administration Department are the managers
of Corporate Planning, Data Processing, Supplies, and Personnel, and the
Legal Counsel. The Training Section reports to the personnel manager.
37.       As noted earlier, considerable progress has been made in reducing
the number of expatriates employed by the Company through the training of
local staff. With the training provided under the proposed project, ZR is
expected to become fully Zambianized in the next five years. Further
training in some technical skills will be required during this period, as
will continued operational support in some functional areas. Consequently,
expatriate support will still be required for fixed terms to fill specific
technical and managerial positions until the necessary training is
completed. Additional assistance will be required for project
implementation and operational advisory services (10 expatriates) and for
studies of the means by which long-term improvements in the effeciency of
railway services can be achieved and transport sector planning improved (3
expatriates). The 13 added expatriates employed will be on fixed term
contracts and will carry out activities directly related to the proposed
project. A Project Coordinator is required for project planning,
coordination and follow-up, as well as for advising the managing director
on a number of project matters. Two technicians, one with experience in
the mechanical work on diesel electric lomotives and one with experience on
the electrical work of these locomotives, are required. In addition, ZR
will require the services of systems analyst and programmners with
experience in similar systems, and finally expatriates specialists will be
needed to carry out the studies referred to above.
Track
38.       ZR operates 1,273 km of single track, of which 848 km
(Nkana/Kitwa - Victoria Falls Bridge) are on the main line and 425 km are
branch lines. ZR also operates, on behalf of the Government, a 163 km line
between Livingstone and Mulobezi in south-west Zambia. The line,



- 12 -
openned in 1930 for the evacuation of sleeper timber, now has a traffic
volume of 1,000 passengers per week and one freight train. In operating
this line, incurs annually a deficit of K700,000 which is covered by a
Government grant. The Government has considered several possible ways of
ending this subsidy, includiag ZR's proposal to close the line.
Government, however, has decided that ZR should continue to operate the
line and carry out necessary track rehabilitation. In return, ZR will be
allowed to introduce a special (higher) tariff for the line during project
implementation and thereafter apply the same criteria to freight and
passenger tariffs as to the rest of the system. This arrangement is
satisfactory to the Association. It will be continued in a Government
policy statement which will be submitted to the Association as a condition
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c), Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Manpower Development and Training
39.       ZR staff are generally well qualified.  However, some weaknesses
exist which will be addressed by provision of technical assistance and
training under the proposed project. Areas of concern are the corporate
planning and the related information system required for follow-up of the
operational performance. Manpower development and training is considered a
priority within ZR. A manpower study was carried out recently with the
purpose of identifying ZR's manpower and training needs. ZR is
establishing a manpower development unit within the Personnel Department to
continuously monitor its manpower requirements. This new unit will work
closely with the ZR training center to implement training courses as
required.
40.       The training center is responsible for all training programs
including external courses. At present, training programs offered in the
center comprise training of artisans, technicians, operational staff,
supervisors and managers. Facilities in the training center are adequate
except for the main workshop which needs rehabilitation and new equipment.
Tle center, which employs about 50 instructors, is overstaffed. Training
programs and courses need to be reviewed and revised in most cases, and
links between on-the-job and other training require strengthening.
Freight Traffic
41.       ZR's total traffic has fluctuated between 4.5 and 5.1 million
tonnes since 1977 with, however, an increase in tonne-kilometers from an
estimated 1.26 billion in 1977 to 1.56 billion in FY82 and 1.40 billion in
FY83. The increase in average haul resulted from the reopening of the
southern route through Zimbabwe in 1979 and from the increased importance
of international transit traffic (from 30 percent of the total in 1977 to
35 percent in FY82 and FY83).
42.       The distribution of traffic in the future is unlikely to change
significantly from that of the last two years, unless there are political
developments which again close the borders of neighboring countries. The
only categories of freight traffic likely to grow, in the absence of an
unexpected rapid recovery in economic activity, are agricultural inputs and



- 13 -
outputs and coal. Maamba colliery's production of coal is likely to
expand significantly as a result of the rehabilitation program planned for
the mine. The increased output is likely to be absorbed by the
rehabilitated Kafue fertilizer plant and possibly by the substitution of
coal for oil In mining. With virtually static traffic in other area3,
aggregate traffic is forecast to increase in tonnage by only 8 percent to
13 percent between 1983 and 1989 and a by a further 5 percent by 1994.
Recent traffic volumes and forecasts are summarized below.
ZR Traffic
(000 tonnes; m. tkm)
Actual                   Forecast
1977 1980!81 1981/82 1982/83  1988/89       1993/94
High  Low   High  Low
Domestic (tonnes)       3359  2699    3295    2957   3417 3275   3565 3415
(tkm)          713   542      674      634    741  707    846  741
Export   (tonnes)        532    518    543      546    540  540    600  540
(tkm)           93    191    188       202    200  200    232  200
Import   (tonnes)        402    543    656      513    570  570    630  570
(tkm)           63    175    217       164    183  183    202  183
Transit  (tonnes)        490    713    591      499    600  500    600  600
(tkm)          396    576    477       403    485  404    485  485
Total    (Tonnes)       4783   4475   5085    4516   5125 4885   5395 5125
(tkm)         1265   1484   1556    1403   1610 1495   1765 1610
Passenger Traffic
43.       Rail traffic has grown by about eight percent p.a. since 1976.
Tariff increases appear to have had little effect on the growth of this
traffic. Rather, the main determinant appears to have been the decline in
the standard of living in Zambia since that time, which has resulted in a
relative decline in car ownership and a shift to rail for travel along the
north-south corridor.
Financial Performance
44.       After recording profits from 1976 to 1980, ZR'c financial
situation deteriorated sharply during the period 1981-84 (April 1-March 31
fiscal year), with losses increasing steadily from K6.0 million to K19.1



- 14 -
million. The major reason for this deterioration has been the lack of
timely approval of tariff increases by the Government. All tariffs are
based on costs and the intention is that no goods are to be carried at less
than total cost. Costs have out-distanced tariffs in recent years,
however, adversely affecting ZR's liquidity and current ratio, which
declined from 2.5 in FY80 to 0.8 in FY84. ZR introduced a financial
recovery program in FY84 that included cost saving measures and tariff
increases, but the major tariff hikes came only in April, 1984 (FY85), too
late to improve the FY84 financial picture. These increases are expected
to have a significant impact on FY85 results however. In addition the
company's financial position is being further buttressed by a 20 percent
increase in freight and passenger tariffs effective April 1, 1985.
45.       As noted earlier, no major increases in freight traffic are
anticipated over the next several years. However, to produce an operating
profit and create a cash flow sufficient to cover working expenses, debt
service requirements and 20 percent of total investment, further real
tariff increases of 20 percent on freight traffic and 25 percent on
passenger traffic will be required next year. Also, the present
debt/equity structure places too heavy a burden on the company's cash
requirements. Agreement was reached at negotiations that ZIMCO would take
measures to enable ZR to adjust its tariffs to enable ZR to meet its
obligations under the project (Section 5.02(a), Draft Joint Project
Agreement) and that capitalization of Kwacha 138.0 million owed the
Government by Zambia Railways would be approved by June 30, 1985 (Section
5.02(b), Draft Joint Project Agreement). In addition, a schedule for
further tariff increases was agreed at negotiations.
46.       The Third Railway Project called for an eight percent return on
net fixed assets in use commencing FY81. This objective was not attained
for a number of reasons, including the effects of the recession in Zambia,
the slow growth in freight traffic and accelerating inflation. Freight and
passenger tariffs were not increased in a timely fashion during this
period. In part this was due to the fact that because of the long delay in
fiaalizing the company's financial statements, it has not been possible for
ZR, ZDMCO and the Government to respond quickly with the tariff increases
required to achieve the covenanted rate of return. Moreover, in view of
the company's adverse liquidity position, the emphasis during the
implementation period should be on attaining a satisfactory cash flow. It
was agreed during negotiations that the covenant be changed to a                        U
requirement that ZR, GRZ and ZIMCO take all measures necessary to achieve
revenues sufficient to cover all wcrking expenses (before depreciation),
taxes, debt service charges of principal and interest, and 20 percent of
the total costs of the investment program (Section 5.03(a), Draft Joint
Project Agreement).
47.       In order to safeguard ZR's cash flow, ZR would be required to
obtain the approval of the Association whenever investments beyond those
included in the proposed project are estimated to exceed US$2.0 million
equivalent in any one year (Section 4.03, Draft Joint Project Agreement).
Also, ZR would be asked to agree not to incur any debt if its operating
surplus for the fiscal year or the 12 consecutive months immediately before



- 15 -
the date of occurrence, whicheve. Is greater, would be less than 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirements of any succeeding fiscal year
(Section 4.04(a), Draft Joint Project Agreement).
48.       When required, ZIMCO, the holding company, issues a certificate
to the auditors that for the following year, it will provide or arrange the
necessary finance as and when required by ZR to maintain the operations of
the Railways at least at its present level. This agreement was confirmed
during negotiations (Section 5.01, Draft Joint Project Agreement).
Past Bank Group Activities in the Sector
49.       The Bank Group has supported six projects in the transport sector
in Zambia: three for the railway subsector for a total of US$63.5 million
and three for the highway subsector for a total of US$50.7 million. The
last two projects, one each in the highway and railway subsectors, are
still ongoing. With the exception of the most recent highway project which
has suffered from shortages of counterpart funding, the implementation of
these projects has been satisfactory and their objectives have been largely
met. The First and Second Railway projects concentrated on the provision
of workshop equipment and rolling stock and on track improvement. The
Third Railway project continued assistance in these areas but in addition
focussed on improving communications and the upgrading of skills through
training and technical assistance. While the operational objectives of the
third project will be generally met, the recession in Zambia has affected
ZR's financial situation and the rate of return targets may not be
achieved. The on-going project has been successful in improving ZR
institutionally due to its heavy emphasis on technical assistance and
training. The proposed fourth railway project continues this effort by
extending technical assistance and training in key areas needing further
improvement, while at the same time improving the availability of rolling
stock and the communications system.
PART IV.  THE PROJECT
Introduction
*         50.       The proposed project is a continuation of the Third Railway
Project (Loan 1790-ZA/Credit 973-ZA) and extends the rehabilitation and
maintenance programs initiated under the earlier project. It was
Identified in February 1983 and appraised in February 1984. Negotiations
took place in Washington, D.C., from January 23 to January 25, 1985. The
Zambian Delegation was led by Mr. G.A. Zaza, Senior Under-Secretary,
Ministry of Finance. A Credit and Project Summary is presented at the
beginning of this report and Supplementary Project Data Sheet is in Annex
III.



- 16 -
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The purpose of the proposed project is to improve the operational
efficiency of the railway. It would do so by providing for the replacement
of life-expired equipment and machinery, by providing materials and spare
parts for maintenance of equipment and facilities and by providing modern
operational facilities. The project also contains studies designed to
improve efficiency, support for ZR's training programs and technical
assistance in specific areas crucial to effective operations and for
project implementation. Details of the various components are described in
the following paragraphs.
52.       Track Rehabilitation - The rail is heavily worn on curves on many
sections of the mainline and a large proportion of the sleepers are worn
out. In addition, the branch line from Kitwe to Chingola requires
extensive maintenance. Because of the poor track condition, speed
restrictions are in effect for many sections of the track and in some cases
the trains have to stop before entering certain sections. Despite these
restrictions, derailments occur frequently. The Project provides for
improvements to these sections, including the replacement of about 15 km.
of track and 80,000 sleepers. Track maintenance equipment and spare parts
are also included.
53.       Signalling and Telecommunications -  The open-wire pole system
supporting the signalling and telecommunications system is outdated and
lacks sufficient capacity for the railways' needs, particularly since it
must also support data circuits. It is unreliable, subject to vandalism
and theft, and requires major rehabilitation to remain in use. Investment
in its rehabilitation would make little significant improvement in its
reliability and the increased demand for signalling and telecomaunications
capacity cannot be economically met by an open-wire system. Consequently,
the project provides for replacement of this system by radio
communications, plus maintenance spare parts and improved maintenance
facilities.
54.       Locomotives and Rolling Stock - Provided there is improved
locomotive availability, reliability and utilization, the existing fleet of
locomotives is sufficient to meet the estimated traffic demand for the next
five years. The fleet is relatively new, with about half of the 76
operable and repairable locomotives having a further ten years of
serviceable life.  Some, however, suffer from deferred major maintenance
due to lack of foreign exchange for replacement parts and will require
major overhaul. An overhaul program will be initiated under the proposed
Project.
55.       ZR operates some 6,300 wagons, of which 2,800 belong to the
Unitary Railway System, and cannot be used outside Zambia. In addition,
about 1,500 are from other countries. About 1,000 wagons should be
scrapped during the project period. However, as a result of actions to be
taken to improve availability and utilization, an adequate total supply of
wagon capacity can be maintained with the purchase of 170 new units. These
are provided for in the proposed Project, as are 24 new brake-vans which
are required.



- 17 -
56.       Workshops and Equipment -  The workshop at Kabwe requires
replacement machinery to efficiently maintain ZR's equipment. This would
be provided in the proposed project.
57.       Spare Parts -  Spare parts are required to increase ZR's
locomotive availability from the present 62 percent to an expected 1987
level of 75 percent. In addition, each locomotive will require spare parts
for about US$39,000 annually to maintain the availability at 75 percent.
Spare parts are also required for maintenance of wagons and other transport
equipment. Based on a maintenance program prepared by ZR, the total three
year foreign exchange requirement for spare parts is estimated at US$21.1
million, for which funds are included in the proposed project.
58.       Operations Facilities -  For improved equipment utilization, ZR
will require a modern wagon control system and a system for production
planning and control connected to the new data processing facilities
provided for in the Third Railway Project. These systems, plus some needed
software would be provided under the proposed project.
59.       Training -  A manpower study was carried out under the ongoing
project with the purpose of identifying ZR's manpower needs and related
training on which the training program has been based. The proposed
project provides for repair and rehabilitation of the training workshop,
workshop equipment tools, technical assistance for meeting training
objectives and fellowship training.
60.       Technical Assistance and Studies -  At present, 22 of ZR's
employees are expatriates. ZR will retain its expatriate staff during the
pro ect period and require additional assistance for project
implementation. In total, the proposed project would provide for 586
man-months of technical assistance.
61.       The proposed project will also include funds to study means by
which long-term improvements in the efficiency of railway services can be
achieved. This would require about 108 man-months of technical assistance.
Estimated Cost and Financing
62.       Estimated Costs - The total project cost is estimated at US$83.1
million (including taxes and duties), consisting of US$5.6 million for
track rehabilitation, US$10.4 million for signalling and
telecommunications, US$9.1 million for rolling stock, US$1.5 million for
workshops and equipment, US$23.2 million for spare parts, US$2.7 million
for operating facilities, US$3.4 million training and US$6.6 million for
technical assistance. Price contingencies are provided for local costs at
15 percent for 1985 and 1986 and 10 percent thereafter and for foreign
costs at 8 percent for 1985 and 9 percent thereafter. The foreign exchange
costs are estimated at US$66.8 million. The project would be implemented
over a period of four years.



- 18 -
63.       Financing Arrangements -  IDA would provide US$20 million,
equivalent to about 30 percent of the estimated foreign exchange cost. The
Federal Republic of Germany is expected to cofinance US$1.6 million,
Belgium US$4.0 million, SIDA US$5.2 million, USAID US$5.0 million, AfDB
US$20.0 million, and ZR US$27.3 million. Fulfillment of conditions of
disbursement of USAID financing would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Interest in cofinancing the project has also been expressed by the OPEC
Fund. If this cofinancing materializes, ZR's contribution to project
financing will be reduced accordingly. The Association's funds would be
on-lent to ZR at 12 percent interest with repayment over 20 years with 5
years grace (Section 3.01(b), Draft Development Credit Agreement). The
execution uf a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GRZ and ZR would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a), Draft Development
Credit Agreement). The foreign exchange risk would be borne by ZR.
Implementation
64.       The proposed project would be implemented by Zambia Railways.  ZR
has considerable experience in operating the railway and in implementing
projects financed by the Association so no major difficulties are
envisaged. Nonetheless, ZR will require the assistance of a project
Coordinator (18 man-months), two full-time mechanical technicians (72
man-months), and systems analysts and programmers with experience in
production planning control (108 man-months) and wagon monitoring control
(160 man-months). In addition, 216 man-months of advisory and operational
assistance will be needed. This includes three expatriate engineers
assisting the Chief Civil Engineer, a Chief Mechanical Engineer with three
expatriate technicians assisting him and a Chief Signal and
Telecoumunications engineer. Except for the position of Chief Mechanical
Engineer, these positions would be fully Zambianized upon project
completion.
Procurement and Disbursements
65.       Procurement -  Goods and services to be financed by che proposed
credit would be procurred by ICB in accordance with the Association's
guidelines.  An exception to the above would be made (i) in cases where the
borrower can show to the Association's satisfaction that the items required
are clearly established manufacturers parts, in which case they may be
obtained directly from the original suppliers through negotiated contracts
(Part C(1), Schedule 1, Draft Joint Project Agreement); and (ii) where
small orders are under US$100,000 each, up to a maximum of US$1.0 million
in total, for which limited international bidding through obtaining at
least three price quotations will be applied (Part C(2), Schedule 1, Draft
Joint Project Agreement). Goods financed by co-donors will be procured in
accordance with procedures of the respective agencies. All documentation
for equipment procurement under ICB and financed by IDA will be subject to
IDA review prior to issuance of tenders (Part D, Schedule 1, Draft Joint
Project Agreement). Eligible domestic bidders would be afforded a



- 19 -
preference of 15 percent or applicable duty whichever is lower under ICB
procurement (Part B, Schedule 1, Draft Joint Project Agreement).
Procurement arrangements are summarized below.
US $ (Million)
PROCUREMENT METHOD         TOTAL
_____________________________ COST
Project Element                 ICB   LCB  LIE    Other  N/A
A. Track Material                      -     -    -        -     -    6.25
C-)   (-)  C-)     (-)   C-)   (-)
B. Signalling & Telecommunications    -      -    -      11.14   -   11.14
(-)   C-)  C-)     C-)   C-)   C-)
C. Rolling Stock                       -     -    -       9.22   -    9.22
C-)   C-)  C-)     (-)   C-)   C-)
D. Workshop Equipment                 1.00   -    -       0.44   -    1.44
(1.00) C-)  (-)     (-)   C-)  (1.00)
E. Spare Parts                        5.33   -   1.00   19.70   -   26.03
(5.33)  -  (1.00)   C-)   C-)  (6.33)
F. Operations Facilities                     -    -       2.70   -    2.70
C-)    -    -     (2.70)  -   (2.70)
C. Training                           0.85   -    -       2.64   -    3.49
(0.85)  -    -     (2.64)  -   (3.49)
H. Technical Assistance                -     -    -       6.48   -    6.48
C-)   C-)  (-)    (6.48) C-)  (6.48)
TOTAL                                 7.18   -   1.00   58.57   -   66.75
(7.18) (-) (1.00) (11.82) C-) (20.00)
Note: Figures within brackets show the IDA-financing.
66.       Disbursements -  Disbursements would be fully documented, except
for disbursements under contracts of less than US$20,000 which would be
made against statements of expenditure. The IDA credit would finance 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 75 percent of local expenditures for
equipment, materials, spare parts and services locally procured and 100
a         percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and training.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
67.       ZR would maintain separate records and accounts for all
activities related to the financing of items under the proposed project.
The accounts and financial statements would be audited by auditors
acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA not later than six months following
the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 (a and b), draft Joint Project
Agreement and Section 4.01 (a) and (b), Draft Development Credit Agreement)
ZR will submit quarterly progress reports to IDA and, no later than six
months after the closing date, ZR will provide the Association vith a
Completion Report evaluating the operations, execution, costs and benefits
of the project.



- 20 -
Environmental Impact
68.       The proposed project would have no adverse environmental impact.
Benefits, Risks and Justification
69.       Benefits    The main benefits of the proposed project result from
the increased efficiency of the railway which would result in the avoidance
of traffic diversion to more costly road transport.
70.         The ERR on the total project lies between 21.8 and 24.3
percent, while on the individual components between 43.5 and 16.5 percent.
The lower benefits are expected on new equipment, where the lack of
dynamism in traffic growth will mean the benefits from improved
communications and equipment will take somewhat longer to materialize than
from the urgently needed rehabilition inputs. If the benefits were to
decline by 2 percent p.a., the ERR on the total project would fall to 20
percent. If, in addition, the costs would increase by 10 percent, the ERR
would drop to 17 percent. In either or both of these cases the ERR would
be acceptable.
71.       Risks -  The physical and economic risks of the project are
minimal. The project concentrates on thie highest priority items in ZRIs
investment program and the most cost-effective means of maintaining -ot
expanding-the railway's capacity to handle traffic on offer.  There is
little likelihood that traffic will not, on average, reach forecast levels
although fluctuations can be expected as in the past. Equally,
productivity improvements (reflected in availability and utilization of
capacity) have been forecast at a modest level. However, the institutional
and financial improvements could be slower than expected to materialize.
The technical assistance provided under the project would address these
risks.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Joint Project Agreement among the                I
Association, ZINCO and Zambia Railways and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) executioa of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 63); (b) fulfillment
of conditions of disbursement of USAID financing (para. 63); (c) terms of
reference for the MPTC Planning Unit (para. 32); and (d) policy statement
on operation of the Mulobezi line (para. 38).



- 21 -
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. 'lausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 4, 1985
.1



- 22-                                                  ANNEX I
T AIL t 8                                        Page  I of  5
z7WuR                  - B0CiAL IDICATORS DATA SHURT
ZMBIA                                RfiRRCE GROUPS (WElIGUD AVZRAGEZ  /.
msar                (OmST uCnT uTIuATK) A
1RIEXeT       MIDDLE INCO             IDL  INCO
19i0at    1970/b    ZSTIHATRLk.   LRtICA S. OF SAARA    N. AFRICA a KID EAST
Au  (ObUAND SQ. -a)
TOTAL                               752.6        732.6      752.8
AGRICULTUPAL                        397.4        399.5      401.6
orEMR CWITA (115)                      230.0        380.0      840.0              1112.9                  1149.6
motrcosuOnm MR  CAPITn
(IILOGtAIS Or OIL EQUIVAUNT)           ..        301.0      443.0               529.0                  622.1
S1011TI    MD VrML  TATrIJTCS
POPULATIONMID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1207.0        6159.0    6045.0
UURN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)         23.1         30.0       44.8                29.7                   *6.2
POPULATION ROJECTIoNS
POPdLATlON IN YAR 2000 (MILL)                              11.4
STATIONAkI POPULATION (MILL)                               37.0
POPULATION FUETUt 2.0
POPULATION DENSIn
PER SQ. Cl.                         4.3          5.5        7.8                55.8                    36.3
PrR SQ. MA. .GRti LAND              8.1         10.4       14.5               111.5                  4hl.7
POpULATION AGE SrRUCTURE (2)
0-14  RS                         45.0         46.1       47.4                45.C                    43.6
15-64 YRS                          52.5         51.4       50.0                51.7                   53.1
65 MD ABOVE                         2.5          2.5        2.6                 2.9                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
rOTAL                               Z.4          2.6        3.1                 2.8                     2.8
URBAN                               5.3          5.2        6.5                 5.2                    4.5
CRUDE UIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         5D.6         9.8       49.5                47.0                   40.4
CRUIDE DEATH RATE (PER THDUS)        24.4         20.1       15.5                15.2                   11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.4        3.6                 3.2                     2.8
PANELY PLANNINC
ACCEPTOS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 o0 HARRIED   EN)            ..           ..         ..                  ..                   22.2
nap m amirAne
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        99.0         96.0       87.0                91.6                   97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF REQUIREMENTS)       87.0         87.0       93.0                98.2                   110.8
PROTEINS (GRAMIS PER DAY)          58.0         58.0       56.0                56.7                   70.1
OF WICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         14_0         16.0       14.0 lc             17.0                   17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          38.0         29.0       20.0                18.7                   14.6
1AL
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.7         44.6       50.9                51.7                   57.5
INAT NORT. RATE (PM THOUS)          164_0        137.0      1OS0.               102.7                  101.5
ACCESS T0 SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                           37.0       42.0 Id             35_6                   59.7
LT- RA                                          70.0        6.07Td             54.1                   84.5
RURAL                                *-         22.0       L6.0 7d             27.3                   38.4
ACCESS TO EACRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF PoPULATION)
TOTAL                                           16.0       42.0 /d
URlAN                                ..         12.0       87.0 Id
RURAL                                *'         18.0       16.0 7-               ..                     ,,                            
POPULATION PER PHYSICIM            9540.0       8140.0    7670.0 /e           11948.3                 4345.1
POP. PER  SINC PERSON              992.0 If    23.0        1730.0 7e           2248.9                 1831.1
PoP. ER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             360.0        300D0      210.0 (e            986.9                  632.9
URBAN                             180.0 /f        ..      350.0 7j            368.7                  545.5
RURAL                             470.0 If        ..      240.0 A            4012.1                 2513.5
ADIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..           ..       31.0                 .'                    26.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                                            6.4
masN                                 ..           ..         .                   ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL      -                         .           2.6
URma. ..                                                                     ..
RURAL
ACCESS To ELECT. (Z OF DWELLIN6S)
TOTAL                                ----                    ''''4.
URBAN                              27.5           ..         ..                  ..                   77.7
RURAL                                _            ..         ..                  ..                   16.1



- 23 -                                          ANNME I
Page 2 of 5
T A * L I 34
ZAMBIA                 -  OCIAL INDICATO         it
ZAMBIA                                ReFRNC  GROUPS (WEIGHTD AVWURZB) .4j
IO8T                NHOBT UCENT UTINTK) o:
RCENT        MIDDLINCOS              MIDDLECO
l960&     1970&at    EBTIATEL    AnRICA S. DF A           N  AFRICA  MID EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIXARTI   TOTAL                   2.0         89.0       96.0                91.0                   S6.3
KALE                    31.0         99.0      102.0                90.5                   102.5
TIDAL!                  34.0         79.0       90.0                73.6                    73.6
SECONDRY: TOTAL                     2.0         13.0       16.0                17.4                    43.0
,,                             MULt                       3.0        17.0        21.0               23.7                     52.3
FEMALE                   1.0          8.0       11.0                16.8                    33.0
WOCATIOHL (2 or SECONDR)             27.8          3.2        2.3                 5.3                    10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            50.0         47.0       44.0 /              38.6                    30.3
SECONDARY                          14.0         22.0       22.0 7;             24.3                    23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)              28.5 /f      47.3       44.0                35.6                    43.5
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP          10.2         14.5       18.7 th             20.7                    17.8
3ADO1 RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          4.7         16.0       23.9               100.6                   138.8
TV RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP              ..          4.1       10.6                18.5                    46.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             5.0         13.7       19.9 to             17.2                    31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDAMCE/CAPITA        ..           ..        0.3 7ih             0.3                     1.7
TOTAL lABOR .URCE (TROUS)          1322.0       162L.0     2157.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   33.3         32.6       32.3                33.8                    10.8
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              79.0         73.0       67.0                57.1                    42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0          9.0       11.0                17.4                    27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.2         39.0       35.7                36.3                    26.2
MALE                               55.3         52.9       49.3                47.6                    46.4
FEMALE                             27.3         25.2       22.6                25.1                     5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2          1.2        1.4                 1.4                     1.8
-C  DISTRDDYlION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BS
HICHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS           33.7         23.0 /       .
RICHEST 201 OF HOUSEROLDS          58.2         63.0 7!    56.7 /h
LOWEST 201 Of HOUSEHOLDS            5.4          3.6 71     3.6 7h.
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.0         1O.1 71    11.1 76.k
iown TCT aOn
ESTIIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
UVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                 ..           ..      247.0               525.3                   274.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      168.0               Z49.0                   177.2
ESTIMTED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      126.0               477.4                   402.6
RURAL                                ..           ..       85.0               186.0                   284.9
ESTIMTED POP. BELSA ABSOLUTE
a                 POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBN                                 ..           ..       25.0
RURAL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
la  The group averqSee for each indirator are population-weighted arithmetIc ueanm.  Coverage of countries aong the
indLcators depends an availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unleas otherwise noted, 'Data for 196D' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Eatisate' between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1975; le 1979; /f 1963; tR 1978; lh 1976; i 1973.
JUNE. 1984



.. ... ......... ... ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~      -..2        a'   asF ..aa.Ia  .a
*   -a..s.aqat -,    ..a a.......
.. ....lLtaC....a
--a.-    -            -; ~~~~~~--- -l -Iaa
~~~~7.r  -r  -- -                                                                                                                 ct..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
- a.-. a..~~~~~~~~a..a.t ..as. aaaa! ~ ~ ~            ~            ~to..I
-...a....  aa.a.-qa       - .a-       ~      ~      ...... ..  ....   ....
In - ~   ~     2.2'P  lA*a4.-..aaa..a.;at ea aaaa...                                                   dliP aid6
P -4  0-4 I-N                                                                                                   1?-...L D.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wa.a.a. .l.a
a. 3-.a-~I~aa-a.i a--    -.-d..-f.s-l --I., ....di.a adas ..a.
-.-.                  .     .- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-a. .-                       -1.-a--   ..   -      .-t  ..L.a.a.;.
Ih                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    -pal-.4.d. .-4 a% . P a  T
in-.-....~~~~~. a.a.a.....T.Aai.-
P-  1 P- a...v .- -a            a.,a-                                   a-:.-.1 la
"Maa..   P    I   ..a.~a  -..    .  a-laaa-*a-- Pt I                                          .       -                 l.a i4--a a-.J .,.)v     
~~ada.P          fat.           .        ,..T       .     .1. a..: aaa4..                                  .-. aPPit
-- at.. 11 a...             .... -....... . ..aPa  ---  aa...  f...  ..F.-
Joa..a..a~,Iaa.ia4a                                                                                                           la ar.a                 a.ia-
IIP aaaa--Xa.a.a..aaa..a   .aa.a-a..-J                          a..                                            .-   .:-



- 25-
ANNE I
Pap 4 of 5
W<A
EXIC   nUC1~
Baqdation:       6.225 utllian (eid1983)
Q   per Capita: LE$580 (md1983)
-L AaJ1
Azunt             Sulre of (D  at           A^erF  Anrnai
(Mllica US$        (aret Marbet Pdcm             Grth (2)
lIdicator        at Current Prices)         Aperent            (at Constant 1970D Price)
1982        197    95    "       9    1970-75  1975-80  19808
Gross Dlaestic Prout        3,83)         100.0  lC0.0  100.0  100.0   3.0      0.9      1.3
Apioaslture                  520         10.7  13.0  14.2  13.6   2.7         0.5    -2.2
Mldg                         432         36.3  13.6  16.1  11.3   0.0        -3.0      4.3
Oduhr Indusst~y1             932         18.5  28.1  23.7  24.3   8.3        -0.2      1.2
Ser~ices                   1,946         34.5  45.3  46.0  50.8   3.2         0.4     0.3
Conmuuption                 3,631          54.6  79.0  81.4  94.8   3.4         0.0     3.7
Gene3s Irnjestment            6(48         28.4  40.5  2344  16.9   4.1    -16.9   -22.4
Eixports of (bods 6 NF       1,050         54.0  36.3  42.2  27.4   0.5        -3.5     0.4
lirports of (bodes & NFS    1,498          37.1  55.8  47.0  39.1  -1.2        -9.0   -18.5
Crosas Ibtnxstic SavngsNs      199         45.4  21.0  18.6   5.2  -9.9         0.0   -57.7
QWRT 9211ET FINAR#E           Genraol Government2        Central Goverunra!t (1982)
(KMx,)        Z of GP       ( K  In.)       % cf Gl
Qarrent Reneiptbs                                          878.7          24.7
3UrYent Eixpenditures                                     1,323.0          37.1
Orreant Surnplus                                           -44$4.3        -12.4
Capiftal !2iqwenditurems                                    3ao.2           8.9
RxternnlA Firnancing                                        192.9           5.4
KClEY, aSEDXrr and PRICES               197    1975   1980   1981   1982   19833
(Mi3llon K, Ebd PEriozd)
?Ixney and CQisi lIkxey                  356    493    907    979   1309   1398
Brkt Credit to. Qwra,.r                 -164    318   1355   1495   1983   2116
Bu Credit to Private Secstor4            137    393    505    765    905    985
(Perntag  of Ine 1smtr)
Morey and Qiasi 1Ioey as Z of GIP         28.1   31.3   30.1   28.4   36.7    n.a.
kIclesa3 PrieInde  (1966=100)5           116.4  188.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.0
knxual percetge dliange ia:
EIveal Price Ine                        2.5   16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.1
Bank Credit to Govrmn                  -4.8   4D6.9   20.8   10.3   32.7    6.7
Hank Credit tdo Private Sector4         25.0   17.0    4.6   51.4   18.3    a8.
1 )bmzfacturirig, construction, elcricity, gas and veter.
2 FEgues do not differ significantly fmn ~Central Gbvernmn".
3 Fad-Sptaer 1983.
4 icIdes parstatal organzations.                                                   EAlE
5 All domesticaly used goods.                                                      Sept. 1964



-26 -
ANNEX I
EPge 5 of 5
ZAMBIA
TRAE PAT4M1 AND CAPITAL FEJ
BANCE OF PA1fl                                                  M WCADIS  EXPCS 1982
1980   1981    1982    1983
(MUliaIs US$) (Est.)                            US$  ln.  Z
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,611   1,126   1,050   1,065    Copper                   843      90
lports of Coods, NES          1,795   1,608   1,499   1,130   GCbalt                     30       3
Resour  Gap (deficit =-)       -183   -482    -49       -65    Lead and Zic              30       3
All ot.er comadities    41        4
Factor Servics (nec)l          -321   -271   -238   -201          Total                 943   1TX0
Net Transfers2                 -144   -101      -30    -40                             -        -
Balacen  xren Acct oYmt        -69    -853   -716   -306
EEX3UI IEBMT, Dec. 31, 1982
Official Grants                  30      26      30      26
Dirert Foreign Investment        ..      ..    ..       ..                                    US$ mnm.
Net M1T Borrcurnxg              437    210    238    111    Rdilic Debt, irwl. guarantee  2,635.3
tisliirnszPnts        ~      624    400    334    15         Nriwrantened Private Debt
Anrt1zation                   187    190       96      47    Total  btstuLnding & Disbhwsed 2,635.3
Net IF                            8    367    -49        64
Extenml Payrant Arrears         136      53    186       14
Other Items (n.e.i.)             39    159    396        66    uI smvicE Raw PtR 19823
Ctn8  in Reserver                -1      38    -8        25                                    X
- increase)
Pblic Debt, iel. guranteed  11.6
M     umirmxhm Item                                             Nx-Qzteed Private Debt 
Total Odstading & Dishwrsed  11.6
Gross Tnt'l. Rervs               90      52    140    115
Cruks of Imports, f.o.b.)      (4.2)  (2.7)  (7.4)  (5.3)
Owreat A/C Bal. as Z GDP      -17.0  -21.6  -18.7   -8.9    IBm/IM  IEND]H, Sqetber 30, 1984
(Miflio US$)
RAM CF EMX,                                                                              IBRD  IDA
US$
Qrtstanduag & Disb-rsed  336.66  38.35       g
1980                         1.2682                            UIdisbursed              117.00  92.10
1981                         1.1466                            Cutstanding mncl.
1982                         1.0748                               Uhdsirsed             453.66  130.45
1983                         0.8083
1 Incuding  coatract salary and gratuitlis transfers.
2 Eixuding official grants and contract salary and gratuities transfers
3 Ratio of debt service on mLT debt, emuding arrears and 1MF repaybts, to exports of goods and
noa-factor services.
..not available                                                                        Septedber 1984



- 27 -                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Amount in US$ Million
(Less Cancellations)
Loan   Credit                                                                      Undisbursed
No.    No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank    IDA   Loan Credit
19 Loans fully
disbursed                                 400.22
1131             1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications         32.00            0.19
1424             1977   Zambia             Industrial Forestry    16.80              0.08
1566    798      1978   Zambia            Third Highway             11.25   11.25  11.25   9.24
863     1979   Zambia             Coffee Production                  6.00           0.75
873     1979   Zambia             Technical Assistance               5.00           2.56
1790    973      1980   Zambia             Third Railway            25.00   15.00  11.26   2.62
1923             1981   Development        Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company           15.00            1.43
2001             1981   Zambia             Eastern Province
Agric. Development       11.00            9.08
1193     1982   Zambia             Southern Province
Agric. Development               18.00          14.89
1196     1982   Zambia             Smallholder Dairy Dev.             7.50           6.10
1251     1982   Zambia             Fifth Education                   25.00          19.98
2151             1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Mining
Company           Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.  5.10              4.63
2152             1982   Zambia             Pet. Exploration Prom.  6.60              4.27
1333     1983   Zambia             Maamba Coal Eng.                   4.30           3.23
1362     1983   Zambia             Rural Water Supply                10.00           8.54
SF2       1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply                 6.00           4.67
1437     1984   Zambia             Ind. Forestry-PhaseIl             22.40          21.48
2391             1984   Zambia             Export Rehab. & Diver. 75.00             74.81
Total                                            597.97  130.45 117.00  92.10
of which has been repaid                        144.31      -
Total now outstanding                            453.66  130.45
Amounts sold                        28.58
of which has been repaid           28.58           -        _
Total now held by Bank/IDA                       453.66  130.45
-                    of which is undisbursed                          117.00   92.10
NOTES:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and eirculated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Credit 1529, approved on November 27, 1984, for the Fisheries Development Project, is
not yet effective.



- 28 -
ZAMBIA
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Investment                                                       USS Million Equivalent
No.      Year                       Type of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216-ZA     1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing       0.85   0.23    1.08
250-ZA     1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -      1.20
307-ZA     1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324-ZA     1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                  -     0.54    0.54
394-ZA     1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -       0.10
483-ZA     1979   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production              28.00    -     28.00
527-ZA     1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited     Textiles & Fibers        7.60    -      7.60
600-ZA     1981   Zambia Consoli-    Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                         27.03    -     27.03
709-ZA     1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism                 17.25   -      17.25
Total gross commitments                    82.81   0.98   83.79         9
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                   29.60   0.81   30.41
Total now held by IFC                      53.21   0.17   53.38
Total undisbursed                          34.82     -    34.82
NOTES: Investment No. 743-ZA for US$2.1 million equivalent in Mpongwe Development
Company Limited approved on June 12, 1984 was signed on October 8, 1984.



- 29 -               ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time take to prepare project:           12 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    Government/Zambia Railways
(c)  First presented to IDA:                 February 1983
(d)  Departure of the appraisal mission:   February 1984
Ce)  Negotiations:                           January 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          July 1985
II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
*II. Special Conditions
Ca) Government and ZR to obtain approval from the Association for any
capital investment during the project period in excess of US$2.0
million equivalent (para. 47).
(b) ZR not to incur any debt if its operating surplus would be less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement of any
succeeding fiscal year (para. 47).



ZAMBIA
EXISTING RAILWAY SY'
-----P..n.ocal Boundanei
, [ lo. 8                                       w  --IniurIM. onui Boundor.s         *
A   N   G O   L A   N        )      -                   Z A I R E      9
AN  GOL A                                                   ZAR
t \       N  O  RT   /,
_                         |   ii    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W    E                        T   E    '      -
K1..
*~~~~Kao I                  0         Nam-GIG
Zan.ber~~~~~~~~muobz
I'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
ANG  OLA -_.-  
_._- ~~~N  A  M I B  I A  vi9tn
-h8-, "                              tr / /BOEwAlLtij- M-nq,



IBRL) 14252RI
S - T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A N  ZA N I A
A.!,4-  iMur'u'nq- -MC                                         -.
,YSTEM                        l\s5t                                                                               A - 
-Roods  -         >E
F    .-1Roilwoys                         l   oI                                         ,, 
+     Airfields                  X                          }%                      n ;!    ~t                                    g10-
Swampser                          MwendO)Q                                                
\ /,o'- ,,wN O R T.~~~~ Ht E R NX                                                     '
To                i.-at"19                                                                                   H
:>t Lubumbesh"         iLtUA           P          iA      :w                     1t/r                          C         |
Mpoka{                       +   
-~~ bX   r  \-\   ~~~~~~-/1  \x~~~~   ~~   a;                        /1        a ~~~Lundz@
S             o~~~~Can   :rSh  S_a:
"COSPPERBELT ,  Ibo                                    i          g-_R                       tu;{'                                     <
fI                      i; a0 I   eei~                                                         J     
t~~~~~1                                                                                     )                t                Muao ;Cznwe
J         ,~~~~~ porlgw     _                                                       or<                         n
{   -   f   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~W _} / MchaMku3h.                \
r   <  fflKopiri Maoshl       t_          v                          /      cho02a    tt3t-                li@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1--
>      = -.   ~~C   ./    T  RA L                            '                      ,,U,                 , -' L.g
7--F. \~~ / ~ t M O Z A M, B I Q U E
; ^ g LUSAKS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fe,reFy_,_a ,_   
_    4 oag>           j_ a                                                                        EI  za ^s    E   u        @rJ 
) / ._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  SUCA%ENT^
Toa;spsoy R N .......... -- 8 -.- .... z I M B A B W E *,-_ l ,1__,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R WA 0 ^L_ 
M  Tk       O Pem        '     _ZA MFRE   '\ANAIA                                                                                             ,
Sinazongwo  /.05                                                  C               5                             r GoTSWANA-_-J           4
,r. .t                 o ~ ~~~~~ so      loo      ISO      200       25C                            Re 1:ESOo   -. .  
2b'                                    3!0                                    32'                                    3.
OF'OBERI 1 o



av.a
'N
OFT
r  C                 ~C
IZ
A'. _"4.                                  A
*                 ..jt                     ....
_ 



-.                  -K
--     Afl                                                    -
0          1
r                       -                                          v--n    L
/
-t
-,-I                   K                                  (I>
*                       F>  =  /                                 
-'I
-3
*   I                                            A'         -- m
)It-,                    .7
Nt   __                                         c4Ur                      /
.14'            'S    J                                    WA
II:s.. U
*1'                      'a
WI                                      -          k. &
.
b              4          0
C,,
..                                                          ___                  _________            _______
t              ______________________  _________________






